DRN-4145143
The complaint
Mr I complains about the settlement offered by Ageas Insurance Limited on a subsidence 
claim on his property insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr I held a property insurance policy with Ageas. Mr I purchased the property knowing there 
was an ongoing subsidence claim. And Ageas were also aware of the ongoing claim at the 
point Mr I purchased the property and the insurance policy. Part of the claim - the interior 
decorations  was cash settled by the previous owner.
It's widely accepted the property suffered from damage caused by subsidence. And its 
widely accepted Mr I has a valid claim. Whats in dispute is what needed to be done to settle 
that claim.
Mr I, through his representatives (which for ease of reading Ill refer to as simply, Mr I in most 
instances), says the bay window of the property needed to be rebuilt. Ageas on the other 
hand didnt think a rebuild of the bay was needed. It thought effective and lasting repairs 
could be carried out to the bay window.
Ultimately, Mr I paid for the bay window to be rebuilt. But Ageas didnt agree to pay for it all. 
It offered Mr I £7,617.75. It said this represented the cost of the repairs it would have 
authorised to be carried out.
Unhappy, Mr I brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended it be upheld. She thought based on the evidence, the bay 
window needed rebuilding. So, she recommended Ageas pay Mr I what it would have cost 
Ageas to carry out the rebuild.
Ageas didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman, it maintained a rebuild of the bay wasnt 
needed.
I issued a provisional decision which said I was thinking of upholding the complaint. It said:
Much of whats happened during this claim isnt in dispute. Its accepted there was 
subsidence, that it caused damage to the property and that Mr Is policy covers him 
for damage caused by subsidence. Its also accepted that the contents and 
decorations aspect of the claim was settled in cash with the previous homeowner.
Our investigator also didnt think there had been any unreasonable delays in 
progressing or deciding how to settle the claim. And both parties agreed to this  so 
Im not going to make further comment on that aspect of the complaint.
So, all that remains in dispute is what needs to be done to settle the claim  so thats 
what this decision will focus on.
Mr I says the bay window needed rebuilding  and ultimately this is what he paid to 
have done. He says Ageas originally drew up a schedule of works (SOW) for a 
complete rebuild, so thinks it also thought a rebuild was needed.
Ageas doesnt think a full rebuild is needed. It says there is pre-existing damage to 
the bay which isnt caused by subsidence.
Based on the evidence provided, Im more persuaded that a rebuild of the bay was 
necessary. Ageas was given three options to settle the claim by its loss adjuster. 
Those options were:
oPay for the cost of repair only. It said this would strictly be the extent of 
Ageass liability, but that it would be difficult because Mr I would struggle to 
get a contractor to guarantee the work.
oPay for the rebuild of the bay. It said this was ideal from an engineering point 
of view, but could be considered betterment, and beyond Ageass liability on 
the claim. But it said it could be argued this was enforced betterment.
oCome to an agreement with Mr I to agree a contribution to the rebuild.
Ultimately Ageas chose the first option. But, based on the evidence, Im more 
persuaded the second option is the fairer option in this case.
I appreciate there are other issues with the bay, and not all of these are caused by 
subsidence. But, if the subsidence damage in itself warrants a rebuild of the bay, 
then I think thats what Ageas needed to do.
Ageas need to carry out an effective and lasting repair. And based on the evidence, 
Im not persuaded restitching the bay, as it proposed, would have achieved that. This 
is because:
oMr Is contractor explained why they didnt think restitching would hold on the 
current bricks and mortar  and they explained that removing/replacing some 
bricks and mortar risked destabilising the bay causing it to collapse. Ageas 
hasnt really provided a detailed response to this other than it disagrees.
oAgeass loss adjuster acknowledges it would be difficult to get any contractor 
to guarantee the restitching work  which suggests it wouldnt be a lasting 
and effective repair.
oFurther, they note that previous attempts have been made to strap the bay 
and have subsequently corroded. Further suggesting that the proposed repair 
would not be lasting and effecting.
oAgeass loss adjuster explains the state of the masonry and that overall, 
rebuild should be considered. And noted this was the ideal engineering 
solution  suggesting it would be a lasting and effective solution.
oFurther, while other damage is noted, its not clearly noted that it is this 
damage, and not the damage caused by the subsidence that means a rebuild 
is needed. It says the majority of the problems have arisen because of the 
age of the building. But it doesnt clearly state that were it not for the subsidence, these issues would mean the bay needed rebuilding.
oWhereas Mr Is contractor says the opposite, clearly stating that the 
subsidence is the main cause of the damage.
In summary, Im more persuaded that a rebuild of the bay was the fair, effective and 
lasting solution to the damage caused by subsidence. I acknowledge there was 
existing damage to the bay, not caused by the subsidence. But Im not persuaded 
that it was this damage, and not the subsidence damage that warranted a rebuild of 
the bay.
Ageas always had the option to rebuild the bay, it chose not to. And while I can see 
why it did this (but ultimately dont agree it was the fair response), Mr I paid for and 
undertook the rebuild himself. Had Ageas chosen to carry out the rebuild, it would 
have had much better control of the costs. But it didnt, so the loss to Mr I, is what it 
cost him. So, to put things right Ageas need to pay Mr I what it cost him to rebuild the 
bay (excluding anything that could reasonably have been considered settled as part 
of the previous owners claim).
I said that without further arguments or evidence Id require Ageas to:
Pay Mr I what it cost him to rebuild the bay window.
oAgeas is entitled to deduct anything its already paid to Mr I as part of this 
claim from this payment.
oAgeas also need not pay anything that could reasonably be considered cash 
settled with the previous policyholder and homeowner.
o8% simple interest should be added to this payment. Interest should be 
calculated from the date Mr I paid for the work, to the date Ageas pays him.
Mr I agreed with my provisional decision, Ageas didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, because Ive received no new arguments or evidence to consider after 
sending my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from its findings or reasoning.
My final decision reflects that set out above in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr I what it cost him to rebuild the bay window.
oAgeas is entitled to deduct anything its already paid to Mr I as part of this 
claim from this payment.
oAgeas also need not pay anything that could reasonably be considered cash 
settled with the previous policyholder and homeowner.o8% simple interest should be added to this payment. Interest should be 
calculated from the date Mr I paid for the work, to the date Ageas pays him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman