DRN-2040952
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc charged him interest for a late payment and then charged 
him further interest after telling him not to make a payment whilst his complaint was being 
dealt with.
What happened
Mr S initially complained to TSB in 2018 that he had been charged interest on his credit card 
account following a cheque payment. He says he was advised by TSB staff not to make 
further payments towards this disputed interest amount while his complaint was ongoing. Mr 
S says the interest has now increased to over £650, and he has spoken to staff on a number 
of occasions about this.
TSB says Mr S made a payment in August 2018 by cheque that didn't clear in time. It says it 
didn't make a mistake by charging interest in those circumstances. But says it refunded the 
interest and applied 8% interest to that amount as a gesture of goodwill which it paid into Mr 
S's bank account.
Mr S says the money should have been paid into his credit card account and brought his 
complaint to us. We looked at the complaint and thought TSB hadn't made a mistake as Mr 
S didn't allow at least four working days for the cheque to clear. And in those circumstances 
in line with account terms and conditions was entitled to charge interest.
Mr S didn't accept that view and said his complaint point had been misunderstood and that 
he relied on TSB's advice not to pay the interest whilst this complaint was ongoing.
A second investigator looked at the complaint again and spoke to the TSB branch manager 
about Mr S's complaint. The investigator thought the manager accepted TSB had told Mr S 
not to make payments and that he had been misinformed. The investigator recommended 
TSB refund the interest, pay 8% simple interest on that amount and amend Mr S's credit file.
Mr S agrees with that view but TSB has asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view TSB hasn't dealt fairly with this complaint.
I'm satisfied that TSB didn't make a mistake by charging Mr S interest when his payment 
was late in August 2018. And that the account statements make clear the time period 
needed for cheques to clear. In those circumstances I don't think it clear why TSB took so 
long to look into Mr S's complaint or why it refunded interest as a gesture of goodwill. But I 
don't think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by continuing to charge Mr S interest.
The issue here is what Mr S was told by TSB staff about the interest that was building up on his account and if it was reasonable for him to follow that advice. I have listened to the call 
between the TSB branch manager and our investigator. And I'm satisfied that on a number 
of occasions the branch manager confirmed that Mr S had been misinformed and told not to 
pay the interest while this complaint was ongoing. The manager also accepted this was a 
mistake and that Mr S was correct in what he was saying about the advice he received. So 
I'm satisfied Mr S was given incorrect information about paying the interest and it was 
reasonable for him to take and act on that advice by not paying the interest.
I make clear that Mr S ought to have been told to pay the interest as he was clearly liable for 
it. But he was told the opposite and entitled to rely on that information. I can see that Mr S 
made regular account payments save for the interest which suggests further he relied on 
TSB's advice.
I'm satisfied that TSB should recalculate Mr S's account statements and put him back in the 
position he should have been in. TSB should remove the interest and will have to calculate if 
Mr S has paid any of it and in those circumstances refund that amount and add 8% simple 
interest. I accept the calculation may not be easy and I also think that TSB should remove 
any adverse data from Mr S's credit file if there has been any such data recorded.
Overall I accept TSB acted fairly by refunding interest in circumstances where it didn't need 
to and where it didn't make a mistake. But by doing so and by giving Mr S incorrect advice it 
has led to Mr S being unfairly treated.
Putting things right
TSB should recalculate Mr S's credit card statements by removing the interest from August 
2018 until to the present time and put him back in the position he would have been in at that 
time if the August 2018 payment had been made on time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to refund interest on Mr 
S's credit card account from August 2018 and if necessary pay 8% simple interest on any 
payments made towards any of the interest charged. TSB should provide Mr S with a 
certificate and details of any tax paid to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman