DRN-3057352
The complaint
Mr M (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC provided him with 
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr M took four home credit loans which Morses are responsible for between June 2013 and 
July 2015. A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from 
Morses can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly cost per 
loan
1 £300.00 14/06/2013 18/04/2014 50 £10.50
2 £500.00 18/04/2014 04/09/2014 50 £17.50
3 £500.00 24/12/2014 07/09/2015 50 £17.50
4 £500.00 29/07/2015 03/11/2015 34 £25.00
Mores has told this service that loans 1  3 were provided by Shopacheck and the final loan 
as provided by Morses. But based on our understanding Morses is responsible for all the 
loans listed above. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint about 
loans 1 - 3. But he did think by loan 4 that Mr M was committed to spending a significant 
portion of his come repaying loan 4. So, he upheld the complaint about this loan.
Mr M appears to have agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicator and it provided an example of a previous decision, 
which is said demonstrated why this case shouldnt have been upheld.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mr Ms complaint.
Loans 1 - 3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about these loans, and Mr M doesnt appear 
to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further about these loans, or the level of 
individual checks Morses completed before approving them, as I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about it. 
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about Mr Ms overall lending relationship 
with Morses. 
Loan 4 
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint about this loan, because in his view, Mr M was 
committed to paying Morses a significant portion of his declared income and that led this 
loan being unsustainable for him. Taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
case, I agree with the adjudicator and Ive explained why below. 
When loan 4 was approved, Mr M seems to have declared a drop in his weekly income 
compared to loan 3. His income had dropped from around £300 per week to £250 per week. 
His weekly outgoings also significantly dropped, from £150 for loan 3 to £67.50 for loan 4. And of that £67.50 - £17.50 of that sum were repayments Mr M was committed to paying 
Morses for loan 3. 
So, by loan 4, Morses was aware, based on what Mr M declared, that his income was being 
squeezed, and actually, I dont think £50 a week for living costs is likely to be reasonable, 
when some months before he declared a sum which was three times that sum. And Ive 
seen no indication that his circumstances had changed. So, its likely his living costs were 
significantly more than Morses recorded. 
I also cant ignore the fact that Mr Ms indebtedness wasnt decreasing, loans 2  4 were all 
for the same capital value. In addition to this, Morses was aware Mr M had been indebted for 
the majority of the previous 25 months. And loan 4 was extending that indebtedness for an 
additional 34 weeks. At the same time as having the largest weekly repayments due. 
So Morses, knew with a smaller weekly income Mr M was committed was paying £25 per 
week  each week for 33 weeks. But, loan 3 was still outstanding, and while Morses appear 
to have factored in the repayments for loan 3 in Mr Ms affordability assessment, he was 
committing to paying £42.50 each week for a significant period of time. 
So, there was a picture of Mr Ms overall indebtedness not decreasing and his weekly 
repayments were now at the largest they had been during the entire lending relationship. 
When, at the same time Morses was aware his income had dropped.
Morses ought to have realised that Mr M there was a significant risk that he wasnt going to 
be able to fully meet his existing commitments in a sustainable manner. Which has led me to 
conclude that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably make his weekly repayments for his 
fourth loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement* and
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman