DRN-4037024
The complaint
Mr C complains about the price he has had to pay over several years to Tesco Underwriting 
Limited (Tesco) to renew his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C received a quote to renew his policy which he says was significantly cheaper than 
previous years, so he called Tesco to find out why. Mr C says Tesco explained there had 
previously been a claim made under the policy which remained a risk consideration, but this 
was now removed. Mr C complained as he felt hed been unfairly charged more over the last 
10 years. Tesco responded and explained they consider a range of factors such as claim 
statistics in the area, trends in insurance generally, and how the policy information compares 
to this. Tesco explained they sent this information every year to try and keep Mr C in an 
informed position regarding the price but, with hindsight, they agreed they couldve done 
more in this area. They said they cant agree the prices theyve charged have been incorrect, 
but Tesco accepted they didnt take the opportunity to speak with Mr C in detail about the 
renewal price for some time. Tesco felt they couldve made more effort to discuss this with 
Mr C so they offered a partial refund of the premiums paid in the sum of £807. They also 
offered £100 compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought Tesco hadnt treated Mr C unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I think it will help if I firstly 
set out the premiums Mr C has paid to Tesco since they started underwriting his policy.  
Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Premium £388.03 £383.48 £457.15 £500.73 £629.77 £593.27
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Premium £857.72 £1,170.36 £1,229.09 £1,052.20 £933.74 £264.93
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. 
But we can look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there 
anything which demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think 
someone has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this 
unfairness.
That said, I do understand why Mr C became concerned when receiving a quote for his 2022 
renewal. Its significantly less than what he paid the previous year, and the previous few 
years. Tesco have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Cs premiums were calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premiums he has 
been quoted have been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
Tesco customers in Mr Cs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
 
I acknowledge Mr Cs concern about the significant reduction in the 2022 price. Tescos 
have explained the reason for this relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor 
and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules 
when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated 
from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr C was offered his 2022 renewal by 
Tesco, so they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the 
information provided shows Mr C hasnt been charged more than the ENBP - I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price. 
Tesco have also provided information which shows how they rate a claim on the policy. I can 
see that Mr C had a claim on his policy and Tesco have explained the period of time claims 
remain on a policy for the purpose of risk ratings. I can see, for the 2022 renewal, the claim 
was no longer taken into consideration for rating the risk and therefore no longer had an 
impact on the price. So, taking this into account, together with Tescos change in approach 
to be compliant with the pricing rules, I understand why the 2022 premium was significantly 
lower than previous years and I cant say theyve made an error in relation to the 2022 
renewal  or that the premium for previous years was unfair because of this.  
Turning now to the price for the previous years. Ill start by saying, its for a business to 
decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - 
different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher 
premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but 
rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk. Ive seen the 
breakdown for each years premium and I cant say Tesco have made an error here. As I've 
said, I cannot share all the information Mr C would likely want to see to understand why his 
premiums were higher in previous years. One reason is that, following a claim being made 
on Mr Cs policy, this remained as a risk rating for a certain number of years and was taken 
into account by Tesco when rating Mr Cs policy. Its not unusual or uncommon for insurers 
to take this approach and Tesco explain a claim has an impact on the premium as the 
likelihood of the customer claiming again is greatly increased. 
I can see Mr C believes Tesco have charged him higher premiums in previous years in an 
attempt to recoup the settlement they paid out for his claim. I acknowledge Mr C is worried 
about this, but I wish to reassure him that isnt the case from the information Ive seen. 
Tesco have provided information which shows the settlement amount paid for Mr Cs claim 
and this does far exceed the increase in premiums following the claim settlement. So, this 
shows Tesco arent attempting to recover the settlement paid but rather the increase in 
premium reflects the increased risk based on there having been a previous claim. And the fact that the price of the policy is significantly reduced when the claim falls off the risk rating 
in the 2022 renewal, further persuades me this is the case.    
I can see Mr C engaged with Tesco in May 2014 to discuss his renewal price and a discount 
was applied to the price quoted. Mr C engaged with Tesco again in May 2016 to discuss his 
renewal price and a discount was applied to the price quoted. There was further 
engagement in September 2018 during which Mr C explained he wasnt happy with the 
renewal quote but, as this was mid-term through the policy year, Tesco explained they 
couldnt now amend the price. The note of this call says Mr C was aware he could cancel the 
policy or set up a new business policy with Tesco which could offer him a better price. So, 
given Mr C has engaged with Tesco about the price quoted  and he has received discounts 
in two years  I cant say Tesco unfairly increased Mr Cs premium each year because of a 
lack of engagement. 
 
In addition to this, I can see Tesco did remind Mr C that he could shop around to see if he 
could get a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide 
specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr C fairly, I 
think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I acknowledge why Mr C has, understandably, questioned why he has received a refund of a 
portion of his previous premiums when Tesco say they havent made an error in pricing his 
policy. And this is particularly so given that the refund amount of £807 appears to be a very 
specific figure. But I wish to reassure Mr C that Ive seen how this figure was calculated and, 
while I cant share the exact breakdown with Mr C, Im satisfied this doesnt show an error 
was made by Tesco in the premiums quoted. Tesco confirm they made an error in the 
wording of their complaint response when saying they shouldve engaged more with Mr C. 
They say the £907 offer was made as a gesture of goodwill and not in recognition of any 
error on their part as Mr C did engage with them about the premiums. Tesco have confirmed 
theyve paid Mr C £907 directly to his bank account as a gesture of goodwill  and I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.    
I wish to reassure Mr C Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman