DRN-1650104
 
The complaint
 This is a complaint by Mr W1 and the estate of Mr W2 that Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS) mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W1 and Mr W2 took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. The policy was paid for by 
a monthly premium and covered Mr W1 and Mr W2s loan repayments on a 50:50 basis if 
one of them wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W1 and the estate of Mr W2 disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr W1 says he doesnt have much recollection of the PPI sale and thinks that YBS misled 
Mr W2 and himself into thinking that they needed to take the cover out to get their mortgage.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr W1 genuinely thinks this is what happened. But I need to 
bear in mind that this sale took place some twenty-eight years ago and memories do tend to 
fade over such long periods of time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to rely wholly on 
what Mr W1 thinks he remembers Mr W2 and himself being told then. I need to look at all the 
evidence available to me, including what I know about similar sales, to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened.
YBS has provided a copy of Mr W1 and Mr W2 mortgage application. This has a section in it 
headed Payment Protection. And I can see that the words Please Quote have been 
handwritten in this section. And I think its most likely that these words were added after a 
discussion about the PPI policy, during which Mr W1 and Mr W2 expressed an interest to a 
YBS representative in having this type of cover and agreed to YBS providing a quotation for 
this. Mr W1 says that, the application wasnt completed in his or Mr W2s handwriting and 
this may well have been the case. But I dont think its that likely that the YBS agent would 
have written this on the form unless Mr W1 and Mr W2 had agreed they would like to receive 
a quote for PPI cover. And I also dont think its likely  as Mr W1 has suggested might have 
happened  that a YBS representative wrongly added these words after theyd both signed 
the application form.
Ive also seen a copy of a joint PPI application form which was completed and signed some 
two weeks after the mortgage application. And I think that its most likely that this application was completed by Mr W1 and Mr W2 after theyd been provided with a PPI quotation by YBS 
and decided to take the policy. Mr W1 says that the two signatures of the second mortgage 
borrower required at the bottom of the form are not his and must have been added by 
someone else. I can see that the signatures of Mr W2  the first mortgage borrower - are 
reasonably clear and easy to make out on the form. But the signatures of the second 
mortgage borrower are very faint and difficult to make out. But Ive no real reason to think 
that Mr W1 wouldnt have jointly signed the form with Mr W2 and that someone else wrongly 
signed the form in two places on his behalf. So, on balance, I think that its most likely that 
both Mr W1 and Mr W2 did sign the form agreeing to the PPI policy and that Mr W1 is 
mistaken in thinking that the signatures arent his own.
I do accept that its still possible that a YBS representative wrongly misled Mr W1 and Mr W2 
into thinking that they needed to agree to the PPI policy to get their mortgage. But I dont 
think from what Ive seen that this is what is most likely to have happened. I think its more 
likely that Mr W1 and Mr W2 knew at the time that they had a choice about taking this cover 
and actively decided to do so. But I can understand why Mr W1 may not be able to 
remember this now.
YBS says that this was a non-advised PPI sale. And from what I know of its practices at 
around this time I dont think that YBS did provide Mr W1 and Mr W2 with a recommendation 
to buy the policy which was tailored to their specific circumstances. This means YBS didnt 
have to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. But it did need to give 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 enough information about the policy so that they could decide if it was 
right for them and that they wanted to buy it.
I think its possible that the information YBS gave to Mr W1 and Mr W2 wasnt as good as it 
could have been. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information would have changed their minds about buying it. I say this because:
 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions and limitations.
 
Mr W1 says they didnt really need the policy because they had other means of 
making their mortgage repayments if one of them couldnt work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. But this policy would have paid out for up to 
twelve months and in addition to any other means that might have been available to 
them at the time. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where ones 
home is potentially at risk if the repayments cant be made. So, having carefully 
considered what I know about Mr W1 and Mr W2s circumstances at the time, I think 
they would still have valued the extra security the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr W1 and Mr W2. And as a 
monthly premium policy, they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their needs. 
Mr W1 says a standard letter - confirming the policy had been set up and providing 
cancellation rights  was wrongly addressed to Mr W2 and Mrs W2, rather than to 
Mr W2 and himself. And I can see that this is the case. But Ive no real reason to 
think that Mr W2 wouldnt have shared the letters contents with Mr W2. And in any 
case, whether Mr W2 saw the letter or not wouldnt affect my decision on this mis-
sale complaint. 
 So I dont think that Mr W1 and the estate of the late Mr W2 have lost out by anything that 
YBS did wrong when it sold Mr W1 and Mr W2 this policy.
Ive thought about all the reasons Mr W1 has given for not agreeing with the adjudicators 
view. But, having done so, none of these have made me think I should change my mind 
about not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman