DRN-4515932
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded the losses it 
incurred when it was the victim of an invoice interception scam.
What happened
D holds a business account with HSBC. In October 2021, D received a request for payment 
of invoices which appeared to have come from one of Ds established suppliers. 
The email correspondence was part of a chain of prior emails. It asked D to make remittance 
for invoices using new bank account details. When Ds accountant attempted to add the new 
payment details to their HSBC account, an error message resulted. D emailed the supplier 
back to confirm the details, then sent the payment.
Four payments were made to the specified account, on 18 October and 5 November. These 
payments apparently were made between sterling denominated accounts but were sent 
using the SWIFT payment mechanism in Euros. In total this amounted to £41,198.76.
D subsequently received an email from the genuine supplier asking for payment at which 
point it came to light that the earlier emails hadnt been legitimate. 
D reported the scam to HSBC. HSBC attempted to recover the funds that D had lost, but 
only a nominal sum remained to be recovered. It didnt refund D, explaining that D had 
authorised these payments and HSBC had carried out Ds instructions. These payments 
hadnt been particularly unusual or suspicious compared to Ds usual account activity. HSBC 
was not liable for the loss due to the scam. D didnt accept this outcome. 
Our Investigator reviewed what had happened. She explained that the payments werent 
within the scope of the Lending Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code) because that didnt apply to SWIFT transfer payments. 
However, the Investigator thought HSBC ought to have identified that the first payment was 
significantly out of character and unusual for D. On that basis HSBC ought to have 
intervened prior to processing the payment instruction, and had it done so should have 
prompted D to take steps to verify the payment through another channel  thereby 
preventing the scam and resultant losses.
HSBC didnt agree, arguing in response that the payment was not one requiring it to have 
taken these steps. As a result, the matter was referred to me to review everything afresh and 
reach a final decision. 
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Ds complaint on 15 November 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Ds complaint and offered both 
sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that 
decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached a provisional 
finding that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, is that HSBC is 
not liable to refund the losses D sustained through this scam. I will explain why.
Both sides accept that D was the victim of a scam and has lost a significant sum as a 
result. What needs to be determined here is whether HSBC should reasonably be held 
liable for the amount that was lost to the scam.
As a starting point in law, HSBCs primary obligation to carry out correctly authorised 
payment instructions given to it by its customers, and to do so without delay. D is 
therefore responsible for the payments it instructed HSBC to make for it.
However, that isnt the end of the story. As a matter of good industry practice, Id expect 
HSBC to have been on the lookout for significantly unusual or out of character 
transactions that might be indicative of the risk of loss through fraud or scam.
Here HSBC says that the relevant transactions werent significantly unusual for D. It 
therefore had no reason not to carry out its primary obligation to process the payment 
instructions it was given.
Ive considered whether this was reasonable in the circumstances. I find it relevant that 
Ds account was a business account. And I accept HSBCs point that the pattern of 
typical usage on a business account might typically be expected to differ from that of a 
consumer account.
Looking at the payment history here, I can see D had made several international transfer 
payments within the previous year. These ranged in value, with the largest (presumably 
legitimate) payment being for the sum of around £11,000. The fact that the scam 
payments were made as international payments wouldnt on the face of it have seemed 
unusual for Ds account.
I dont consider that the first payment of £17,166.87 was significantly different to this 
amount. While the payment was larger than the prior international payments, I dont 
consider it was larger to an extent that ought to have caused HSBC particular concern  
it was not a remarkable sum in the context of Ds other account usage.
Of course, there is one aspect that was unusual. The start and end points of these 
payments were sterling denominated accounts and UK based. It would therefore be less 
usual for a payment between two such accounts to have been made using SWIFT rather 
than the Faster Payments system.
However, I dont consider that in itself that would be sufficient reason for HSBC to have 
refused the instructions. Its not clear that it would (or could) have known that the 
destination account would be sterling denominated. So, I cant fairly say the bank ought 
to have been concerned about this when the payment was being made using SWIFT.
The third payment was for a slightly larger sum, £22,198.90. However, for similar 
reasons as above, while this was larger than prior payments, I dont consider it was 
significantly larger to the extent that it should have concerned HSBC.
In summary then, I dont find the evidence here leads me to conclude that HSBC was at fault for not blocking or delaying any of these payments and intervening before it would 
allow them to be made. There simply wasnt enough reason for HSBC to have taken that 
step. 
When HSBC was made aware of the scam it attempted to recover the funds from the 
recipient bank, but little remained. It appears that the funds had largely been removed 
before the scam came to light.
I know this will not be the answer D wants me to give, but I dont find HSBC was at fault 
here. I therefore cant fairly hold it liable to refund D for the losses incurred through this 
scam. HSBC was obligated to carry out Ds payment instructions and there wasnt 
sufficient reason for it to have done otherwise.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont find HSBC is responsible for the 
losses D suffered here and it doesnt need to refund D.
In my provisional decision, I asked both sides to provide any further arguments or 
information by 12 December 2023, after which point, I said I would issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC did not provide a substantive response to my provisional conclusions. 
D responded to the provisional decision saying it didnt agree this was a fair outcome. In 
summary, D said:
- It thought the payments were enough out of character in terms of amount and being 
a new payee that HSBC should have carried out additional fraud checks. The highest 
foreign payment D had made in the prior six months was for around £11,000.
- This should have been identified by HSBC as both a sudden increase in spending 
and a payment to a new payee
- The payment being to another UK account but not in sterling should have also 
prompted concerns. HSBC would have definitely known the beneficiary account was 
a Sterling denominated account.
- Based on these factors the payment should have been flagged as potentially 
fraudulent and HSBC should have investigated further to prevent the fraud.
I have considered Ds further representations. But Im not persuaded that these change the 
outcome I reached or the reasons for that. While I appreciate that the referenced payment 
was larger than the earlier international transfer D had made, I dont consider the difference 
was sufficient to have prompted concern on HSBCs part  even allowing for this being the 
first payment to that beneficiary account. 
In considering the actions of HSBC I need to take into account that the banks primary 
obligation is to carry out payment instructions given by its customers and to do so without 
delay. That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Id expect a bank such as HSBC to 
intervene, and thus delay the payment, where there is sufficient reason to believe the 
payment is likely to result in loss through fraud or scam. But any such expectation has to be 
balanced against the banks primary obligation. The bank cannot unduly interfere with 
legitimate payment instructions (which of course, the vast majority of payment instructions 
will be). This is a difficult balance to strike. If a bank was to delay a payment instruction 
which turned out to have been wholly legitimate in nature, then its business customer incur suffer a financial or reputational loss  and HSBC could risk a claim that it was in breach of 
mandate. 
Based on the evidence available to me here, I dont find HSBC was at fault in relation to 
these payments.
The beneficiary account wasnt held by HSBC so it would not have known the details of that 
account  including whether it was denominated in Euros or in Sterling. The fact of a 
beneficiary account having a UK sort-code does not require that it is Sterling denominated. 
I have not seen any evidence HSBC would have known the account was a Sterling account, 
and I do not consider that was a factor HSBC could have taken into consideration.
In short, I do not find HSBC is liable to refund D for these payments, and I consider that 
outcome to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for the reasons I have set out. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I do not uphold Ds complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman