DRN-1936449
 
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of company M, complains about the operation of the business account with 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr S opened a business account on behalf of company M with 
Cashplus. A few days later, around £10,000 was transferred into the account in two separate 
transactions. Mr S found he couldnt use his online mobile banking application or access the 
money in the account. He says this caused disruption to his business. Cashplus decided to 
carry out a review on the account but they didnt tell Mr S.
A few days later, Mr S opened another account with a different bank and called Cashplus to 
ask if the money could be transferred into that account. The advisor Mr S spoke to told him 
the money would be transferred by the end of the day. However, the review was still taking 
place. Following the review, Cashplus decided to return the money from Ms account back to 
the original sender  which they advised could take up to 30 days. Therefore, the money 
wasnt transferred to Ms alternative account as Mr S had asked. The money was returned to 
source a couple of weeks later.
Mr S complained. He said hed spent time and money trying to sort out the problem and said 
hed lost several customers from his new business because he couldnt access the money in 
the account. Cashplus admitted Mr S shouldnt have been told the transfer to Ms alternative 
account could have been made  so they offered him £50 compensation. Mr S didnt accept 
this and brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator said it was reasonable Cashplus carried out a review on a new account and 
they were entitled to do that. He didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays and 
thought the £50 compensation was a fair amount of compensation for the misinformation Mr 
S was told.
Mr S remained unhappy. He said nobody told him about the review taking place and he 
hadnt received the £50 compensation. The complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Cashplus are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
business relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Cashplus was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when it reviewed Ms account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong. I appreciate Cashplus didnt tell Mr S about their review  but theyre not 
obliged to.
I havent been able to listen to the phone call between Mr S and Cashplus when Mr S was 
told the money could be transferred to Ms other account. But Cashplus has admitted Mr S 
was given the wrong information so I dont think the phone call is relevant. Ive thought about 
the offer of £50 compensation and I think it fairly reflects the inconvenience of Mr S being 
misinformed. So, I wont be asking Cashplus to pay anything further. Im also aware the 
investigator asked Cashplus to pay the compensation as Mr S told us M hadnt received it.
Ive looked at the time Cashplus took to review things. I understand it was just over two 
weeks from M receiving the money in the account and the money being returned to source. I 
dont think this is an unreasonable time frame, especially as Cashplus has explained they 
use a third-party provider to facilitate payments in and out of their accounts. I appreciate the 
problems M faced with some customers, and Im really sorry to hear these caused difficulties 
for Mr S new company. But as Ive found Cashplus were entitled to carry out the review, and 
there werent any unnecessary delays, I cant say theyve done anything wrong. Im also 
pleased to hear M hasnt faced any difficulties with the alternative bank account Mr S 
opened.
Ive no doubt Mr S, on behalf of M, had a frustrating and worrying time throughout this 
situation. But overall, based on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say Cashplus have acted 
unreasonably. So, I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
M, to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman