DRN-1888822
 
The complaint
Mr C complains as he is unhappy with how a claim on his home emergency policy was 
handled by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr C had problems with his kitchen tap. He contacted Aviva who sent out a contractor. Mr C 
was told that the problem was not covered by his policy, so no work was carried out.
When Mr C contacted Aviva, it agreed the fault was covered and a further contractor was 
sent out, who removed the tap with an angle grinder. This caused damage to his sink and 
some small metal shards to be spread across the kitchen. Mr C said a number of these 
entered the drinking water system via the exposed pipe, as well as contaminating food and 
other equipment.
Mr C contacted Aviva who advised him to flush the tap through by running the water. The 
contractor returned later the same day but because it was dark, he was unable to see any 
metal in the water. 
Two further contractors visited Mr C, and on both occasions said his water was safe to drink. 
As Mr C did not agree, Aviva sent a manager who changed the tap and checked the water 
supply again. Aviva was satisfied that this, along with flushing the pipe for a substantial time, 
would resolve the issue.
Mr C sent a sample of water to his water supply company. It tested it and said the result was 
inconclusive.
Mr C complained to Aviva. It acknowledged the service it had provided wasnt good enough. 
It paid Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused through the handling of the 
claim, and having to make a repeat visit. It also paid £382 towards replacing the sink due to 
the damage it caused.
Mr C complained to our service. He didnt think Aviva had solved the contaminated water 
supply issue, and the compensation given didnt reflect the health and safety issues its 
contractor had caused.
Our investigator thought that Aviva had been fair in its level of compensation. And in the 
absence of any evidence to show there was continued contamination of the water supply, 
she didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He thought his water system was still contaminated as a result of Avivas 
actions. And the health and safety failings constituted significant wrongdoing. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there are differing opinions, I need to decide which are more persuasive, and what I 
think is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities based on the evidence 
I do have. 
It is not disputed that Aviva made an error when it originally declined the claim. And it is also 
not disputed that when the tap was removed, damage was caused to the sink, and metal 
fragments were spread over the kitchen. I need to determine whether Avivas decision to not 
do anything more in relation to the quality of the water supply was reasonable, and whether 
it was fair in the level of compensation it paid Mr C.
Aviva sent out a contractor on three occasions after the first visit. And on each occasion they 
were unable to see any metal fragments in the water. It also advised Mr C to run the tap for 
a long time to flush any possible contamination through, and again changed the tap. Mr C 
sent a sample of the water to his water supply company. It tested it but was unable to say 
conclusively that there was any contamination. 
Mr C has said he has had to buy drinking water since, and that he has suffered serious 
health issues as a result of whats happened. But I cant fairly say Aviva is responsible for 
this as I dont think there is conclusive evidence to say his water is contaminated. And I think 
Avivas actions to respond to his concerns, and its decision to not do anything more, was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I can understand Mr Cs distress, when firstly he was incorrectly told that the fault to his tap 
was not covered by his policy, and then to have damage caused to his sink and metal 
fragments spread over his kitchen when the tap was replaced. However, Aviva has 
acknowledged this and paid him £382 to replace the sink, and £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him. This is in line with what I would have required Aviva to do.
Given all the above, I am satisfied that Aviva was fair and reasonable in its handling of 
Mr Cs concern over water contamination, and the level of compensation they have given.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman