DRN-3021400
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D was involved in a traffic accident in which his car was badly 
damaged. He was dissatisfied in a number of respects with the way AXA dealt with his claim. 
AXA has resolved some of the issues to Mr Ds satisfaction. But in March 2021 Mr D told us 
the following aspects of his complaint remained outstanding:
1. AXA allowed Mr Ds car to be stolen while it was in its care and Mr D was unhappy 
with AXAs attitude while he sought to resolve the situation.
2. AXA or its agent removed a theft marker from his cars records before paying him for 
it.
3. AXA incorrectly told Mr Ds current insurance provider that he didnt have any no 
claims bonus (NCB) even though he had 20 years NCB on another policy.
4. AXA hasnt listened to his complaints about poor service and communication, and it 
continues to act in an unprofessional manner.
Mr D also said he was unhappy that AXA still hadnt resolved his claim six months after the 
date of the accident, and that it had wanted him to accept 30% of the liability. He believes 
this was just to make AXAs life easier, and to save it from having to pursue the other driver 
for 100% liability. Our investigator explained to Mr D that he would need to raise a separate 
complaint about liability and ongoing service issues.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint about the remaining issues should be upheld. 
In summary, she didnt think Mr Ds car had been stolen. Rather, she thought it had been 
sold earlier than it should have been by mistake. She hadnt seen anything to show that a 
theft marker had ever been recorded against Mr Ds car. And even if a theft marker had been 
recorded and subsequently removed, she couldnt fairly conclude that this was AXAs 
responsibility. 
The investigator thought that the reason Mr Ds premium for his car insurance with his new 
provider had increased was because the claim with AXA was still outstanding, not because 
AXA had recorded incorrect information about Mr Ds NCB. And she thought AXA had dealt 
fairly and reasonably with the issues that Mr D had raised about its communication and 
service. So she couldnt ask it to do more. She explained that her view only related to issues 
up to 24 February 2021, and that if Mr D had any further issues after that date, they would 
need to be dealt with as a separate complaint.
Mr D wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why, taking each of the complaint 
points in turn.
1.AXA allowed Mr Ds car to be stolen while it was in its care and Mr D was unhappy with 
AXAs attitude while he sought to resolve the situation 
Mr Ds car was badly damaged in the accident. AXAs engineer said the car was written 
off. AXA valued Mr Ds car and eventually paid him a settlement. AXA told Mr D that he 
would remain the legal owner of the car until his claim was settled and he sent it the log 
book. So I can understand how Mr D would have been shocked and annoyed when he 
received a letter from the DVLA telling him that someone had applied for a new logbook 
for the car. At that point no settlement had been agreed for the car, and Mr D still had the 
logbook.
It turned out that AXAs agent had sold the car. Mr D complained to it. When it said it 
couldnt buy him a new car, as he requested, he said hed report the car to the police as 
stolen again. The conversation was heated, and Mr D said that they wouldnt get away 
with stealing his car. The advisor said thats absolutely fine and referred Mr D back to 
AXA.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ds car was sold without his permission, and before a settlement 
had been agreed. But having looked carefully at all the evidence thats been provided, 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that this was anything other than a mistake. Of 
course it shouldnt have happened. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that any dishonesty 
was involved.
Ive borne in mind that although Mr D initially wanted to keep his car after the accident, 
he told AXA that he no longer wanted to keep the car, as he couldnt be sure how well it 
had been repaired. 
AXA paid Mr D £200 to apologise for the fact that his car had been sold before a 
settlement had been made. And it gave feedback to its agent about the way it had dealt 
with Mr D and his car. I think thats reasonable to reflect the trouble and stress caused to 
Mr D by the fact that his car was sold earlier than it should have been, and to apologise 
for the inappropriate tone adopted by the agents advisor. So I dont consider that I can 
fairly require AXA to do more in respect of this part of Mr Ds complaint.
2.AXA removed a theft marker from Mr Ds cars record before paying him for it.
Mr D told AXA that the company that sold the car told him that AXA had removed a theft 
marker on the vehicle history report (HPI check) for his car. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call and acknowledge that AXAs agent told Mr D that 
AXA had cleared the theft marker. But Ive examined an HPI check for Mr Ds car. It 
shows various details about the car correctly. But theres no indication that a theft marker 
was ever registered against the car. Im aware that Mr D has mentioned that he has a 
screenshot of an HPI check showing a stolen marker against the car. But he doesnt 
appear to have provided us with a copy of this. So based on the evidence provided, 
I cant fairly conclude that AXA removed any theft maker from the record.AXA has apologised for the fact that the business which sold his car told him, incorrectly, 
that AXA had removed a theft marker from the cars HPI records, and that it considered 
his complaint resolved. And it paid him £100 to apologise for this. I think what AXA has 
done to resolve this, along with what its done in response to point 1 above is reasonable 
in all the circumstances. So I cant recommend that AXA should do more to resolve this 
part of Mr Ds complaint. 
3.AXA incorrectly told Mr Ds current insurance provider that he didnt have any no claims 
bonus (NCB) even though he had 20 years NCB on another policy.
Mr Ds told us that his new insurer implied that hed lied on his insurance application. He 
believes that AXA told his new insurer that he didnt have any NCB, even though he has 
20 years NCB on another policy. Mr D says the result was that the amount he had to pay 
for insurance with his new insurer was significantly more than it would have been.
When Mr D took out insurance with his new provider, his claim with AXA was still open. 
An insurer will usually record a claim as a fault claim unless and until it recovers all its 
costs from the other party. This is the case regardless of whether the insured was in fact 
at fault for the incident. Even where the insured was entirely without fault for the incident, 
the claim will usually be recorded as a fault claim while the insurer is still waiting to 
recover all its costs. In situations where the full costs are subsequently recovered, the 
record is changed to show the claim as non-fault.
So its true that when Mr D applied for his new insurance, the claim with AXA will have 
been showing as open on is record at the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
And its likely that it was the outstanding claim that led to the premium for his new 
insurance policy increasing. But I dont think this was because of anything AXA did 
wrong. It had a duty to record accurate information.
AXA has acknowledged that it could have proactively chased the other party involved in 
the accident for updates. But I cant fairly assume that if had done so, the fault claim 
would no longer have been showing on Mr Ds insurance record when he applied for his 
new insurance. AXAs paid Mr D £100 to apologise for not having been as proactive as it 
could have been in following up with the other party and I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable.
4.AXA hasnt listened to Mr Ds complaints about poor service and communication, and it 
continues to act in an unprofessional manner.
AXA has made a number of compensation payments to Mr D for various aspects of his 
complaint. Im satisfied that it has looked thoroughly into Mr Ds complaints about poor 
service and communication, and that its taken them seriously. I consider that its 
apologised to Mr D where appropriate. 
I realise that Mr D feels strongly that AXA have let him down. But having looked carefully 
at everything thats been provided, I havent found any aspect of Mr Ds complaint for 
which I can fairly require AXA to do more than its already done.
Mr D has also mentioned that hes dissatisfied that AXA have asked him to accept 30% 
liability for the accident even though it wasnt his fault. Our investigator explained that at the 
point when AXA provided its final response to Mr Ds complaint in February 2021, the claim 
was still open. If Mr D has any complaint about the apportionment of liability for the accident 
or the way AXA handled his claim after 24 February 2021, when it issued its final response 
to this complaint, he will need to raise it as a new complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman