DRN-2205821
The complaint
Ms B complains S.D. Taylor Limited (trading as Loans at Home (LAH)) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms B took four home credit loans between November 2017 and July 2018. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
dateactual 
repayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
amount per 
loan
1 £750.00 15/11/2017 02/05/2018 30 £30.00
2 £750.00 14/03/018 outstanding 78 £19.55
3 £1,150.00 02/05/2018 outstanding 78 £29.90
4 £250.00 04/07/2018 outstanding 45 £10.00
Ms B has had some problems repaying her final three loans and when the complaint was 
referred to this service an outstanding balance remained. 
  
LAH reviewed Ms Bs complaint and it felt that it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
provided all of her loans because the information it gathered suggested Ms B would be able 
to afford the repayments, she was committed to making. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms B brought her complaint to our service.
 
Our adjudicator didnt think LAH had made an error when it approved the first loan. But she 
didnt think LAH shouldve approved loan 2, or any future loans, because the repayments Ms 
B was committed to making took up a significant portion of her income.
 
LAH disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, it made a number of points 
including: 
Ms B was required to use around 15% of her income to repay the combined 
repayment for loan 1 and 2 and LAH thinks this is affordable, 
LAH took into account the fact that Ms B had loan 1 outstanding when it was looking 
at her expenditure for loan 2,
according to the credit report it was aware that there were no other creditors and her 
expenditure did fluctuate, but this is to be expected and
Ms B took advantage of a refinance option when loan 3 was taken. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With all of this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint. And having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that loans 2  4 should be upheld, for much of the same reasons.
The loan repayment required represented a significant proportion of Ms Bs monthly income. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Ms B wouldnt have been able to 
repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further. Based on what LAH knew before 
this loan was approved, Ms B was already committed to spending just under 50% of her 
weekly declared income, before this loan repayment was taking into account. 
This this was reflected, in what happened after loan two was taken within a couple of weeks 
of taking the loan, Ms B was in arrears (albeit she does appear to have been making weekly 
repayments but these dont appear to have been sufficient to stop the account accruing 
arrears) and then the arrears suddenly accelerated in September 2018.And a similar pattern happened for the later loans. Loan 2, was already seeing weekly 
arrears when loan 3 was approved (on the same day as loan 1 was repaid). And for loan 3, 
LAH already knew that Ms B was already committed to spending around 70% of her income 
on living costs and loan repayments  before taking into account the repayment for loan 3. 
Again, I dont think this was sustainable. 
And for each later loan Ms B was having to repay greater sums to LAH - £49.45 for loan 3 
and then £59.45 for loan 4. In my view, while Ms Bs income increased (along with 
fluctuations in her expenditure) still meant, in my view, she was committed to repaying LAH 
a significant portion of her income. Therefore, there was a risk these loans werent 
sustainable for her. Indeed, from the start of September, there seems to have been an 
increase in the arrears on all of the accounts. 
I appreciate that LAH doesnt consider 15% to be a significant amount of Ms Bs income. 
But, theres clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for a 
firm to lend, but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual 
complaint. And whilst a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that 
something has gone wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader 
circumstances of each case. 
I agree with LAH that it did include the repayment for loan 1 in Ms Bs expenditure for loan 2. 
And it seems to have done the same for when loans 3 and 4 were granted. Equally, while 
the credit check LAH has provided seem to suggest no adverse credit file information, that 
that doesnt mean the loan repayments were sustainable for Ms B. 
So, overall Im upholding the complaint about loans 2  4
.Putting things right
If LAH has sold the loans to a third party, then it can if it wishes buy these back. If however, 
LAH isnt able to do so it can not make a deduction from the redress below and it will need to 
then work with the third party to achieve the same results as below. 
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance due 
for loans 2, 3 and 4 
Ms Bs liability then needs to be capped at the principal balance she borrowed for each 
loan. Each loan balances needs to be re-worked applying all payments made by Ms B 
as if they went towards the principal balance she borrowed. 
If and when, Ms B has repaid enough for any loan then any overpayment needs to have 
interest added at 8% per year simple on the date the overpayment became due until 
the date of settlement*;
LAH can then deduct from any overpayment due any other outstanding principal 
balance due on for any other loan.
But, if the above refund is sufficient to repay what Ms B owes, then the remainder of the 
refund should then be paid directly to her;
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay any outstanding principal, then 
LAH and Ms B should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind LAH of its obligation to treat Ms B fairly;   
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file about loans 2  4.   HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give Ms 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Bs complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should pay Ms B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman