DRN-2848110
The complaint
Mr O complains that BISL Limited (BISL) incorrectly reduced the number of years of no 
claims discount he was entitled to.
What happened
In 2017 Mr O took out a car insurance policy using BISL as his broker. He complains that at 
the end of the policy year the documentation he received from BISL stated that he had 9 
years no claims discount (NCD) when he actually had 16 years.
Mr O continued to renew his policies through the same company so didnt note that the 
policy documentation said he had 9 years NCD. He realised this in 2020 and says as a result 
of the error, he was unable to apply for a new policy using his entire NCD as he would only 
be able to evidence 9 years. And he believes he has lost out on having the benefit of those 
years as a result. So he raised a complaint with BISL.
BISL didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that the maximum NCD it would accept was 9 
years and that is why it had quoted 9 years in the paperwork. It did, however, provide a letter 
confirming Mr Os full entitlement as a gesture of goodwill. Mr O disagreed and raised a 
complaint with this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that it was 
standard industry practice to limit the amount of NCD a consumer can benefit from and the 
paperwork reflected that. And she thought that BISL had been clear about this in the policy, 
so she didnt think it had made an error. Mr O disagreed so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I wanted to clarify that this service is not a regulator and doesnt make the rules on 
how financial businesses should operate, rather we consider individual complaints about 
financial businesses. I can see that Mr O would like BISL to change the way it operates, 
however in reaching my decision I have focussed on whether BISL made an error in this 
instance and the impact that had on Mr O.
When Mr O applied for the policy online, he was asked about his NCD. He ticked the box 
that stated 9+ years. As BISL limited discounts at 9 years, it only provided options up to 
that amount. And when his policy came to an end, the renewal notice reflected that 
information and stated that Mr O had a NCD of 9 years. As this was the most BISL accepted, 
I dont think it made a mistake in quoting this on its renewal document.
BISL also made it clear in its policy documents that it limited the NCD at nine years. The 
policy states that a maximum of 9 years NCD would be applied to the policy. So I think BISL 
made this clear when he bought the policy, in his policy documents and also when he 
renewed the policy. 
Mr O says he could only tell his future insurers that he has nine years NCD as that is all he 
could evidence, but I dont think hes shown that was the case. Mr O doesnt appear to have 
contacted BISL immediately at the end of his policies to query whether it would be willing to 
provide him with evidence of a longer NCD. He did this sometime later when he raised his 
complaint  and when he did, he was provided with confirmation of the full length of his 
NCD. And given that this was the first time Mr O had raised the issue, I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In addition to this, Mr O claims that he has lost out financially as a result of the reduction in 
his NCD. But it is common across the industry for NCD to be limited at a certain number of 
years  often as low as five years NCD. And Mr O has said he isnt willing to obtain further 
quotes to evidence that his policy would have been cheaper had he been able to evidence 
more years NCD so Im not satisfied Mr O has shown that he has lost out as a result of BISL 
quoting 9 years NCD. 
So, I dont think Mr O has taken steps at the time the policy renewed to see if BISL could 
assist him and he hasnt been able to show that BISLs actions in stating that he had nine 
years NCD caused him any detriment. So overall, Im not satisfied that BISL made a mistake 
or that Mr O has shown that its actions had any financial impact on Mr O. And it follows that I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask BISL to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman