DRN-2042111
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about the amount PA (GI) Limited (PA) has offered in compensation to 
her for the mis-sale of a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy attached to a store card.
What happened
Mrs P was sold a PPI policy to protect the repayments on a store card shed taken out. PA 
has accepted that the policy was mis-sold to Mrs P because the cover was added to her 
account automatically, without giving her the opportunity to confirm that she wanted it. 
PA offered her £44.92 to compensate her for this mis-sale. But Mrs P didnt think that PAs 
offer was enough to fully compensate her for the mis-sale and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that PAs offer was fair. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators view, 
so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As PA has already agreed to uphold Mrs Ps complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in this 
decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether the 
offer PA has made is fair.
PA has provided extracts from its computer records that show a start date for the store card 
account of 29 August 1989. And the start date of the PPI policy is given as 3 September 
1991. These records also show that, over the life of the PPI policy, Mrs P paid a total of 
£7.94 in PPI premiums.
PA says that, although it therefore knows the total premiums paid, it doesnt have full details 
of when all these premiums were actually charged to Mrs Ps account. It says it is missing 
statements for Mrs Ps account for the period before January 2008. Thats not altogether 
surprising, as businesses arent required to keep such records for that length of time. 
In such circumstances, we expect a business to make reasonable assumptions about when 
the PPI premiums were applied to an account based on all the information which is 
available. And having reviewed the method PA has used to do this, Im satisfied that what it 
has done is fair. I think the method it used to do this was also fair for the short period after 
May 2019, when it says it doesnt have statement records either.
Using these assumptions, where necessary, PA has reconstructed Mrs Ps store card 
account on the basis that PPI premiums were never charged to it. In this way, it has been 
able to estimate the extra costs she is likely to have incurred as a result of this PPI mis-sale.
PA has also added simple interest to compensate Mrs P for the times when she has been 
out of pocket on her account because of these additional PPI costs. And to do this it has 
used a rate of 15% for the period before 1 April 1993 and 8% thereafter.
So, from the information Ive been given, Im satisfied that PA has calculated the redress 
offered to Mrs P in the way that I would have expected and that it is fair. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs P has said about thinking her account was opened, with 
PPI being charged to it, at an earlier date than PA says. But Mrs P hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to show that this is likely to have been the case. So I remain satisfied 
that PAs computer records showing the start date of the policy in 1991 are, most likely, 
correct.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against PA (GI) Limited.
If it hasnt already done so, PA (GI) Limited should now update its original offer and pay this 
to Mrs P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman