DRN-3132157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a term assurance policy. 
Mrs S has been the main correspondent for this complaint, so Ill mainly refer to her in the 
decision. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S purchased a term assurance policy through Barclays which included 
critical illness with total and permanent disability (TPD) cover. 
Sadly, in 2021 Mrs S had to make a claim under the policy following a diagnosis of 
Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. She made a claim to her insurer who told her 
the claim for TPD would be assessed against the specified work tasks in her policy. The 
insurer then rejected the claim because it didnt think Mrs S met the definition of TPD under 
her policy. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the decision to decline her claim. She felt the policy had been mis-
sold, so she made a complaint to Barclays. She said that she was advised by Barclays 
during the sale that TPD would be offered on an own occupation basis. But when she went 
to claim under the policy, she was assessed on whether she could meet the specified work 
tasks definition in the policy. She said this definition of the policy was unreasonably difficult 
to claim under, so this policy wasnt suitable for her. 
Barclays considered the complaint but didnt accept it. It said that the level of cover for TPD 
is set by the insurer based upon the type of employment of the applicants. And that after 
Barclays submitted the application, the insurer decided to only offer TPD under the working 
activities definition in the policy terms. If the insurer was happy to accept the application, 
Barclays said the insurer wouldve written to Mr and Mrs S to confirm on what basis it was 
willing to offer cover. And they wouldve had the opportunity to review the offer from the 
insurer before accepting. So, Barclays didnt think itd done anything wrong. But it offered 
Mrs S £150 for shortcomings in the way it handled her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Barclays could 
be held responsible for the level of cover the insurance provider offered. He said that 
Barclays submitted the application to the insurer who in turn decided what level of cover it 
was prepared to offer Mrs S under the TPD section of the policy. So, he didnt think the 
policy had been mis-sold. 
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Barclays shouldve been 
aware that the insurer would change the level of cover it would offer based upon her 
occupation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Anyone offering financial advice must ensure their recommendations are suitable to meet a 
customers needs. But theyre not required to find and recommend the best possible product 
available. 
Here, the main point is whether the policy was mis-sold due to TPD being offered by the 
insurer based upon specified work tasks instead of own occupation. Mrs S says Barclays 
told her TPD would be offered on an own occupation basis. She finds the specified work 
tasks unreasonably difficult to claim under and feels that not being offered own occupation 
TPD cover for this policy because shes a nurse is a form of discrimination. 
Ive checked a copy of the application that Barclays and the insurer have said was submitted 
and this clearly says that TPD would be offered based upon specified work tasks. A further 
booklet was then sent after the sale which confirmed the same. So, I have to make a 
decision - on balance  whether Mrs S was mis-informed at the point of sale. But I dont think 
she was. I think its more likely than not the cover provided by the policy was discussed and 
then submitted to the insurer. The insurer then decided Mrs S would be covered under the 
specified work tasks. Ive also considered that documents were sent to Mrs S after the sale 
which again explained what type of cover she was offered for TPD. And Mrs S didnt query 
this with either Barclays or the insurer in 2019. So, I dont think its unreasonable to say she 
was happy with the cover here.  
I can certainly understand Mrs Ss frustration with the level of difficulty in trying to claim 
under the TPD definition. And that she wasnt given own occupation cover. But Im not 
satisfied that this means the policy was mis-sold or Mrs S was discriminated against by 
Barclays. 
Ive considered all the relevant legislation when reviewing this aspect of the complaint. For 
me to be satisfied Mrs S was discriminated against, Id need to see that she was treated 
differently or less fairly than other customers due to a protected characteristic. I can 
understand why she feels this way, but having looked at all the evidence, and bearing in 
mind what Ive explained above, I dont think Barclays has done so. Nor do I think Barclays 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
TPD being offered under specified work tasks is a common feature of this type of cover. And 
I dont consider it unreasonable for Barclays to sell policies which only offer certain types of 
TPD cover to people based upon their employment if those that apply for this policy with a 
similar occupation are treated the same as Mrs S. The insurer is responsible for setting the 
terms and conditions of the cover and Im satisfied the application was submitted for the 
insurer to have the final say on the cover it was willing to provide. It was then up to Mr and 
Mrs S to decide if the TPD cover the insurer offered was acceptable to them. 
I note Barclays offered £150 to Mrs S in recognition of the way it handled her complaint. This 
seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.So, I dont believe this policy to be mis-sold, nor do I agree Mrs S was treated unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman