DRN-4066442
The complaint
Mr P complains about how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with his claims to refund 
two payments under its buyer protection policy, and also complains about how difficult it was 
for him to make further claims about other payments.
What happened
For a period of several months, Mr P habitually played a certain game online on a platform 
hosted by Google. He made a large number of purchases, and he says that all of these 
purchases were made via his PayPal account. These purchases (or at least some of them) 
were for upgrades to the game. Unfortunately, some of the later upgrades introduced 
glitches into the game, and the game stopped working properly. In time, the game eventually 
became all but unplayable.
Mr P complained to the game developer, who referred him to Google. Google referred him 
back to the game developer. After being passed from pillar to post, Mr P asked PayPal to 
refund his purchases.
PayPal opened disputes about two of Mr Ps purchases under its buyer protection policy 
(under the reason item not as described). It closed one of them as ineligible (as it had not 
been brought in time), but PayPal raised the other one (£85.99 on 30 March 2022) with 
Google. In response, Google sent PayPal the terms and conditions of the purchase and its 
refunds policy. Based on that information, PayPal rejected Mr Ps claim. But it acknowledged 
that Mr P had found this an upsetting experience, and so it apologised and offered him a £30 
gift voucher.
Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mr P brought this complaint to our service. He 
estimated that altogether he had made purchases adding up to between £15,000 and 
£20,000, and he asked for them all to be refunded as a resolution to his complaint. He 
argued that as the game had become unplayable, all of the earlier upgrades to the game 
were now defective too.
PayPal reconsidered its position, and conceded that it should have asked Mr P for further 
evidence that the game upgrade was defective before denying his claim. In recognition of 
that error, it offered to refund the purchase of £85.99. But it did not agree that this complaint 
should include the other purchases which Mr P had not raised specific claims for under its 
buyer protection policy. It said that Mr P should raise  or should have raised  claims for 
each of them.
Mr P said that was impossible, or at least unrealistic. He had lost count of how many 
purchases he had made over the months. He recognised that PayPals policy required a 
claim to be made within 180 days of each purchase, but he still maintained that PayPal 
should refund all of them. He thought that PayPal could easily carry out a simple search on 
its systems to identify the relevant payments made on his account; he himself was unable to 
do this as the relevant information had since been deleted from his account by PayPal, 
which he suggested was because PayPal was trying to make it harder for him to dispute 
them.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She asked PayPal for Mr Ps entire 
transaction history for the years 2021 and 2022. But PayPal declined to provide that 
information, on the ground that it was not relevant to this complaint, which related to only 
one purchase. It maintained that it only knew about two relevant purchases, and that it was 
Mr Ps responsibility to identify any others and to request refunds through the proper 
channels. It pointed out that it would not be liable for any purchases which had not been 
made via PayPal. Mr P reiterated that it was entirely impracticable for him to obtain this 
information, but it would be easy for PayPal to find it on its systems.
So one of the issues in this case is the scope of this complaint. PayPal maintains it is only 
about one payment (or perhaps two). Mr P maintains that it is about all of them; scores or 
perhaps hundreds of as yet un-itemised transactions. Our investigator took the view that this 
complaint should be confined to the single payment of £85.99 made in March 2022, because 
she did not have evidence of the others.
The investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that PayPals offer of a full refund 
of the relevant payment and a gift voucher was fair.
Mr P did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. And PayPal 
said that if the scope of this complaint was going to include any other payments, then it 
would want an ombudsmans decision too.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to say that this complaint should encompass all of the 
payments Mr P has made via PayPal, but that I should not uphold it. I will explain why.
The scope of this complaint
When PayPal gave Mr P its final response to his complaint, only one transaction was the 
subject of that complaint: the one on 30 March 2022 for £85.99. But when Mr P brought this 
complaint to our service, he said he wanted to be reimbursed for all of his purchases. At that 
time, our service had no jurisdiction to entertain a complaint about those other purchases. 
That was because rules made by the FCA say that PayPal is entitled to eight weeks to 
consider a complaint against it, before the complainant can bring that complaint to us.
However, we sent Mr Ps complaint form to PayPal in November 2022, and eight weeks 
have elapsed since then, so Im satisfied that the other payments now fall within our 
jurisdiction. I will therefore consider them as part of this complaint, although I have not found 
it necessary to request further details about them from either party, for reasons I will set out 
below.
The merits of this complaint
I will begin with the two payments which Mr P raised with PayPal under its buyer protection 
policy (the policy).
One of those payments was raised too late. The policy says that a claim for a refund must be 
made within 180 days of the transaction. The payment was made in December 2021 and 
Mr P asked for it to be refunded in August 2022, so PayPal decided that it was ineligible. That was certainly correct. (Mr P says he tried to claim that one again; but of course it would 
still have been ineligible.)
PayPals original decision not to refund the other payment, according to its final response 
letter, was based on the evidence it had received from Google: its refunds policy and its 
terms of payment. PayPal concluded that Mr P was not entitled to a refund. I note that the 
buyer protection policy says that PayPal will make a final decision about a claim in its sole 
discretion. But that does not prevent me from holding that a decision was wrong if it was 
patently unreasonable or if PayPal exercised its discretion unfairly, and I note that section 47 
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 prevents a trader from contracting out of its liability under 
the Act (which requires digital goods to be of satisfactory quality). So a no-refunds policy 
might not necessarily be a good enough reason to reject a claim. However, as Ive said, 
PayPal later offered to refund the whole payment because it had not asked Mr P for 
evidence that the upgrade software he paid for was defective. I think that is a fair resolution 
to that issue, and so I will not require PayPal to do more about that.
As for the other payments, Mr P has not claimed refunds for them in accordance with the 
policy, so PayPal has not considered them. I think that PayPal is entitled to insist on 
compliance with its policy. It is not for PayPal to identify the relevant payments for its 
customer; it was for Mr P to do so. I recognise that this would have been an onerous task for 
him, because of the sheer number of payments that he made. But it is not my place to re-
write PayPals policy and substitute my own rules.
I could stop there, because I think that is a sufficient reason to reject this complaint, but I will 
say a little more about it, because otherwise it might seem unfair to Mr P to have his 
complaint rejected on a purely procedural or technical ground. So I have thought about what 
would probably have happened if Mr P had taken the time to raise a dispute under the policy 
about each and every payment he made to Google via PayPal in connection with the game.
Firstly, many of these payments would have already been more than 180 days old, and so 
they would have been ineligible for a refund. Mr P has acknowledged that, but has still 
argued that they should be refunded nonetheless. But PayPal has no obligation to refund 
ineligible payments. It is entitled to rely on the time limit.
(Incidentally, I think the time limit might explain why the transactions no longer appear in Mr 
Ps account on the website. They must all be over 180 days old by now. Even if that isnt the 
reason, although I have seen screenshots showing that the payments are no longer visible, 
that does not tell me who deleted them. So I am unable to conclude that they were removed 
by PayPal in bad faith.)
Secondly, although it would be possible to show that these payments were all made to 
Google, I do not know whether there would have been evidence of which game on Googles 
platform they were for. One of the reasons why PayPal insists, and is entitled to insist, on 
each one being raised as a specific claim under the policy is so that PayPal can verify (if it 
can) that each payment is relevant to the game in question. That may not have been 
possible.
Thirdly, PayPal would have needed to see evidence that each payment was for an upgrade 
to the game, and not just for something else, such as an in-game purchase which would not 
have affected the games performance. Since the essence of the problem is that it was the 
upgrades which caused the game to deteriorate, there would have needed to be evidence 
linking each payment to a purchase of an upgrade.
Fourthly, just because the game has become defective does not mean that every upgrade 
was defective. Some of the upgrades were probably fine. PayPal would not have had to refund them all just because it would not have been possible to prove which ones had 
caused the problem. At present, there is no evidence (other than Mr Ps description of 
events) that more than one upgrade was not of satisfactory quality, and PayPal has offered 
to refund one of them.
Furthermore, in Mr Ps complaint form he described the game gradually deteriorating with 
each upgrade. That means he knew some of the upgrades didnt work properly, but he kept 
spending money on them. I dont think it would be fair to expect PayPal to reimburse him for 
throwing good money after bad. (And although that scenario does not come within the letter 
of section 34(4) of the Consumer Rights Act, I think it does come within its spirit.)
For all of the above reasons, I am currently of the opinion that PayPal does not have to do 
anything else to fairly resolve this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P did not accept my provisional findings. He clarified that what he had been purchasing 
were not upgrades to the game itself, but optional upgrades to his account  in-game tools 
and accessories. (He described what they were, but I dont need to do that here.) These had 
not caused the game to fail; rather, it had been upgrades made by the game developer. 
Those upgrades had caused the games performance to get worse over time, as the glitches 
that were introduced became more and more serious. Mr P had therefore asked for a refund 
as the game was defective. He reiterated that the accessories he had bought had no use 
outside of this particular game. He argued that as the game had become defective, this 
therefore made the in-game purchases defective as well, since they can no longer be used.
Mr P also argued that time limits are unfair. He said that he had managed to obtain refunds 
of around £2,400 from Google. Then, after it was clear that Google was no longer talking to 
him, he had approached PayPal. By then, very few of the purchases had been less than 180 
days old. Mr P reiterated that PayPals claims procedure is glitchy and difficult to use; 
sometimes it fails and deletes all progress, and so he would have to start again. So it had 
not been practical to raise individual claims for each eligible purchase. So rather than 
itemising each of the purchases that were still in time, he had claimed one of them (£85.99), 
and had then tried to raise a second claim for 1p, which was meant to represent all of the 
other purchases, in which he had attempted to describe the entire situation. That claim had 
been rejected without investigation. Meanwhile, more purchases had fallen out of PayPals 
time limit and so had become ineligible. He argued that digital goods should be eligible to be 
refunded no matter how much time has elapsed.
PayPal did not reply to my provisional decision by the deadline.
My findings
I have considered all of Mr Ps new arguments, and taken into account his helpful correction 
of the facts of this case, but I remain of the view that I should not uphold this complaint.
Goods, including digital goods, are only considered defective for the purposes of the 
Consumer Rights Act and PayPals buyer protection policy if they were defective at the time 
they were sold. So PayPal is not liable for software which was fine when it was sold but then 
became defective later on.
The game accessories were not defective when Mr P bought them. I understand that he 
cant use them now because the game no longer works. But that is not because of anything 
that was wrong with the accessories when he bought them. PayPal isnt responsible for what 
happened later.Also, the accessories are only unusable now because the game doesnt work. The 
accessories themselves didnt develop a flaw, it is just that they can only be used on a 
platform that stopped working. So the accessories are not really defective within the 
meaning of the policy or the Act. PayPal is not responsible for the game itself, or for the 
upgrades to the game.
I remain of the view that it is reasonable of PayPal to enforce the time limit for bringing a 
claim under this policy, for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I am therefore satisfied that PayPals offer to refund £85.99 is a fair resolution to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to 
pay Mr P £85.99. I do not require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
our services involvement in this case to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman