DRN-3439610
The complaint
Ms G says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 that ELL provided to
Ms G on 13 October 2015. The monthly repayments were £198.27 and the total repayable 
was £4,758.48.
Ms G says she was struggling financially when she was given the loan and had to borrow to 
make her repayments
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Gs complaint and thought ELL shouldnt have given the
loan. ELL disagreed, saying the loan improved Ms Gs financial position as it allowed her to 
get out of the cycle of using payday loans, and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Gs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms G would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms G. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms G undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms G. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Ms G. It asked for her monthly income and checked this against a recent payslip. It 
estimated her living costs using national averages. It carried out a credit check to understand 
her credit history and her existing credit commitments. It reviewed recent bank statements to 
check certain costs like housing and other credit commitments. Based on these checks ELL 
thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think the lender made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
ELL could see from its checks that Ms G was using payday loans. It argues this loan was to 
break that cycle and improve her financial position. Whilst it seems she was going to settle 
one high-cost loan, the evidence ELL sent us shows it knew she would still have £429.73 of 
ongoing monthly credit commitments. By approving this loan it increased the amount of 
monthly income Ms G would need to spend on servicing her debt to around 30%. And it 
calculated she would only be left with £120.58 of disposable income. I dont think this was a 
borrower-focused decision given Ms G had two young dependents. In these circumstances I 
think ELL ought to have realised there was a risk Ms G would be unable to repay this loan 
sustainably over the two-year term of the loan.  
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Ms G.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms G to repay the capital amount that she borrowed,because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Ms G paid on the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Ms Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Ms G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Gs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman