DRN-2520260
The complaint
Mr L is concerned that balances Barclays Bank UK PLC say are owing on two accounts are 
incorrect, and he is unhappy that these accounts were sold to a debt purchasing company.
What happened
Mr L had two credit accounts with Barclays. Mr L was shocked to be advised by Barclays 
that there were outstanding balances on both accounts, and he was suspicious about the 
amounts the Barclays said were outstanding because they were similar to Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) repayments received from a recent claim. Mr L was also 
unhappy that Barclays then sold both accounts to a debt purchasing company. So, Mr L 
made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ls complaint, but they didnt feel that they had acted unreasonably or 
unfairly toward Mr L, so they didnt uphold it. Mr L wasnt satisfied by Barclays response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly or inappropriately here. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and 
for essentially the same reasons.
I have reviewed the history of these accounts, which demonstrate that Mr L was making 
monthly payments towards these accounts of £35 and £45 respectively. However, Mr L 
stopped making these payments in June 2016, after which time both accounts fell into 
arrears. 
Mr L has advised that he was shocked to discover that there were outstanding balances on 
these accounts. But there is considerable prior correspondence between Mr L and Barclays 
which confirm that Mr L was aware that there were outstanding balances remaining on these 
accounts. These include letters sent by Barclays to Mr L in July, August, September, and 
October 2016 where Barclays advise Mr L that his accounts are in arrears. And it is evident 
that Mr L responded to a number of these letters. 
I also note a previous complaint response letter issued by Barclays to Mr L which specifically 
addresses that Mr L was unhappy with phone calls he was receiving from Barclays in 
October 2016 because these accounts were in arrears.
So, considering the above, its difficult for me to conclude that Mr L wasnt aware of the 
outstanding balances on these accounts. Rather, the evidence available to me appears to 
confirm that Mr L was aware that balances were outstanding on these accounts and had 
been corresponding with Barclays about these outstanding balances. It follows that I will be 
unable to uphold this aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L has also stated that he finds the amounts outstanding on these accounts suspicious as 
they correspond with awards for PPI he had previously claimed. However, only one of the 
accounts in question had PPI, and the amount awarded following the successful PPI claim 
differs significantly from the balance now owing on that account. Ive also seen nothing 
during my review which would suggest that these outstanding balances arent legitimate or 
that their accrual is unusual in any way.
Mr L is also unhappy that these balances were sold to a debt purchasing company, and that 
this took place while he had an ongoing complaint with Barclays. Addressing the second 
point first, I can see that Barclays issued a complaint response to Mr L on 9 February 2017 
and that the accounts were then sold to the debt purchasing company on 13 February 2017. 
So, Im satisfied that Barclays issued a response to Mr Ls complaint before selling the 
outstanding balances to the debt purchasing company.
And Im also satisfied that it was reasonable that Barclays did sell the debts to the debt 
purchasing company. As previously mentioned, Mr L stopped making payments against both 
accounts in June 2016. Following this, as described previously, Barclays made efforts to 
contact Mr L regarding these outstanding balances, but no further payments were received. 
This led to Barclays issuing default notices to Mr L, and when no payments were made by 
Mr L following these notices, to then default both accounts on 3 February 2017. After which 
time the accounts were sold to the debt purchasing company.
 
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to 
take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was 
wanting, but I hope he can understand, based on what I have explained above, why I have 
reached the decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman