DRN-3138664
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) wouldnt tell him the reason why his loan application was declined.
What happened
Mr C applied for a loan from Clydesdale. He says he was shocked and embarrassed to hear 
that his application was declined.
Two days later Clydesdale emailed Mr C, saying they were unable to provide him with credit 
because his application didnt meet their current lending criteria. They said this decision was 
based on a number of reasons, including the checks they have in place as a responsible 
lender. They said their decision was made taking into account the information Mr C had 
provided in his application, together with any additional information about him that theyd 
obtained from fraud prevention and credit reference agencies. They advised him to contact 
these agencies directly if hed like to know what information they held about him.
Mr C checked with one of the credit reference agencies. He says his credit rating was good 
 he could see no indication as to why any loan application would be declined. He 
complained to Clydesdale, but they said they were unable to tell him why hed failed their 
lending criteria. Mr C says he was told their appeals team may be able to provide further 
information, but he didnt hear anything more from them.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, because he was satisfied that Clydesdale 
had followed industry best practice. He said lenders are expected to give a primary reason 
for declining an application, but that they arent expected to disclose all the information 
theyve received from credit reference agencies. He said businesses should instead tell 
applicants how they can check whats on their own credit files. 
The investigator explained that Clydesdale had declined Mr Cs application due to the 
amount hed already borrowed and the monthly repayments he was having to make, 
compared to the income hed declared at the time. And that this didnt meet their lending 
criteria. The investigator said the detail of Clydesdales lending criteria is commercially 
sensitive information, so our service doesnt have the power to make them disclose anything 
more. But he told Mr C that Clydesdale had offered £50 compensation for failing to call him 
back after saying they would.
Mr C declined Clydesdales offer of compensation. He said his main concern was the lack of 
a full explanation for the refusal of the loan  not their failure to call him back. He said he 
probably wouldnt have taken any further action if theyd said straight away that the loan was 
declined because they didnt think he could afford it. He didnt see how this information was 
commercially sensitive. He said he felt theyd misled him into thinking he needed to contact 
credit reference agencies. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his case, and to 
consider whether theres a wider problem with customers being needlessly referred to credit 
reference agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Clydesdale must follow. Businesses must consider what information customers need, and 
communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive considered Mr Cs 
complaint with this principle in mind. 
Ive seen evidence showing Clydesdale declined this loan because Mr Cs application didnt 
meet their current lending criteria. Although I can appreciate his disappointment at this 
decision, I cant say Mr C has been treated unfairly or unreasonably here. Businesses are 
entitled to set their own criteria as to how much money - and under what circumstances - 
theyre prepared to lend. 
Im satisfied that Clydesdale told Mr C the reason the loan was declined; this being because 
his application didnt meet their lending criteria. They went on to say that their decision was 
based on information theyd obtained from his application and from fraud prevention and 
credit reference agencies. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable explanation. 
Clydesdale provided further information to our investigator. They explained that they took 
into account the amount Mr C had already borrowed - and the monthly payments he needed 
to make towards paying that off - compared to the income hed declared in his application. 
Mr C says that the explanation Clydesdale originally gave him told him nothing. He thinks 
they should have told him from the start that they didnt think he could afford the loan. But 
Im not persuaded that Clydesdale were wrong to say the loan was declined because his 
application didnt meet their lending criteria. Businesses all have slightly different lending 
criteria - another lender may have been prepared to offer Mr C further credit. 
The criteria Clydesdale use to decide whether or not theyre prepared to lend are 
commercially sensitive. So, I wouldnt expect them to provide specific details to Mr C about 
what theyd need to see in his application, or on his credit file, for a loan to be approved. 
Mr C says he was given misleading advice about contacting credit reference agencies to 
check whether the information they held was correct, which he felt to be a waste of time. 
Having given careful thought to the points hes made here, Im unable to say Clydesdale did 
anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
The Standards of Lending Practice, published by the Lending Standards Board, set out 
standards of good practice for lenders offering unsecured loans to customers. They say that, 
if an application is declined due to information obtained from a credit reference agency, the 
business should direct the customer to obtain a copy of the information held about them from 
the agencies concerned prior to making any further applications. 
Clydesdale say their decision to decline the application was based partly on information 
obtained from credit reference agencies. So, I consider them to have followed best practice 
by advising Mr C to contact those agencies if he wanted to make sure the information they 
held was correct. I dont find there to be anything wrong with the process Clydesdale 
followed here.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Clydesdale needs to do anything more. I note that 
they acknowledged that Mr C didnt receive another phone call, which hed been promised. 
Theyve apologised for this and offered him £50 compensation to reflect any distress or 
inconvenience caused. Mr C should contact Clydesdale directly if he now wishes to accept 
this. My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman