DRN-3621260
The complaint
Mrs S complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
Mrs S is represented by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her.
What happened
Mrs S opened a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct in June 2014. The initial credit 
limit of this account was £850. This limit was increased two subsequent times to £1,350 
(May 2015) and £1,600 (September 2015). Mrs S says this account was irresponsibly 
approved and that Shop Direct did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. She 
says had Shop Direct completed reasonable and proportionate checks it ought to have 
realised the credit was unaffordable to her.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision on this complaint. I set my 
provisional findings out as below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ss complaint.
Shop Direct and Mrs S are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail
here.
Account Opening
Shop Direct says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Mrs S
for the initial account limit. It says it checked Mrs Ss application and used information from
the credit reference agencies to verify its lending decision.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was
responsibly lent to Mrs S. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Shop
Direct lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These
checks needed to assess Mrs Ss ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its
term, without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but whatever is done needs to be
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the
credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
Mrs S says at the time of the application she had an existing debt with a bank, a further
catalogue shopping account and high cost credit account. She says Shop Direct did not
complete reasonable and proportionate checks. Ive carefully considered Mrs Ss arguments
but based on the information I have so far, Im not minded to agree with her.
The information Shop Direct had at the time of the application suggested Mrs S had a
relative low active credit limit (approximately £3,500), and there were no registered defaults
or active county court judgments. There were some suggestions that there had been issues
in the past with some of her accounts (I note one of the accounts was flagged as showing as
being in an arrangement). However it did show that, on balance, over the past 24 months
Mrs S had been managing her existing credit in line with expectations, and that further credit
 especially that with a low limit  would be sustainable.
So whilst Ive no reason to dispute what Mrs S has said about her finances, the evidence
which Shop Direct was provided with at the time did not suggest Mrs S was in such a
position that further checks were required (when considering the relatively low level of credit
being provided) or that any decision to lend was unsustainable.
As such it follows that Im satisfied Shop Direct acted fairly in providing the initial account
limit.
Subsequent account increases
Mrs Ss account had two further credit increases. The first was in May 2015 where the limit
increased to £1,350. The second increase was in September 2015 to £1,600.
Shop Direct again says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks on each of these
increases. It says Mrs S was managing her account well. Shop Direct has not provided the
evidence of the credit reference agency information it gathered at the time of these
increases. It says the only times Mrs S exceeded her limits or incurred any administration
fees were for nominal amounts and Mrs S returned the account to within its limits
immediately afterwards.
Turning to the first limit increase in May 2015. At this point in time Mrs S had been
maintaining minimum repayments and was utilising around 50-70% of her account limit. The
amount of credit being used had increased steadily from the initial point of sale. However,
there were two administration fees (for late payments) and small arrears of £8 (which was
settled the next month).
Ive considered if Shop Direct shouldve done more checks at this point, and on balance Im
satisfied it shouldve. I say this because whilst there was a low utilisation of the account,
there were suggestions Mrs S had some issues handling the account. Whilst Shop Direct
says it considered credit data it has not provided this, and in the absence of this Im satisfied
there was enough evidence to prompt it to gather further information from Mrs S. I say this
as well because the limit of £1,350 was a sufficient increase, and considering Mrs S was not
yet utilising her existing limit, Im satisfied Shop Direct shouldve done more for the checks to
be considered proportionate.
Our service has asked Mrs S to provide further information from the time of the account limit
increase. She has been unable to do so.
As there is no further information from either party, Ive considered what I think on balance
further checks wouldve likely shown based on the information which is already available.
As stated above whilst there were some administration fees and small arrears, Im not
satisfied this information alone is enough to say that Mrs S could not have sustainably
afforded the increase in the credit limit. Mrs S wasnt in sustained arrears, nor was she
exceeding her limit. So in the absence of any persuasive evidence Im currently minded to
say that had Shop Direct completed further checks these wouldve likely shown Mrs S couldafford the credit increase.
The same logic applies to the second increase in September 2015. It follows that as Shop
Direct didnt do proportionate checks for the first increase (and it did the same checks for the
second); Im satisfied it didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks in the second
instance either.
Again in the absence of further evidence Im also satisfied that further checks wouldve likely
shown Mrs S could afford the credit increase. I note that between May and September 2015
Mrs S managed the account well. She increased her buy now pay later balance, but
continued to meet her necessary repayments. There were no late payments or arrears
during this time. So on balance Im minded to say Shop Direct didnt act unfairly when it
approved this credit limit either.
In summary, based on the information I currently have, Im minded to say Shop Direct
completed reasonable and proportionate checks for the initial limit and the information it
gathered meant it made a fair decision to lend. However it did not complete reasonable and
proportionate checks for the subsequent credit increases as the increase in limit and account
management information suggested it shouldve done more to verify Mrs Ss finances.
However, in the absence of further persuasive evidence from either party, the information
provided demonstrates, on balance, that Mrs S could afford the increases in credit limit.
It follows that Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wished to 
provide. Shop Direct responded accepting the provisional decision; whilst maintaining that it 
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks. It says Mrs Ss credit file was in such a 
position that further checks were not necessary. Mrs S did not respond with any further 
comments or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im satisfied my provisional 
findings should remain. That is to say I do not uphold this complaint.
Shop Direct maintains it completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. I 
have considered its argument but I disagree with it. As stated above, whilst there was a low 
utilisation, Im satisfied that there was some signs of distress and a sufficient increase in the 
credit limit which ought to have prompted further checks. 
However, in the absence of further information, Im satisfied the information which is 
available suggested on balance, that Mrs S couldve likely afforded the increase in credit 
limit.
The same logic applies to the second increase; and Im satisfied based on the information 
which has been provided (and for the reasons set out in my provisional findings), that Mrs S 
couldve likely afforded this increase too.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman