DRN-3765388
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Kingsfleet Wealth Limiteds poor service and advice from December
2019 onwards resulted in her pension suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 August 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have re-produced the relevant part of that provisional decision 
below, and it forms part of this final decision.
Copy of provisional decision
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background
and circumstances to the complaint in her assessment, a copy of which she sent to both
parties. In summary, Mrs D had first engaged the services of the firm in 2012 to provide
advice about her pension. In December 2018 she signed up for its Foundation Service,
which included the firm providing an annual review. Its cost was 0.75% of the plan value
annually. Mrs Ds attitude to risk and capacity for risk were agreed to be Adventurous at
that time.
A review meeting was scheduled for December 2019. The firm sent Mrs D a copy of the fact
find that had been completed in 2012, and asked her to update it where necessary and take
it to the review meeting. At the meeting the adviser recommended that Mrs D switch from the
Adventurous risk profile to Balanced.
Mrs D telephoned the adviser on 2 March 2020. She was concerned about market volatility
caused by the Covid pandemic and its impact on the value of her fund. The funds value had
been just over £260,000 at the time of her December review. Mrs D discussed reducing the
funds risk. The adviser discouraged it, and asked Mrs D to confirm to him in writing after the
call if she wished to switch her funds into cash as she had suggested. Mrs D didnt contact
him to do this, so the funds remained invested.
Mrs D then e-mailed and telephoned the adviser on 16 March 2020. She was worried about
the market and the falling value of her fund. She asked the adviser to move all of her funds
into cash. By this time the fund had dropped to just over £230,000.
Mrs D didnt speak with the adviser again until 30 April 2020. There were no further
recommendations. In June 2020 Mrs D sent a letter of complaint to the firm and removed
their agency. The firm didnt uphold the complaint, and Mrs D subsequently referred it to us.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She said the service
agreement in place provided for a review of the suitability of the investments
recommended. This would be carried out at least annually. The December 2019 meeting
was recorded. The investigator considered the recording of the meeting, subsequent
telephone calls, and the documents available from the time. She said the fact find (that Mrs
D says she updated) wasnt asked for or discussed during the meeting. She said there was
no record of an updated fact find being completed.
The investigator said that before a firm gave a personal recommendation it was required to
take reasonable steps to find out and record enough detail about the customer relating to the
service they were offering. And that even if Mrs D didnt produce the fact find, the
responsibility, as per the service agreement, was with the adviser to obtain the relevant
information needed to ensure its recommendation was suitable. The investigator said it was
apparent from the evidence that this hadnt been the case.
The investigator said that before the recommendation was given and confirmed in writing,
Mrs D had clearly confirmed she would use some or all of her tax-free cash in eight months
time. She said that her income was not enough, and her mortgage was around £45,000 at
that point. She was considering paying half, if not all of it off with that money. She was also
very clear she wanted to install a new kitchen, a new bathroom and take a holiday, and that
these would all be funded by her tax-free cash allowance in eight months. She talked at
length about this and repeated these objectives numerous times in the subsequent
telephone conversations.
The investigator said the adviser was aware at the end of the review meeting of these facts,
including an income shortfall and the eight-month timescale. The adviser sent a letter to Mrs
D dated 9 December 2019 recommending to reduce the risk profile from Adventurous to
Balanced. This was because  it could have significant movements in valuation over the
short term which would not sit well with the intention of drawing funds in the next 12 months.
The same letter confirmed the funds would actually be drawn in eight months for the purpose
of partial or whole repayment of the mortgage, so the timescale and needs were clear.
The investigator said the balanced portfolio had a 2% cash holding which was
the only money in the portfolio not subject to any fluctuation. There was 11% in fixed
interest, and the remaining 87% was invested in equities and commodities and so subject to
significant changes in value. Only 2% of the money could be relied upon to meet the need
arising in the short term which was significantly less than required.
The investigator said the risk profile questions which had been used to gather information on
Mrs Ds tolerance and capacity for risk, which were used in the original fact find to assess
her as Adventurous, were not discussed or asked again. Although Mrs D was asked before
the meeting to reflect on this information, it wasnt discussed, and the adviser didnt seek
confirmation that she had. The investigator said the questions were crucial to determining
the correct level of risk for Mrs D.
Overall, the investigator didnt think the balanced portfolio recommended in December 2019
was suitable given Mrs Ds objectives and her circumstances.
The investigator also considered the calls Mrs D made to the firm when the market was
dropping in value and, by her own admission, Mrs D said she was panicking and considering
moving all her money into cash. She confirmed in the first call with the adviser that she
needed the money they had discussed in December 2019, and she did not have the time to
depend on the value of her pension recovering. This was stressed increasingly as the calls
progressed. The investigator said Mrs D summarised her position very clearly in the third call
after she had moved all her money into cash by saying If my birthday wasnt in [its month] I 
wouldnt feel as I do. If I was 45 or 50, I wouldnt feel as I do. Paying of bits of my mortgage 
is not going to happen. I cant afford to reduce the capital sum. I am gutted. When she was 
told she may have access to a reduced amount of tax-free cash of approximately £25,000 
she said she had earmarked £40,000 to £50,000 for spending as she had detailed at the 
review. That objective had remained the same as she had stated in December 2019.The investigator said the adviser discussed at length the danger of market timing when
Mrs D had raised concerns about her investment after the review. He initially strongly
recommended remaining invested for long term growth. The investigator said Mrs D had
made it clear at the review that her circumstances had changed and that she needed a cash
sum in the short term. The investigator said that although the business wasnt responsible
for the market turbulence, it was responsible for taking steps to reduce the portfolio volatility
when it became aware of Mrs Ds plans
The investigator recommended that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She went onto
outline how she thought Kingsfleet Wealth should calculate and pay compensation to Mrs D.
In brief, she said it should compare Mrs Ds current position with the position assuming she
had switched £50,000 into cash in December 2019, and the remainder had been invested in
line with a benchmark based on half the investment aligned to the FTSE Private Investors
Income Total Return Index, and the other half the average rate for fixed rate bonds.
Mrs D asked some questions about the method for calculating compensation. She also
asked if she would be reimbursed the fees she paid to the new adviser, as she thought this
was fair in the circumstances.
Kingsfleet Wealth said that although it didnt agree with the investigators findings, in the
interests of bringing the matter to a close it would make an offer to Mrs D. It said, however,
that in March 2020 the majority of funds had dropped in value including those reflected by
the benchmark recommended by the investigator. And the compensation should reflect the
fact that Mrs D chose to switch all of her funds into cash despite it recommending against
doing so. It provided a copy of how it had calculated its offer of compensation.
Mrs D didnt accept the firms offer. There were then a number of exchanges of
correspondence between the investigator, Mrs D and Kingsfleet Wealth, largely about
whether Kingsfleet Wealth had advised Mrs D to switch to cash and how this should be
reflected in the compensation.
Mrs D said Kingsfleet Wealth had advised her to switch into cash as evidenced in the record
of the telephone call. The investigator also thought that in the call where the firm had
confirmed the funds had been switched it effectively said it agreed with her, and it was not its
advice for Mrs D to remain invested at that point.
Kingsfleet Wealth said this was incorrect, and its advice was for Mrs D to remain invested.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator on the merits of the
complaint, and largely for the same reasons. However having carefully considered the
matter, I think fair compensation should be slightly different.
Kingsfleet Wealth was required to comply with the Regulators Principles for Business and its
Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). The Principles required it to, amongst other things,
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence and take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who was entitled to rely upon
its judgment.COBS 9 required it to, in summary, take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal
recommendation or decision to trade was suitable for its client. In doing so, it needed to obtain
such information as was necessary for it to understand the essential facts about Mrs D and have
a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation was suitable to meet her investment
objectives; ensure Mrs D was able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with
her investment objectives; and had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
For the same reasons as set out by the investigator, Im not satisfied that it did obtain sufficient
information about Mrs Ds circumstances in December 2019 to understand the essential facts
and have a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation was suitable. Again, for the same
reasons as set out by the investigator, I dont think its recommendation to switch to the balanced
fund was aligned to Mrs Ds objectives at that time. And from the information that was available,
it doesnt appear that Mrs D was able to financially bear the risk its presented. In my view the
recommendation presented a greater degree of risk than Mrs D should have been recommended
to take, and wasnt suitable in all the circumstances.
Ive listened to the telephone calls that Mrs D had with the adviser in March 2020. I accept in the
first call the adviser was recommending that Mrs D remain invested. He talked about the
difficulties of timing the market  both disinvesting and then re-investing. In a wider context, I
dont think this was unreasonable. But Mrs D was invested in a portfolio that presented a greater
degree of risk than she should have been recommended to take. Its volatility and the impact on
Mrs D was greater than it would otherwise have been had Mrs D already been invested in a
portfolio presenting lesser risk (and some money set aside to meet her objectives).
In any event, in the call with Mrs D on 16 March 2020 when the adviser confirmed that Mrs Ds
funds had been moved to cash, he said that this is what he was going to advise her anyway 
that he now thought it was the right time to make that switch. The adviser had previously talked
in general terms about how markets could have significant falls but recovered over time, and he
thought this was no different. But he said in the 16 March 2020 he now thought this time it did
feel different.
Whilst I accept that Mrs D had already instructed the firm to switch her to cash before this call, in
my view Mrs D would have left the call understanding the firm had endorsed that decision; she
wouldnt have gone away with the understanding that the firms view was to remain invested.
However, whether the firm had endorsed the decision or not, in my view it wasnt an
unreasonable decision in the circumstances. Given the reason behind the market volatility at that
time there was a lot of uncertainty. The evidence clearly shows that Mrs D was very worried
about her pension. But as Ive said, the volatility was, in large part, because she was invested at
a greater degree of risk than was suitable for her and would otherwise have been exposed to. I
accept that more cautiously invested funds also suffered volatility in this period. But not to the
same degree. And Mrs D would have had £50,000 in cash if suitable advice had been given in
December 2019. The funds that the firm were recommending Mrs D stay in were unsuitable. So I
dont think it would be reasonable for the firm to say as the fund recovered (and more) that it
shows Mrs D should have remained invested  the funds were unsuitable and could have
suffered further losses.
My understanding is that the value of the funds had fallen to approximately £233,000 by the
time that Mrs D switched to cash (albeit the fund had fallen further by the time the switch had
been completed). This was from a value of around £260,000 in early December 2019, and 
Mrs D has said its value on 20 February 2020 was approximately £285,000. Mrs D has
confirmed that she switched back into funds on 12 June 2020 following advice from her new
adviser. So there was a considerable fall in the value of her fund before she actually made the
decision to switch to cash.
Taking all the above into account, like the investigator, I think the firm should have recommendedthat Mrs D switch £50,000 into cash and invest the reminder at a lower risk in December 2019.
Given the £50,000 would have met her shorter term needs, and that investing in line with the
degree of risk that is a proxy for the benchmark recommended by the investigator, I dont think
she would likely have switched the remainder into cash in March 2020 if shed been suitably
invested. As I said, she didnt switch into cash until her actual fund had fallen in value
significantly. I dont think she would have experienced the same level of falls if she had been
invested appropriately in December 2019.
At the same time, if she had been in suitable funds in December 2019 and with the £50,000 in
cash, she would also unlikely have seen the same increases in value that she saw with her
balanced portfolio during the period up to March 2020. So the extent of the subsequent falls
during that period would unlikely be the same using that benchmark index.
For the reason I have outlined above, I dont think the firm met its regulatory obligations as I
have outlined above in the Principles or COBs. I dont think the advice given to Mrs D was
suitable. 
Accordingly, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
I went on to outline how I thought Kingsfleet Wealth should calculate and pay fair 
compensation. 
I said that in calculating fair compensation, my aim was to put Mrs D as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I said I 
thought Mrs D would have invested differently. And it wasnt possible to say precisely what 
she would have done. But I recommended a comparison against a benchmark that I thought 
was reasonable given Mrs D's circumstances and objectives in December 2019. I said I also 
thought that Mrs D would have allocated £50,000 to cash after her annual review, and before 
investing in a different risk profile, to cover her planned expenditure and debt repayment. 
And that this should be taken into account in the calculation. 
I asked Mrs D and Kingsfleet Wealth to let me have any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Kingsfleet Wealth responded to say that the key issue was Mrs Ds clarity of objective in the 
review meeting held in December 2019, rather than in the subsequent phone calls. It said, in 
summary, that Mrs D hadnt made up her mind about the level of tax-free cash she wanted 
to take at the December 2019 review meeting. It said it was apparent that the amount that 
Mrs D was looking to draw and the date or dates when this would happen were unknown, 
but the amount was significantly less than £50,000. And it had left the matter for Mrs D to 
think about and let it know her decision. Therefore the assumption that Mrs D  should have 
been advised to switch £50,000 into cash following that meeting wasnt appropriate.
Kingsfleet Wealth said the rapid reduction in the value of global markets impacted all risk 
portfolios, and so only moving to 100% cash would have preserved the tax-free cash 
available at the time. But it would have been irresponsible for it to have moved 100% of Mrs 
Ds pension fund to cash in December 2019  this would have assumed some 
foreknowledge of the subsequent events.
Kingsfleet Wealth said Mrs D called it on 16 March 2020 to say she wanted to switch to 
cash. This was 14 days after it had told her that in order to move to cash it would simply 
need e-mail verification from her. It said by the time it had spoken to Mrs D on the 16 March  
it had already carried out Mrs Ds instructions to move her whole fund into cash. It said it 
appeared Mrs D was under pressure from her ex-husband (a stockbroker) to move into cash 
and that Kingsfleet Wealth werent the sole advisers.So it said if it had known of Mrs Ds plans in the December 2009 meeting it would have 
instigated a move into cash at an earlier stage. However given the market falls in March 
2020 the level of tax-free cash would still have been lower. Mrs D delayed making her 
decision to move into cash for a two-week period in which time the market had fallen. This 
was to Mrs Ds detriment.
I responded to Kingsfleet Wealth Limited on 6 October 2022. A copy was sent to Mrs D. I 
said that Id reviewed the matter in light of Kingsfleet Wealths submission that Mrs D hadnt 
made up her mind about the level of tax-free cash she wanted to take at the December 2019 
review meeting. 
I said, in summary, that I thought Mrs Ds intention to take some of her tax-free cash in
2020 was clear in the December 2019 meeting. And Mrs D had been advised to lower the 
level of risk she was taking by switching from an adventurous risk profile to balanced. The 
letter sent to Mrs D dated 9 December 2019 recommending to reduce the risk profile said  
it could have significant movements in valuation over the short term which would not sit 
well with the intention of drawing funds in the next 12 months. The same letter confirmed 
the funds would be drawn in August 2020 for the purpose of partial or whole repayment of 
the mortgage.
I said I thought the balanced portfolio still presented significant risks given its asset make up. 
And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I didnt think the balanced 
portfolio was suitable given Mrs Ds circumstances  it would still not sit well with her 
intentions, and in my view Mrs D should have been advised to switch into a more cautious 
risk portfolio.
Kingsfleet Wealth had said as Mrs D was always going to be looking at drawdown, moving to 
a cautious portfolio for her long term objectives would also have been inappropriate. 
However I thought even if she was going into drawdown longer term (if that was suitable for 
her circumstances), the fact shed identified she wanted to take tax-free cash within a few 
months meant a cautious portfolio was appropriate for the shorter term. I said the make-up 
of the balanced portfolio meant it presented significant investment risk and could impact on 
the tax-free cash required if markets fell. I said the degree of risk for the portfolio could then 
be reviewed after Mrs D had taken the tax-free cash she required to ensure it was suitable 
for her longer-term objectives.
However I said I thought if Mrs D had been switched into a cautious portfolio in December 
2019, and her position had been less exposed to market risk, there would have been no 
urgent need at that time (December 2019) to move a proportion of her funds to cash. The 
investment markets werent seeing the high volatility subsequently seen in 2020. So on 
reflection, I said I agreed that Mrs D hadnt made up her mind about the level of tax-free 
cash she wanted in the December 2019 meeting. And in the context that, with suitable 
advice, Mrs D would have been invested in funds presenting less risk, I said I agreed that 
Kingsfleet Wealth wasnt obliged to advise Mrs D to switch £50,000 into cash at that time.
I said Id gone onto consider whether Mrs D, if she had been invested more cautiously from
December 2019, would have then gone onto switch her pension into cash in February/March
2020. The firm had previously said that even if Mrs D had been in a cautious portfolio it
would have been subject to market volatility in early 2020. And I agreed that was the case. 
However I said a portfolio reflecting the 50/50 index I recommended as a proxy for the 
degree of risk that Mrs D should have been recommended to take was subject to materially 
less volatility as the balanced portfolio that Mrs D had been recommended.I didnt think it was likely that Mrs D would have switched any of her pension to cash if she 
had been suitably invested from December 2019 in line with the degree of risk represented by 
the 50/50 benchmark. I said I didnt think its value would have fallen to the same value it actually 
did at the time Mrs D decided to switch (16 March 2020).
However, I went onto say that if I was wrong about that, and its value (if invested in line with the 
50/50 benchmark) would have fallen to the same value sometime prior to Mrs D transferred to 
the new pension, I thought it was reasonable to assume that Mrs D would have made the same 
decision to switch her entire pension to cash and on the date it fell to that same value. So I said if 
that was the case, Kingsfleet Wealth should assume Mrs D decided to switch 100% to cash on 
the date its value fell to the same amount as when she actually instructed it to make that switch. 
And that Kingsfleet Wealth should also assume the time taken to complete the switch mirrored 
the time taken on the actual switch.
So I said Kingsfleet Wealth should calculate and pay compensation to Mrs D as I set out in my 
provisional decision, but without assuming that she would have allocated £50,000 into cash in 
December 2019. And assuming she didnt subsequently switch into cash unless the conditions 
Id described were met. 
I asked both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments before I made my final 
decision. 
Mrs D said, in summary, that she agreed that she hadnt made up her mind about the sum of 
money she wanted to draw in the December 2019 meeting. However she said if the adviser 
had asked her to decide how much tax-free cash she would require and explained the 
reasons for it, she would have given Kingsfleet the exact sum. So the necessary steps to 
reduce risks could have been taken.
Mrs D strongly disagreed with some of the firms comments. In particular she was unhappy 
with Kingsfleet Wealths references to her ex-husband and his role in the matter; she said 
she hadnt spoken to him about her pension. She said the adviser was her only financial 
adviser at the time.
Kingsfleet Wealth Limited said it still didnt agree that its advice for Mrs D to reduce her risk 
profile from adventurous to balanced was unsuitable. It said it had also reviewed the 
performance of the balanced portfolio with a cautious portfolio. And both fell near enough by 
the same amount. It thought due to market conditions at the time Mrs D would always have 
switched to cash and crystallised her loss. So Mrs Ds position, whichever portfolio she was 
in, would have been the same. It said any loss calculation should be based on a comparison 
of the cautious portfolio, and it was unclear why I had suggested redress be based against 
the benchmark I had recommended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional findings that Mrs Ds 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ive only summarised the responses to my provisional decision and 6 October 2022 letter, 
but I have taken all what was said and provided into account. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that the balanced fund 
recommended for Mrs D was suitable in the circumstances. In my view its asset content 
provided a greater degree of risk than Mrs D was able to financially bear, and wasnt suitable for her circumstances. I also dont think a balanced degree of risk was suitable in any event 
given Mrs Ds objectives and overall circumstances  I think she had limited capacity to 
financially bear such risk.
For the reasons given, I think Kingsfleet Wealth should have advised Mrs D to switch into a 
portfolio presenting a more cautious level of risk in December 2019. In doing so she would 
have had less exposure to riskier assets. But for the reasons I explained in my letter dated 6 
October 2022, I dont think Kingsfleet was obliged to advise Mrs D to switch £50,000 of her 
portfolio into cash at that time (December 2019).
I think whether or not Mrs D would have subsequently switched her pension into cash is 
dependent on how her fund would have performed if it had been suitably invested in line with 
the 50/50 benchmark Id recommended. Whilst the asset make-up of this benchmark had 
less exposure to risk, as I said, it was nevertheless subject to market volatility given the 
extreme volatility seen during early 2020. But although Mrs D was considering switching due 
to the volatility, she didnt decide to do so until the value of her pension had fallen 
significantly. And I think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs D would have decided to make 
the same decision to switch if the fund she had been suitably invested in also fell to the 
same value. 
Kingsfleet Wealth has questioned the use of the 50/50 benchmark for redress calculation 
purposes. The degree of risk presented by the cautious portfolio it referred to will depend on 
the particular asset content of that portfolio. Like the balanced portfolio it recommended 
which I think presented significant risks, there can be differences of opinion between 
different investment managers about what mix of assets represents different levels of risk.  
Kingsfleet Wealth has previously also referred to the lA Mixed Investment 20-60% shares 
benchmark as an appropriate comparator for a cautious portfolio. I accept choosing an 
appropriate comparator is a matter of judgement. But in my view the 50/50 benchmark 
provides an objective comparator and is an appropriate proxy for the limited level of risk I 
think was suitable for Mrs D in the particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs D as close as possible
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Mrs D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Mrs D's circumstances and objectives in December 2019. 
What should Kingsfleet Wealth Limited do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mrs D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should pay into Mrs D's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Kingsfleet Wealth 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If Kingsfleet Wealth Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ds pension 
plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. I think Mrs D is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mrs D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. i.e. which is equivalent to
15% on the full amount. 
investment 
name Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to         
end         
date)additional return
Pension 
portfoliofor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bonds18 December
2019 (to allow for 
reflection on and
implementation
of
recommendation
as per letter of 9
December
2019)Date
transferred
to new
pensionThe loss calculated as at the
end date should be revalued
in line with the same
benchmark up until the date of 
this final decision.
In addition:
Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should pay Mrs D £500 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by the worry and disruption to Mrs Ds plans that resulted from the unsuitable 
advice. Mrs D has suggested a higher figure, but in my view £500 is appropriate in 
the circumstances.
Mrs D incurred charges from her new adviser. I dont think Mrs D should be charged 
twice to have her funds suitably invested. The fee she paid to her new adviser was a 
matter between Mrs D and the adviser. However she had also paid a fee to  
Kingsfleet Wealth Limited for ongoing services, including the annual review. I 
understand this was 0.75%. So I think Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should also pay Mrs 
D 0.75% of the value that was transferred to the new pension provider as a proxy to 
reimburse fees she paid for having to put things right.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to the loss calculated at 
final decision date to the date of settlement if settlement isnt made within 28 days of 
Kingsfleet Wealth Limited being notified of Mrs Ds acceptance of a final decision.Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should provide details of the calculation to Mrs D in a clear, 
simple format. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kingsfleet Wealth 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs 
D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the pension at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the pension would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Kingsfleet
Wealth Limited should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of
the previous month. Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should apply those rates to the investment on
an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
If, sometime prior to Mrs D transferring to the new pension the value of her fund (if invested in 
line with the 50/50 benchmark) would have fallen to the same value as Mrs Ds actual pension 
when she decided to switch, Kingsfleet Wealth should assume Mrs D would have made the 
same decision to switch her entire pension to cash and on the date it fell to that same value in its 
calculation. It should assume the time taken to complete the switch mirrored the time taken on 
the actual switch.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs D into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs D would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs D could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Kingsfleet Wealth Limited should calculate and pay compensation to Mrs D on the basis I 
have outlined above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman