DRN-4340701
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with Care by Volvo Car UK Limited (CBV). 
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs S hired a car through a hire agreement with CBV. The agreement was 
a flexible mileage subscription with an annual mileage allowance of 10,000. Mrs S said 
within the following two years she enquired about switching her vehicle on a number of 
occasions but was told there were none available. In August 2022 Mrs S entered into a new 
hire agreement with CBV for a different vehicle. 
Mrs S says she received an end of contract charge of £4,067.39 and had a further monthly 
repayment of £599 taken out for the car that shed returned. She said CBV never contacted 
her about amending the mileage allowance despite their terms saying they would. Mrs S 
also believes that had she been able to get another vehicle when she enquired about it, she 
wouldnt be in this position. 
Mrs S raised a complaint to CBV. She said she wants a refund of the £599 monthly 
repayment that was taken after her car was returned, and doesnt think its fair that she 
should pay for the excess mileage.
In August 2022 CBV issued their final response to Mrs S complaint, which they didnt uphold. 
CBV said they had several vehicles available in their stock which Mrs S could have selected 
from, that they had no evidence Mrs S was told by them that she couldnt increase the 
mileage allowance during the term, and that her customer service concerns should be 
directed to the retailer.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs S brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information provided, our investigator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld in part. 
Our investigator felt CBV acted fairly when they applied the excess mileage charges, and 
that they werent obliged to inform Mrs S about increasing it during the term. They concluded 
that the £599 was taken in error and had caused some distress to Mrs S, so recommended 
that CBV pay Mrs S £100 in compensation. Our investigator, however, didnt think CBV 
needed to refund the monthly repayment because it was used to reduce the outstanding 
excess mileage debt.
CBV accepted this recommendation. Mrs S didnt. She said she felt CBV failed in their duty 
of care towards her and that the £599 should be refunded to her.  Our investigators view 
remained unchanged, so Mrs S asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. 
Having thought about the details of this complaint, it seems to me there are three key 
questions for me to consider:
Was it fair that CBV applied the excess mileage charge?
Was CBV obliged to contact Mrs S to review her mileage allowance?
Should CBV have refunded Mrs S £599 directly, rather than reduce the excess 
mileage charge?
Applying the excess mileage charge and CBVs obligation to make contact
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is a requirement for transparency in the terms. It also says if a term in 
a consumer contract could have different meanings, that the meaning most beneficial to the 
consumer should prevail.
Mrs S complains that the terms in the hire agreement led her to believe that CBV would 
actively contact her to review her mileage allowance.
The terms Mrs S referred to in the hire agreement were in section 8.4 where it says we may 
also contact you to offer a change in your mileage and we may also check the mileage 
during your subscription
Having considered the terms of the agreement, I dont think it was reasonable that Mrs S 
considered that CBV were obliged to make contact with her throughout the term of her hire 
agreement to review the mileage allowance or usage.
The terms say they may do so. I think its reasonable to conclude that the actions referred 
to in section 8.4, were not definite or compulsory actions that CBV intended on carrying out, 
as a characteristic of their hire agreements. I say this because their terms also state: Please 
contact the Customer Relations Centre in the event you want to change your mileage 
allowance or if you have any other question in relation to the mileage allowance.
Im satisfied that this additional wording makes it clear (in addition to the use of the word 
may), that there is an onus on the consumer to inform CBV of any amendments or 
enquiries relating to their mileage allowance. Mrs S said she believed the terms meant CBV would contact her. So, Ive also thought about 
whether the terms were clear enough, so as not to be vague in their meaning. Having 
thought about this carefully, for the reasons given, I dont think its reasonable to consider 
the terms were unclear or vague in how they were presented. So, it follows that I dont think 
it would be fair or reasonable to expect CBV to remove the responsibility from their 
consumers by monitoring vehicle usage during a period of consumer hire, and to be liable for 
any excesses.
As Ive concluded that CBV werent obliged to contact Mrs S about increasing her mileage 
allowance, and that their terms were reasonably transparent, it follows that I think CBV acted 
fairly by applying the excess mileage charges on Mrs S agreement. 
payment taken in error
Mrs S explained to us that CBV deducted a monthly repayment of £599 despite the car 
being returned to them. This has been confirmed by CBV and is not in dispute. What 
appears to be in dispute is CBVs decision to offset the payment taken in error against the 
excess mileage charges by applying the credit of £599 to it, rather than refund the amount 
directly to Mrs S.
Mrs S says that the refund should have been made directly to her because the excess 
mileage charges were in dispute. However, as Ive concluded that the excess charges have 
been applied fairly, I think its reasonable that CBV chose to offset the refund. Mrs S owed 
CBV in excess of £3,000 (which Ive considered to be fair), for a debt that relates to the 
same hire agreement as that of the monthly repayment refund. So, deducting the £599 from 
the amount owing, Ive considered was a reasonable and appropriate action for CBV to take 
in the circumstances, so as to reduce Mrs S debt to them. 
Having said that, I acknowledge that CBV took the monthly repayment out in error, which 
had caused some distress and inconvenience for Mrs S, and so Im in agreement with our 
investigator that £100 in compensation is a fair recognition of this.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Care by Volvo Car UK Limited to:
Pay Mrs S £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused from taking the 
additional monthly payment in error
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman