DRN-1999089
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs Z took out PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. 
Santander cant confirm where the sale took place. Mr and Mrs Z recall it was in a 
branch meeting. The policy was in Mr Zs sole name and it gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying Mr Z had a pre-existing medical condition 
that wouldnt have been covered under the policy. He said Santander shouldnt have 
recommended the policy without pointing this out to Mr and Mrs Z, to make sure they 
knew Mr Z wouldnt have been able to make a related claim. He didnt think Mr and Mrs 
Z would have taken out the policy if it had done this. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so issued a provisional decision 
(an extract is set out below which forms part of this final decision). I asked both parteis 
to respond with any comments or additional information by 9 July 2020. Neither party 
responded to my provisional decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
Im currently not planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Zs pre-existing medical condition
Santander recommended the policy for Mr Z to Mr and Mrs Z so it had to take 
reasonable steps to find out about his circumstances and check the policy was suitable 
for him. It also had to give them enough clear information so they could make an 
informed decision whether or not to buy it.
It seems that Mr Z couldve been affected by the exclusion in the policy relating to pre- 
existing medical conditions. This is because Mr Z had an ongoing condition when he took 
out the policy. This means he wouldnt have been able to claim on the PPI if he was 
unable to work because of it. And I cant see that Santander properly considered this, or 
made Mr Z fully aware of this during the sale.
But I dont think better advice or information about this exclusion wouldve changed Mr 
and Mrs Zs decision. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mr Zs condition was 
something he would have thought it was likely he would need to make a claim for. Hes 
told us that he was on medication and that hed had never had time off work because of 
it. In such circumstances, I think it seems unlikely Mr Z would have thought his condition 
would cause him to be off work for as long as needed to claim on the policy. And the 
policy wouldve still covered Mr Z for conditions that were unrelated, or if he lost his job.
So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Z wouldve made a different decision if better advice and 
information about the exclusion had been provided. On balance, I think they would still 
have taken out the policy for Mr Z.
the other aspects of the sale
Ive also reviewed the other aspects of the sale to make sure Mr and Mrs Z havent lost 
out because of any other problems. I dont currently think they have and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs Z had to agree to 
buy it. They say had they been given an option they would have declined PPI. The bank 
no longer has all the paperwork from the sale. But thats not unreasonable or surprising 
given how long ago the sale was.
Santander has told us its sales process at the time required its adviser to explain the 
policy and give the customer a leaflet. Then the customer completed the application form 
in the leaflet - separate to their mortgage application form - if they wanted to apply for PPI. 
It says PPI has never been a condition of borrowing. I cant know what was said in the 
meeting but theres nothing in the sample of the leaflet Santander has provided that I think 
could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs Z to think PPI was mandatory. Santander has 
provided a copy of the PPI welcome letter it then sent Mr Z. This suggests to me they 
chose to apply for cover for Mr Z, and had completed the PPI application form. I can 
understand they might not recall this given how long ago the sale was.
On balance, I think its most likely Santander made it clear that PPI was optional and Mr 
and Mrs Z agreed to buy it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Z, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for Mr Z based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr Z told us 
he was entitled to less than three months sick pay and the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months for each successful accident or sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 
months redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs Z had no savings but recall they had another 
insurance policy that protected their mortgage. They havent been able to tell us much 
about this. So I dont know what events it covered, how much it paid out, for how long, if 
there was a deferral period or when it started. I do understand why they have so little 
information given how long ago it was. But with such limited evidence I cant fairly 
conclude it means they didnt need this PPI policy. And I note they made successful 
claims under this policy in 2001 and 2002.
Mr and Mrs Z were borrowing a large sum of money over a long time, secured against 
their home. Given the consequences of not being able to make their mortgage 
repayments, I think the cover would have been useful for them if Mr Z was off work sick or 
lost his job. And as they were paying for it monthly, they could cancel it if their situation 
changed or they no longer wanted it for Mr Z.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs Z about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But it seems Mr and Mrs Z chose to take out the policy and so 
appear to have wanted this type of cover. I dont know when the cost was made clear but 
the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable for them. Ive explained 
above why I dont think Mr and Mrs Z would have made a different decision with better 
information on the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. And I cant see Mr Z was 
affected by any of the other main exclusions or limitations. So overall I think it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Z wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. I 
think its likely they would still have taken out the policy.It follows I dont currently think Santander mis-sold the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
As neither Mr and Mrs Z nor Santander sent in any additional information or comments in 
response to my provisional decision there is no reason for me to change my findings or 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman