DRN-3632248
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that Next Retail Limited (Next) havent increased his credit limit during 
the time hes had a credit account with them. 
What happened
Mr W opened a credit account with Next in February 2020. The credit limit was set at £150.
Mr W says that hes been managing his account well since then  but Next havent 
increased his credit limit. He thinks this is unfair and discriminatory.
Mr W complained to Next and they replied to say they used (among other things) information 
from a credit reference agency to decide on credit limits  and the information theyd 
received showed he didnt have capacity to increase his payments. So they werent prepared 
to increase his credit limit. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. But Mr W 
didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Businesses can use their own commercial judgement in deciding whether, or how much, to 
lend  as long as they act fairly and reasonably. They should give the main reason for their 
decision, although this doesnt need to be detailed.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account make it clear that Next will decide the credit 
limit, which may vary at their discretion. I can see that in Mr Ws case, Next have explained 
to him that theyve chosen not to increase his credit limit because the information they have 
from the credit reference agency they use shows he doesnt have capacity to make higher 
payments. I dont think they need to give any more reasoning for their decision not to 
increase his limit. And I havent seen anything to show theyve made an error or treated Mr 
W unfairly when theyve made this decision.
Im sorry to learn Mr W feels hes been discriminated against due to his race and disability. I 
can understand why he might feel this way, and Id like to reassure him that in reviewing his 
complaint I havent seen anything to suggest that Next have acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
or that his race or medical condition played a part in their decision not to increase his credit 
limit. But I cant make a legal finding about whether discrimination has taken place or 
whether Next have breached the Equality Act 2010  that would be for a court to decide. 
I dont think Next have made a mistake or treated Mr W unfairly here. So although Im sorry 
to disappoint him, Im not going to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman