DRN-4393276
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over £7,000 she says she 
lost to an investment scam.
What happened
Mrs W fell victim to an investment scam orchestrated by the scam broker Profit Trade. She 
found the broker online and was contacted via telephone, where she was encouraged to 
invest and made the following payments:
Date Amount Payee Payment type
24 May 2019 £260.04 (refunded by 
merchant on 4 June 
2019  no loss)Profit Trade Credit card
12 June 2019 £518.49 Profit Trade Credit Card
27 June 2019 £500 RavebyFlutterwave Debit Card
27 June 2019 £500 RavebyFlutterwave Debit Card
28 June 2019 £500 RavebyFlutterwave Debit Card
12 July 2019 £5,000 Polter Group Spolk International transfer
Mrs W realised she had been scammed when she was unable to withdraw any of her profits 
and reported the fraud to HSBC in October 2019, where she asked it to pursue a 
chargeback. HSBC said it issued a final response on 20 November 2019 in relation to the 
credit card payment of £518.49, where it told Mrs W that she had six months in which to 
refer her complaint to this service  that is by 20 May 2020. However, Mrs W didnt refer her 
complaint until August 2020, and HSBC didnt consent to our service considering this 
payment.
Our investigator said that, as HSBC had only addressed the credit card payment in its 
November 2019 final response, it could not time bar any of the other payments Mrs W had 
complained about.
In addressing the merits of the complaint, our investigator thought that HSBC should have 
intervened in the £5,000 payment made on 12 July 2019 as it ought to have appeared out of 
character. However, she didnt think that any intervention would have ultimately prevented 
Mrs W from making the payment due to the research she had undertaken about the broker. 
Mrs W disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Jurisdiction
If a business doesnt consent, Im not allowed to consider a complaint which is 
referred to us more than six months after the date the final response letter is sent. 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1) can be found in the regulators' handbook of rules 
and guidance.
I understand Mrs W feels strongly about her complaint and doesnt feel shes been 
treated fairly. But our rules dont permit us to investigate the merits of late complaints 
unless a business consents or there are exceptional circumstances for the delay. I 
cannot disregard the rules, even where someone feels very strongly theyve been 
wronged. HSBC hasnt consented to us looking into the disputed credit card payment 
aspect of Mrs Ws complaint, so the only thing Im able to consider in relation to this 
is whether this part of her complaint is late and, if so, whether there were exceptional 
circumstances for the delay.
HSBC sent its final response on the credit card payment on 20 November 2019 
where it told Mrs W that she could refer her complaint to this service, but that she 
must do so within six months of the date the final response was sent. This meant that 
Mrs W had until 20 May 2019 to refer her complaint to us. As she didn't do so, this 
part of Mrs Ws complaint is out of time under the rules that apply.
I am, however, allowed to consider complaints made late where the failure to comply 
with the time limits was due to exceptional circumstances. I am aware that Mrs W 
has been suffering from mental stress and emotional hardship since falling victim to 
the scam, and I dont doubt that this has been a difficult time for her. However, Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence to demonstrate why she wouldnt have been able 
to refer the complaint about her credit card payment to this service within six months 
of HSBCs final response letter. So, I do not consider this to be an exceptional reason 
for this part of her complaint being referred late. 
As a result, I intend to conclude that our service cannot consider the disputed credit 
card transaction of £518.49 and whether HSBC should have refunded this, which 
includes undertaking any chargeback or Section 75 claims. However, given this was 
the only transaction addressed by HSBC in its final response, Im satisfied that 
Mrs W is not time-barred from complaining about the remaining transactions set out 
in the table above.
Merits
It isnt in dispute that Mrs W has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made between 27 June 2019 and 12 July 2019 from her 
HSBC account and debit card. The payments were requested by her using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs W 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the first three payments made by Mrs W, I dont think these were 
enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by HSBC. All were for £500, 
which wouldnt have appeared so unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way her account was normally run. So, I dont intend asking HSBC to refund 
these payments. 
However, by the time Mrs W came to make the international payment of £5,000 on 
12 July 2019, this marked a significant increase in spending and could be considered 
as out of character given it was also being paid to a new international payee. So, I 
think HSBC ought to have intervened and questioned Mrs W about this payment. 
If HSBC had carried out reasonable due diligence by contacting Mrs W and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to suggest she wouldnt have been 
forthcoming about what she was doing. Our investigator stated that Mrs W had 
carried out extensive research into the merchant. However, when questioned further, 
it became clear that this only related to reading positive testimonials on the 
scammers website. She has not said that she consulted any other sources online at 
the time, of which I note there were several websites and reviews stating that Profit 
Trade was a scam prior to Mrs W making her payments. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mrs W would have paused and looked 
more closely into Profit Trade before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was 
willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It 
seems more probable that she would have made further enquiries into the merchant 
and whether or not they were regulated in the UK or abroad. Mrs W could have also 
discovered the other various warnings about the broker posted on review websites 
such as Trustpilot. In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from HSBC would 
probably have exposed Profit Trades false pretences, thereby preventing further 
losses. As a result, I intend directing HSBC to refund the £5,000 payment Mrs W 
made on 12 July 2019.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions. And I have duly considered whether Mrs W should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence, which Im satisfied she should in this 
case.
As Ive set out above, Mrs W says she carried out extensive research on Profit 
Trade, but only considered the positive testimonials featured on the scammers own 
website. I dont consider this to have been sufficient due diligence to ensure that the 
broker was genuine, as it doesnt appear that Mrs W consulted any independent or 
impartial sources. If she had, she would have likely come across the various 
warnings and reviews from others who had been scammed by Profit Trade at the 
time and would have therefore been much less likely to invest her money with them. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mrs Ws lack of due diligence contributed to her loss 
such that she should share responsibility with HSBC, and Im satisfied a 50% 
deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Recovery
Mrs W has also complained that HSBC failed to pursue a chargeback claim for the 
payments she made via her Visa debit card. I note that Mrs W did dispute the debit 
card payments within the 120-day timeframe. However, Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to suggest that a chargeback would have likely been successful under Visa 
reason code 13.5 if it had been pursued.
In order for a chargeback to succeed in these circumstances the Visa rules require HSBC to present evidence that Mrs W had an available balance, and that she tried to 
withdraw sums equal to, or less than, her available balance on the same day. Visa 
require specific evidence in the form of dated screenshots on the day the withdrawal 
was requested, and I havent seen any such evidence of this kind in Mrs Ws case. 
Therefore, I do not think HSBC acted unreasonably by declining to pursue a 
chargeback in these circumstances.
In terms of the £5,000 international payment, I can see that HSBC attempted to 
recover the funds by reaching out to the beneficiary bank in November 2019, but it 
doesnt seem there was any response. In any event, given the payment was made in 
July 2019, it would be highly unlikely that any funds would have still remained in the 
receiving account by the time Mrs W reported the fraud. So, I dont think HSBC could 
have done anything more here to try and recover the funds. 
I note that Mrs W has also mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code). However, the Code only applies to authorised push payments, and so would 
not cover any of the debit card transactions she made. It also only applies to 
transfers made between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, 
the £5,000 payment was made to an international account, so the CRM Code would 
not apply to this transaction either.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. HSBC said it had no further 
comments to make. Mrs W responded and accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments or evidence to submit, I see no reason to 
depart from the reasons set out above in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the £5,000 payment Mrs W made as part of the scam, less a deduction of 
50% in recognition of her own contributory negligence towards her loss.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman