DRN-2874040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that National Westminster Bank Plc used an incorrect and low 
valuation of their development property to engineer a default, resulting in the forced sale of 
their property at a loss.  
In 2002, Mr and Mrs S jointly bought a property with the intention of redeveloping it. In 2006, 
Mr S entered into an agreement with NatWest to finance this development, as well as to 
provide him with some other borrowing.  
In May 2008, NatWests facilities expired and the bank transferred the relationship to its 
Global Restructuring Group (GRG) shortly afterwards.   
In December 2008, Mr S asked for the borrowing to be extended. The bank decided to get a 
fresh valuation first, arranging an informal valuation, which valued the site at £565,000-
£680,000 (the informal valuation). A previous valuation, carried out seven months before, 
had said it was worth £900,000. 
In March 2009, Mr S signed new documentation to restructure the borrowing, including a 
Fee Agreement with West Register (Investments) Ltd (West Register), another part of the 
bank. 
In 2010, the facilities expired again and the bank obtained another valuation, which valued 
the site at £600,000. Immediately after this, Mr S commissioned his own valuation, which 
came out at £910,000. 
In April 2010, the borrowing was renewed and Mr S was charged two arrangement fees, one 
of £10,000 and one of £5,000.  
In March 2011, the bank issued a formal demand, appointing a LPA receiver over the 
property a week later. The property was sold to West Register in May 2012, leaving a 
shortfall owing to the bank of around £286,000. 
In March 2013, Mr S entered into a settlement agreement with the bank, under which 
NatWest agreed not to seek recovery of the residual debt. 
In August 2017, Mr S complained to the banks voluntary GRG review scheme. He said that 
the bank had unreasonably relied on the low informal valuation of the site and refused to 
take account of the 2010 valuation hed commissioned. He also complained that the £10,000 
and £5,000 arrangement fees were unfair. 
The bank upheld parts of the complaint and said the following, in summary: 
They thought it was reasonable to carry out a valuation in December 2008, because 
Mr S was requesting an extension of his facilities. 
But their guidelines said it should have been a formal red book valuation. So they 
upheld the complaint about relying on the informal valuation. 
They didnt think Mr S had suffered any direct loss because of the reliance placed on 
the informal valuation.
They upheld the complaint about the fees and offered compensation of £6,975 (plus 
interest), being the difference between the fees paid and the fees it considered would 
have been appropriate. 
Mr S chose not to appeal this outcome and accepted the banks offer in resolution of the 
direct loss complaint. Mr and Mrs S then jointly submitted a claim for consequential losses 
amounting to around £597,000. They said that:
The informal valuation was used by the bank to say Mr S was in breach of his loan-
to-value (LTV) covenant and remove his £710,000 facility. 
The use of the informal valuation also enabled GRG to impose a new fee agreement, 
charging excessive interest and fees. 
It also eventually enabled GRG to foreclose and sell the property to West Register 
A secondary, domino effect of depriving Mr S of the profit from the development was 
that he was forced to sell his home and other land quickly at low prices. 
Mr and Mrs S were also involved in a long and costly tax tribunal regarding capital 
gains on the disposals. They thought the bank should pay for these costs too. 
There were also some additional costs, penalties and accountancy fees that they 
thought the bank should pay. 
The bank didnt uphold the consequential loss claim. Mr and Mrs S appealed to the 
Independent Third Party, who reached the same conclusion as the bank. 
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. They said their complaint 
hinged on the central claim that NatWests reliance on an incorrect informal valuation led to 
the failure of the development. They also said that the events had also caused considerable 
mental anguish. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ss consequential loss claim and wrote to 
them with his findings. He didnt uphold their complaint because he thought Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt shown that any of the losses claimed for were a consequence of direct loss 
complaints upheld by the bank.  
Mr and Mrs S disagreed that there was no causal link between the errors that NatWest 
accepted and the losses claimed for in the consequential loss claim. They made the 
following points, in summary:
The informal valuation had directly caused the default and forced them into GRG.
Two formal valuations, in 2008 and in 2010, called into question the informal 
estimate. 
It wasnt true that after January 2010, the bank had relied on the new formal 
valuation. 
The direct losses were irrelevant to the overall claim.
The tax tribunal had made a finding that the revaluations caused Mr and Mrs S to be 
in breach of their loan covenants and forced them to sell.They didnt understand why the revaluation, which was the crux of the whole 
complaint, was left out of scope by our investigator. 
The clear undervaluation of the property had set off a chain of events, which had 
forced Mr S into a downward spiral of unreasonable fees, excessive interest and 
restrictions on how he could deal with various parts of the property  for example 
partial sales. 
The bank had refused to take account of the 2010 £910,000 red book valuation that 
Mr S had obtained. Mr S had asked the bank to tear up the fee agreement in the 
light of this and theyd refused. 
GRG had turned down cash offers for parts of the site, thereby showing they didnt 
just want their money back, they wanted to ensure they could sell the site whole to 
West Register. 
The fee agreement had been put in place in bad faith, since Mr S hadnt even been 
made aware that the informal valuation wasnt a red book one at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but Ive reached essentially the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Because the matter of the fees and the informal valuation have already been resolved 
between the parties, the starting point of my decision is that Mr and Mrs S shouldnt have 
paid arrangement fees at that level and the bank shouldnt have carried out an informal 
valuation in December 2008. I wont be re-opening those issues. Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is 
now about consequential losses.
I need to look at whether the banks failures actually caused these consequential losses. 
And if they did, Id also need to ask whether it would be fair to hold the bank responsible for 
the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank could reasonably foresee that its 
failures would result in losses like these. In other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses 
werent too remote from the banks failings. 
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely 
to have happened if the bank hadnt carried out the informal valuation. I dont agree that our 
investigator said this was out of scope, I think this was the approach he took as well. 
Mr Ss arguments all hinge on the claim that the informal valuation valued the property 
wrongly. But the bank didnt reach this conclusion in the direct loss complaint. The bank 
upheld the complaint about the valuation, because its procedures said that it should have 
obtained a formal valuation, as it was planning to rely on it to consider a restructuring. But it 
didnt say it was wrong to obtain a valuation at that point. And it didnt say the informal 
valuation figure was inaccurate. The bank in fact thought the opposite  that it was more 
likely than not that a formal red book valuation by the same valuers wouldnt have been 
any different from the informal one.  
In general, my approach to valuations is that the bank is entitled to rely on experts, even if 
hindsight suggests that the valuation may not have been accurate. Im conscious that the 
valuation in this case, whilst informal, was given by a well known firm of valuers. Whilst I 
take Mr Ss point that the valuation is dramatically lower than the one just seven months 
earlier, it is in line with one of the two formal valuations carried out subsequently, in early 
2010. I think that what would have happened if the bank had followed its own procedures fully is 
that it would have obtained a formal valuation. We cant know what that formal valuation 
would have said. But on balance, I think its more likely than not that a formal valuation by 
the same valuers would have been at or around the same level. My conclusion is therefore 
that the banks error didnt change the outcome for Mr and Mrs S. The bank would still have 
required the fee agreement, obtained a subsequent valuation in 2010 and ultimately 
appointed an LPA receiver to sell. 
Mr S claims that the bank would have had no reason to transfer his borrowing to GRG 
without the informal valuation. I can understand why Mr S may have misremembered the 
sequence of events that happened nearly a decade ago. But Im satisfied this isnt correct. 
Mr Ss borrowing was already in GRG  and whats more, his facilities were already in 
default. They had expired earlier in 2008, at which point Mr S was also unable to service the 
interest on the loans.  
Mr S also says the bank shouldnt have rejected two offers for parts of the site, of £300,000 
and £100,000 respectively. But this wasnt part of his original complaint to the bank. So I 
cant therefore consider a consequential loss claim regarding these offers here. I also note 
that these offers seem to have been the subject of past complaints to the bank in 2011/12, 
so would be likely to be out of time for our service to consider.  
Mr S has objected to our investigators view that, after January 2010, the bank wasnt relying 
on the informal valuation, but on a new red book valuation. I think there is confusion here, 
due to the fact that there were two valuations carried out in quick succession in early 2010, 
which arrived at significantly different conclusions. Mr S is thinking of the £910,000 valuation 
he obtained, whereas our investigator was referring to the £600,000 valuation obtained by 
the bank. Both were, as I understand it, formal valuations carried out according to the RICS 
red book standards, although I accept that Mr S is very strongly of the opinion that the 
£600,000 was flawed.  
For the reasons Ive already set out, I consider the bank was entitled to rely on the £600,000 
valuation. I agree with our investigator that, after this date, the bank was no longer relying on 
the informal valuation, so it had no further impact on events. 
Part of Mr and Mrs Ss claim relates to the capital gains tax bill on property disposals. 
Mr and Mrs S havent set out clearly what they believe would have happened with the 
properties were it not for the banks actions. Ive already explained why I dont accept Mr Ss 
argument about the sequence of events. I dont think everything flowed from the informal 
valuation. So Im not persuaded that the banks error with the valuation and the fees caused 
a higher tax bill, particularly as they were sold after the 2010 valuations were obtained.
Ive also looked carefully at the other losses claimed for in the consequential loss claim 
relating to costs, penalties and professional fees. I agree with the investigator that the bank 
doesnt need to pay any further redress, for the same reasons he gave. I also find that the 
bank shouldnt be required to pay redress for personal impact. I accept that Mr Ss financial 
difficulties and the need to sell his home would have been a stressful experience, but Im not 
persuaded that the informal valuation or fees caused these problems.
Finally, I think its only right to point out that, even if I had upheld any part of Mr and Mrs Ss 
consequential loss claim, to be fair I would have had to award compensation to be offset 
against the sum written off by the bank on Mr Ss loan, which I understand amounted to 
some £286,000. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs S 
any further redress for consequential losses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman