DRN-3377650
The complaint
Miss M says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to switch her personal pension into a Novia Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
and to make the recommended investments was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2013 Miss M was introduced to Portal for it to conduct a pension review. She accepted 
and between November that year and February 2014 information was gathered about her 
circumstances, objectives and matters such as her attitude to risk.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 22 February 2014 in which it identified Miss Ms 
objectives were:
- Improved performance
- Specific investment (move away from equity backed funds)
- Future drawdown
- More flexibility
Ultimately Miss M was persuaded to switch her Legal & General (L&G) personal pension 
worth £54,759 into a SIPP with Novia. Her money was moved across on 24 March 2014. An 
initial Portal adviser charge was made of £2,738 the same day. By 10 June 2014 the 
recommended investments had been made into 11 separate funds plus a cash account. 
Around 60% of her pension pot was placed in structured property funds.
Miss M complained to Portal on 15 January 2020. She said it was only around the point of 
retiring when she became aware that certain of her investments were unregulated and 
illiquid. She said the investments made in structured property funds werent suitable for her 
attitude to risk.
Portal sent Miss M its final response on 12 March 2020. It set out why it thought the advice it 
had given her had been suitable. It noted that its recommendations enabled her to meet her 
objectives. And that although some of the investments it recommended may not have been 
regulated, its advice had been and so she always had necessary protections in place.
The Investigator recommended that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Miss M had the knowledge or experience to fully understand the switch of her pension or the 
recommended investments. 
Portal disagreed with the Investigator, so Miss Ms case has been passed to me for review 
and a decision. I issued my provisional decision in February. Neither party had any new 
evidence or arguments for me to consider, so I see no reason to depart from my initial 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Miss Ms case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Miss M. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook contains 
eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Miss Ms best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between her 
former pension and the recommended new arrangement.In 2009 the FCA, then the Financial Services Authority, published a checklist for pension 
switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it thought should be 
focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated 
collective investment scheme).
Even if the structured property funds Miss M was invested in werent technically a UCIS, 
they share similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being 
illiquid, subject to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are 
relevant to my consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in 2014 the regulator issued an alert on this matter, it said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
This wasnt new guidance; it was the regulator re-stating its position.
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents supplied by Portal relating to its transaction with Miss M that 
are important to my consideration, these include the Client Information Form and Pension 
Options Personal Financial Questionnaire, which together equate to the fact-find. And its 
suitability report.
Portal had to obtain information from Miss M to understand essential facts about her. In 
order to advise her to switch her pension funds into the SIPP with Novia and facilitate 
investments in the funds it recommended it had to believe that:- The service or recommended transaction met Miss Ms investment objectives 
(including her attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long she wanted to 
invest for).
- Miss M was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
- Miss M had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Portal hasnt met these obligations.
Miss M was approaching 60 at the time of Portals advice. She was single with no financial 
dependents. She was employed as a machinist, earning about £1,000 per month. Her 
monthly outgoings were around £800. She owned her home worth approximately £70,000. 
There was no outstanding mortgage.
Miss M had shares in Halifax and approximately £10,000 cash in an individual savings 
account (ISA). She also had a single life endowment policy  but no further details were 
captured by Portal. She had no other assets or liabilities.
Miss M is recorded as previously holding two pensions, one which had matured in 2002 and 
one which had transferred in 2007. Since Portal havent noted she had any pension income 
at the time of the advice, Ive assumed any benefits had been used or transferred to her 
remaining personal pension, which is the subject of this complaint.
Miss M was also said to be a member of her employers pension scheme. Her employer 
made contributions of 3%, as did she. But Portal didnt obtain any information about how 
long shed been a member, what type of pension it was, what benefits might be available, or 
indeed whether there was any connection with the personal pensions it had recorded.
The focus of Miss Ms complaint is her L&G pension. In the absence of complete 
information, Ive assumed that even if this wasnt her only provision, it did represent a 
substantial element of her pot required to generate an income in retirement. Miss M was said 
to have a state pension and chosen retirement age of 65.
Portals suitability report said Miss M wanted improved performance from her pension pot. 
She wanted to move away from equity backed funds. She wanted more flexibility. And she 
wanted the possibility to drawdown funds in the future.
I dont find the objectives captured by Portal for Miss M to be a compelling set of reasons, 
certainly given the lack of any depth to what was recorded. For example, as well see later, 
her thoughts about equity backed funds didnt seem deep seated. And she wasnt planning 
to take tax-free cash or an income from her benefits any time soon.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Miss M 
about what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up 
over many years are to provide for retirement. Switching a pension is a significant decision.
It was Portals role to discern what Miss Ms wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it did these things.
Risk appetite assessment
I dont believe either party would dispute that Miss M wasnt an investment professional. She 
wasnt a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems she had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to her
Portal conducted a risk appetite assessment for Miss M. It concluded she had a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk. This was defined in the following terms:
Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be fairly 
experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the past.
In general, Moderately Adventurous investors are willing to take on investment risk and 
understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to 
take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets.
Moderately Adventurous investors will usually take gambles where they see the potential 
rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial 
matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out badly, 
they are usually able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-
term investment.
Some of the responses Miss M gave to the questions that were part of Portals risk appetite 
assessment are revealing, for example:
-People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  no strong opinion
-I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market - disagree
-I generally look for safer investments, even if lower returns  no strong opinion
-I find investment matters easy to understand  no strong opinion
-Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters - agree
-I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity - no strong opinion
-I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  agree
-I find investment matters easy to understand  no strong opinion
-I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares  no strong opinion
-I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  agree
-Im concerned by the volatility of the stock market  no strong opinion
-I feel comfortable about investing in property - agree
-I have little experience of investing in property agree
-I prefer alternative investments which are considered to be less volatile, even if it 
reduces liquidity - no strong opinion
I accept Miss Ms responses to two other questions mayve indicated a healthy appetite to 
take risk and all information gathered needs to be taken together and reviewed.
But I cant find any proper exploration of what underpinned Portals assessment of her risk 
appetite. At first blush, the responses Miss M gave to Portal do not indicate an experienced 
investor with a strong appetite for risk. They indicate rather the opposite.
Ive not found evidence of any discussion that took place between Portal and Miss M to 
tease out the apparent contradictions in her responses on risk appetite. Rather, it seems her 
answers were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner without further 
enquiry.Further, I dont think the risks of switching Miss Ms pension funds into a SIPP enabling the 
recommended investments were adequately weighed.
Portal recommended Miss M invest nearly 60% of her pension provision into structured 
property funds, some of which were overseas. These were described in the following terms:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC - Secured on a successfully trading UK Holiday village in 
Cornwall, England. The proceeds of this bond are being used by the developer to build new 
holiday villas and an apart hotel to satisfy the increasing tourist demand. The Bond term is 
five years with 11% interest paid annually in arrears and then every 3 months from year 2. 
70% of all sales will be held in escrow to pay back the loan interest and the loan.
Real Estate Investments USA PLC - Secured on US residential property (mainly in Florida, 
Chicago and Detroit) which is being bought back from banks, refurbished and sold to onward 
pre-determined investors. The Bond pays 15% per annum, paid annually in arrears and has 
a term of 5 years
Strategic Residential Developments PLC - The Bond term is for 5 years, with 11% paid 
annually in arrears. Loaned monies are used to source and purchase existing houses in the 
South of England with potential development plots within their grounds, using a sophisticated 
software programme, plots which will then be sold separately and developed. Security will be 
taken over these houses once purchased and released when sold.
Im surprised that specific warnings around counterparties, development and valuation 
uncertainty were not more clearly brought to her attention. Portal has since acknowledged 
these were medium-high risk funds. But it still maintains they were suitable for Miss M.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Miss Ms pension funds were 
being invested, Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that she was a sufficiently 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks she was taking on. And she had no experience 
of the specialist bond instrument.
Im also concerned that Miss Ms capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been thought 
through properly. Although Portal did consider this important aspect of Miss Ms 
circumstances in the suitability report, all Ive seen is a list of questions it said it asked her. 
But I havent seen the responses she gave.
Nevertheless, from the fact-find exercise we know enough to conclude Miss M had a low 
capacity for loss. She had modest earnings and little by way of disposable income. She had 
limited assets or savings to fall back on. Her L&G pension was likely her only significant 
pension provision.
Miss M only had another five years before her planned retirement date. Yet the small-print 
on the structured property funds allowed for maturity of the bonds to be extended up to 
seven years. This wasnt acknowledged effectively in the suitability report. Rather this aspect 
of how the bonds worked was revealed some years later in one of the annual reviews she 
received.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations rather 
than providing effective advice about what was in Miss Ms best interests concerning her 
valuable pension funds. Like the Investigator, based on what Ive seen, I think a more 
realistic assessment of her risk outlook was somewhere between cautious and perhaps 
balanced.
Fees and charges of the new arrangementsPortal didnt set out in its suitability report what fees and charges Miss M was incurring when 
her pension was with L&G.
In respect of the advice and new arrangements, Portal charged 5% of the value of her fund 
for its initial advice (around £2,700). It charged her 1% of the value of her funds each year 
for ongoing advice. Novia charged her 0.5% of her fund value each year. And there were 
additional annual management charges applied by the funds she was invested in  although 
these werent detailed in the report.
Portal told Miss M:
Overall, this strategy may cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed. The charges and effects of the charges are shown in full, in the 
key features document and illustration.
I think Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges she would incur in the new 
arrangements compared to her former pension plans. While it did provide a nuanced note 
that the new arrangement may be more expensive, I dont think that was sufficiently 
transparent.
The options available to Miss M
Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it effectively explored the options available to 
Miss M. We asked for a copy of the policy documents for Miss Ms L&G pension plan. Portal 
said due to the historic nature of the case it didnt have these. It knows how important it is to 
retain key documents relating to matters like pensions.
I dont know what flexibilities Miss Ms L&G provided for, in terms of switching between funds 
if shed wanted to take on more risk. And if that wasnt possible, whether her pension 
provider at the time wouldve allowed her to transfer to a more suitable product with no or 
reduced charges. And this analysis is missing from the suitability report.
Portal was making a case to Miss M that the returns from her new arrangements would be 
such they would more than make up for the additional charges. I havent seen a copy of any 
illustrations showing the effect of the charges in her new pension arrangements on potential 
returns. Neither have I seen a comparison between her L&G pension and her Novia SIPP of 
potential net returns.
Even if L&G couldnt have delivered what Miss M required, given the issues Ive identified 
with Portals approach on assessing Miss Ms risk appetite and my concerns about the 
substantial increase in costs she was incurring with the new arrangements it recommended, 
its more likely than not there were cheaper and more appropriate options available to her.
Overall, I dont think Portal shouldve recommended Miss M switch her L&G pension into a 
relatively expensive arrangement providing her with ongoing advice, with a Novia SIPP and 
the investment funds it recommended, the bulk of which were high risk. I say this because of 
the flaws Ive found in its advice process; what it knew about her attitude to risk and capacity 
for loss; and her lack of experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Portal was aware Miss M was being exposed to significant risks in the investments it was 
facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Miss M might have difficulty getting 
access to her pension funds.I think if Portal had given Miss M effective advice, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
switch from her personal pension plan into the SIPP and the medium-high-risk portfolio it 
recommended. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against 
the recommendations received.
Given her relative proximity to retirement, her likely risk appetite and the increased cost/and 
or risk associated with most of the alternatives, I think its more likely than not Miss M 
wouldve opted to retain her L&G policy.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Miss Ms personal pension funds into the Novia SIPP 
and the recommended portfolio of investments could sensibly be regarded as fair to her. As 
such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing her with advice 
and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Miss Ms case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
If Portal had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Miss M wouldve switched personal 
pension funds into the Novia SIPP, and so she wouldnt have suffered the financial loss 
shes potentially facing. I think its most likely she wouldve left her pension where it was. So 
Portal Financial Services LLP needs to do the following.
1. Calculate a notional loss Miss M has suffered as a result of making the switch of her 
pension funds from L&G
Portal Financial Services LLP should obtain the notional value of Miss Ms previous personal 
pension plan with L&G, as at the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been transferred to 
the Novia SIPP. It will need to obtain the value of the plan as previously invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then it should use a hybrid 
benchmark, using a 50/50 split of (i) the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) and 
(ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve been achieved if Miss Ms pension had remained invested in her 
previous plan.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Portal should then find the current value of her SIPP, including investments and any cash 
held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2. Im not 
aware of the detailed position regarding any additional contributions that Miss M made to her 
SIPP. Similarly, whether she has withdrawn funds. After confirming the detailed position, 
then the value Portal obtains or the calculations Portal makes should assume these 
adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Miss Ms 
former personal pension and the equivalent current value of her SIPP will be her basic 
financial loss that Portal needs to redress.
As I understand it, Miss M paid all her fees via her SIPP fund. If thats the case, the 
methodology above will ensure she is restored to the position she shouldve been in. 
However, if she paid any of the fees directly using other sources of money and she can 
evidence this, then Portal will need to reimburse her. If any fees were paid in this way then it 
will need to add 8% simple interest per annum, from the date she paid the charges until it 
settles.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Miss M how much has 
been taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Miss Ms SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Portal Financial Services LLP should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount 
its willing to accept as a commercial value for the investments and Portal can then pay this 
to take ownership of them.
If Portal is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Portal has 
compensated Miss M fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask her to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investments.
Any undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Miss M 
may receive from the investment and any eventual sums she would be able to access from 
the SIPP. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Miss Ms pension so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Miss Ms pension, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that she is in the same position as if shed stayed in her 
original personal pension plan.
If paying compensation into Miss M s pension would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and Portal Financial Services LLP takes on her 
investment, then it should pay her compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make 
a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss M s actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Miss M is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Miss M would have been able to take TFC, the reduction should only be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Portal should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date of calculation to the date 
of payment at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Portal deducts tax it 
should provide Miss M with a tax certificate.Portal should also provide details of its calculations to Miss M in a clear format.
4. SIPP fees
If the investments arent removed from Miss Ms SIPP, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay her an amount 
equivalent to five years of future fees. This should allow enough time for the issues with the 
investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Portal wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments under the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. 
If Portal fails to pay the SIPP fees, Miss M should then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
Distress and inconvenience
I also think Miss M has been caused trouble and upset because of Portal Financial Services 
LLPs failings. Her retirement planning has been disrupted. In recognition of this it should 
pay her a further £300.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. As such, I require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman