DRN-1267496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say National Westminster Bank Plc is charging them more for their mortgage 
than was agreed. They say they were told it would be £902.50 a month including interest, 
but when they've looked at their mortgage account they can see interest has been charged 
separately. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out this buy-to-let mortgage in February 2019, when they remortgaged it 
from being a commercial loan (as it was previously their commercial premises). Each month 
Mr and Mrs L have paid £902.50 by direct debit, but they complained to NatWest that there 
is a separate transaction each month for interest.
NatWest explained to Mr and Mrs L that it wasn't charging them extra for interest, as part of 
the £902.50 each month goes towards paying the interest and the rest comes off the capital. 
It provided some examples for each month, and explained the amount of interest would vary 
depending on how many days there were in the month and the outstanding balance of the 
mortgage (as the interest is calculated daily, but only debited monthly).
Our investigator explained it again to Mr and Mrs L, but they don't agree and so it's been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've got very little I can add to the explanations already provided by NatWest and by our 
investigator as both were right. It seems Mr and Mrs L have misinterpreted their mortgage 
transaction history, which is entirely understandable as they're not mortgage professionals.
Each month Mr and Mrs L pay £902.50 to their mortgage on the 5th of the month. That 
amount covers the interest due as well as paying a sum off the capital. If Mr and Mrs L's 
interest rate didn't change for the entire term of the mortgage, and they made all those 
payments in full and on time each month then their mortgage would be fully repaid at the end 
of the term.
Mr and Mrs L aren't being charged the interest twice. There are two transactions on the 
mortgage account each month;
on the 5th Mr and Mrs L's direct debit payment of £902.50 is credited to the account, 
and reduces the balance by that much, and
on the 25th an amount is debited from the account for the interest due on the debt 
and that increases the balance by that much.
 If the amount of interest that is charged is deducted from the £902.50, what's left is the 
amount Mr and Mrs L are paying off the capital each month. Mr and Mrs L aren't paying for 
the interest separately, or on top of the £902.50. It's included in that figure, it's just that the 
two transactions are listed separately on the mortgage transaction history; with the £902.50 
coming in, and the interest amount (of around £200 variable) going out. If the separate 
interest transaction wasn't included then Mr and Mrs L would have an interest-free mortgage 
as every penny of their £902.50 payment would come off their mortgage balance. I'm sure 
they'll agree that wasn't the contract they entered into, therefore there has to be an interest 
debit in the transaction history for it to work.
If Mr and Mrs L wish to check the figures there are free calculators available on the internet 
for them to do so, such as www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk/en/tools/mortgage-calculator. By 
entering the information from their mortgage offer (a mortgage of £94,500 over a 10-year 
term with an interest rate of 2.77%) this says the repayment amount would be £902.50 and 
interest-only would be £218.14. So each month around £218.14 would go towards the 
interest (albeit this figure varies depending on how many days there are in the month and 
how much the outstanding mortgage balance is) which broadly ties in with the figures on Mr 
and Mrs L's transaction history.
Most mortgage lenders run their mortgages in the same (or broadly similar) way; this is in no 
way unique to NatWest or to Mr and Mrs L's account. All I can do is reassure Mr and Mrs L 
that they're being asked for the correct payments, and NatWest isn't overcharging (or double 
charging) them interest. It's simply a misunderstanding on Mr and Mrs L's part about the 
transactions as they appear in the transaction history.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman