DRN-3931094
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the delays he experienced when transferring his pension away 
from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to another platform. Mr H says he has lost 
out on investment potential because of the delays. 
What happened
Mr H held his pension with Aviva. In May 2021 Mr H wanted to transfer his pension to 
another platform that I shall refer to as Company A in this decision. 
Mr H experienced delays during the transfer and complained to Aviva. It didnt uphold his 
complaint. In its response it said;
It explained the process for in specie transfers, cash transfers or a mixture of both.
The new provider might not accept all the assets in specie, and some may need to 
be sold which is what happened in Mr Hs case.
It provided a timeline of the transfer of the pension and concluded it wasnt 
responsible for any delay.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
He outlined the timings of the transfer.
He concluded that Aviva had carried out its part in the transfer process within a 
reasonable timeframe.
Mr H didnt agree with the outcome and requested his complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for decision. Mr H also provided further 
submission for my consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
Mr H has provided a detailed and lengthy submission for my consideration for which I thank 
him. In my decision I have not addressed all of the points and comments made by Mr H  
only those that I consider are salient to this complaint. However, I would like to assure Mr H 
that I have thoroughly reviewed all of the information and comments he has provided. 
I know the parties are aware of the timeline of the transfer but for completeness I include it 
here;
13.05.21 Aviva receive the pension transfer request.
14.05.21 The request is allocated to Avivas in specie team.
17.05.21 A valuation of the pension is sent to Company A.
18.06.21 Acceptance of the transfer received from Company A via email.
21.06.21 Acceptance processed by Aviva. Three funds are to be transferred to 
Company A plus one CREST transfer. Three funds are to be sold as 
these arent supported on Company As platform.
28.06.21 Transfers completed and sale instructions placed for the three funds 
to be sold.
05.07.21 Sales completed and cash sent via CHAPS and email confirmation to 
Company A.
Its clear from the above that the delay in the transfer was between 17 May and 18 June. It 
wasnt until the latter date that the acceptance of the transfer was received from Company A. 
If it werent for that delay the transfer would have completed within around one month which 
I dont consider to be unreasonable. 
I cant agree that Aviva was responsible for any of the delay between 17 May and 18 June 
as it was waiting for instruction from Company A about the transfer. Aviva has told us once 
the valuation was provided to Company A it wouldnt take any further action until it received 
confirmation that the transfer was going ahead or cancelled. It had carried out the action it 
needed to by sending the valuation of Mr Hs SIPP to Company A. So, I dont think it needed 
to be any more proactive than that as there was nothing more for it to do pending instruction 
from Company A about what action Mr H wanted to take. 
I understand that as part of the transfer there were three assets that werent supported on 
Company As platform, so instruction was needed about any action that was needed to be 
taken with those. I understand that on 18 June 2021 Mr H informed Company A that he 
wanted those assets to be sold. It was at that point that Company A sent Aviva its 
acceptance of the transfer and instruction for the assets to be sold. And as a result of that it 
can be seen from the above that those instructions were acted upon by Aviva, and in what I 
think to be a timely manner.  
So, taking all of the above into account, I cant agree that Aviva is responsible for any delays 
Mr H experienced when transferring his SIPP to Company A. I think its clear how the delay 
arose and theres nothing to suggest that Aviva was responsible for that delay.
I know Mr H feels strongly about his complaint, that is evident from the submissions he has 
made, but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the decision that I 
have in not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman