DRN-2699211
The complaint
Mr M complains, through his representative, that Bradford & Bingley Plc gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer out of his occupational pension scheme in 1994. The representative also 
said that the compensation Mr M subsequently received as part of the regulators pension 
review didnt make good the losses he had suffered as a result of the transfer.
What happened
In brief, in 1994 Mr M was advised to transfer the deferred benefits that he had in a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension arrangement. 
The advice that hed been given was subsequently investigated as part of the regulators 
industry wide pension review. This looked at pension business conducted between 29 April 
1988 and 30 June 1994.
Bradford & Bingley sent Mr M a letter dated 30 November 2000 saying that it had completed 
a review of his pension policy and it was making an offer of redress regarding the advice 
hed been given. The letter said Mr M's former OPS wouldnt accept reinstatement. Bradford 
& Bingley therefore offered to pay compensation into Mr Ms personal pension policy. Mr M 
accepted the offer in December 2000. His pension was augmented in January 2001 with 
£3,527.
Mr M, through his representative, complained to Bradford and Bingley in February 2020. 
Bradford and Bingley didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr M had been offered the 
opportunity to have the sale reviewed as part of the regulators pension review. He had 
agreed for it to be investigated. It said the investigation had been carried out in accordance 
with the terms set out by the regulator at the time. And Mr M had been offered 
compensation that he had accepted in full and final settlement of the matter. It said it 
therefore wasnt prepared to investigate the advice further.
Mr M referred his complaint to us, and it was considered by one of our investigators. The 
investigator said, in summary, that when Bradford & Bingley had reviewed the advice as part 
of the pension review it had determined that a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. As it 
wasnt possible to re-instate Mr M back into the OPS, Bradford & Bingley had calculated the 
loss that Mr M had suffered using the methodology set out by the regulator at the time. And it 
had subsequently paid compensation into Mr Ms pension plan. 
The investigator said although she understood that Mr M had found he was still worse off 
than if he had stayed in his OPS, she didnt think that meant the calculation needed to be 
redone. She said the aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any 
pension mis-selling, it was a one-off exercise and from everything shed seen, Bradford & 
Bingley had carried out the review as it was required to do. So the investigator didnt 
recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr Ms representative said that Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. It said Bradford 
& Bingley had failed to demonstrate that it had carried out the review in accordance with the 
applicable regulatory standards. It said, as such, the FCAs FG2017/9 guidance should be 
used to determine appropriate redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has complained about the suitability of the advice that hed been given to transfer his 
OPS benefits in 1994. However when Bradford & Bingley reviewed the advice as part of the 
regulators industry wide review of pension business, it effectively conceded that the transfer 
hadnt been in Mr Ms best interests and offered Mr M compensation. Ive not therefore 
considered the merits of the advice to transfer itself; its already accepted that Mr M was due 
compensation. What Ive considered is whether the firm needs to revisit the compensation it 
offered to Mr M in 2000, and which Mr M accepted.
In the 1990s the regulator had identified there had been potentially widespread pension mis-
selling, and as a result set up the industry wide review of pensions business as referred to 
above. The aim of the review was to provide consumers who had been inappropriately 
advised with redress, where due.  
The firm had a regulatory obligation to carry out its review, and in accordance with the 
standards that were set out by the regulator at the time. Our investigator said that she 
thought Bradford and Bingley had carried out the review as it was required to do. In 
response to the investigators findings, Mr Ms representative said Bradford & Bingley had 
failed to demonstrate that it had carried out the review in accordance with the applicable 
regulatory standards. 
Mr Ms representative hasnt provided any reasons why it considers the review wasnt 
carried out correctly. And I havent seen evidence of any failings in the pension review that 
Bradford & Bingley completed. Im not persuaded that the review wasnt carried out in 
accordance with the regulatory standards required at the time. 
In making the complaint, Mr Ms representative said the compensation Mr M received under 
the pension review didnt make good the losses he had suffered as a result of the transfer. 
As it wasnt possible to re-instate Mr M back into his OPS, the firm were required to calculate 
Mr Ms losses using a methodology that was set out in detail in the regulators pension 
review guidance. In many cases investors retirement dates were several years or more 
away, and a number of actuarial assumptions were used in the calculations. 
Although it was thought that the compensation paid through the review, when added to the 
value of the personal pension, would be high enough to match the OPS benefits at 
retirement date, this hasnt turned out to be the case for a number of investors. This is often 
a result of a disparity between some of the future assumptions used in the calculations, and 
what actually turned out to be the case. So I accept that Mr M may not have received 
sufficient compensation to put him back into the position that he would have been in if hed 
remained within the OPS, and clearly I understand he will be unhappy with that position.
However the regulator agreed on the assumptions after careful consideration, they were 
regularly reviewed, and thought to be reasonable at the time. If things had turned out 
differently, they could have worked in investors favour. The pension review was designed to 
address potential mis-selling for thousands of investors. The regulator decided that firms 
should review sales and provide compensation, where appropriate, at the time. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, and as the investigator explained, to draw a line 
under the matter. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the pension review wasnt carried out correctly. In my 
view Bradford and Bingley carried out the pension review and offered appropriate 
compensation to Mr M as it was required to do at the time by the regulator. I dont think it has 
acted unfairly in those circumstances. So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded 
that there are grounds to require Bradford and Bingley to revisit the matter now.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman