DRN-4034008
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he says he received to transfer three pensions to a self- 
invested personal pension ('SIPP'). The transfer proceeds were invested in an unregulated 
investment scheme that has since failed. Mr B says the advice to transfer wasn't suitable 
because the proposed investment was too high risk for him. He holds Wellington Court 
Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in our preliminary findings issued by an 
investigator on my behalf and with my instruction. Ill set out those findings and the 
background to these below. This forms part of my decision.
In April  2015, an unregulated  firm called  Alternative  Pension  Investments  Ltd 
contacted  Mr B's pension  providers  and requested  information  about  his 
policies.  He held:
A deferred  annuity  with Aviva.
A personal  pension  with Aviva, invested  in its with-profits  fund.
A personal  pension  with Standard  Life.
Mr B's representative  says  that at this time he was a self-employed  taxi-driver  
earning  £10-  25,000pa,  married,  aged  60, had no previous  investment  
experience,  a low attitude  to risk and a low capacity  for loss.
By 17 June  2015, all his pensions  had been  transferred  to a SIPP  provided  by 
Guinness  Mahon  Trust  Corporation  Limited  ('GMTC').  On 21 July 2015,  £71,000  
of the £75,214.29 transferred  was invested  in a Dolphin  Capital five-year  loan 
note.  1% of the transfer  value  was paid to Wellington  Court  as an 'IFA Fee'.
Dolphin  has since  failed,  with Mr B losing  the entirety  of his investment.
Mr B's representative  says  he was advised  this was the only way he could  access  
his tax-free  cash,  but now he's over the age where he's able to take this, he can't  
due to the collapse  of the Dolphin Capital investment.
Wellington  Court  says  it didn't  give Mr B any advice  and Mr B has never  been  
its customer.  It says  any paperwork  linking  Mr B to Wellington Court  is 
fraudulent  and denies  that it has any responsibility  for the complaint.  So, the 
matter  was passed  to me for a decision.
What  I've decided  - and why
Whilst  I've considered  this case  on its own merits - relevant  information  has 
also been  drawn  from  many  other  cases  with very similar  circumstances  
against  Wellington  Court.
Wellington  Court  have  been  given  detailed  views  and decisions  outlining  our 
findings  and setting  out the evidence  we've  collated  that corroborates  our view  
of its role in these  cases.
Despite  this Wellington  Court  hasn't  provided  credible  explanations  for the 
evidence  that points  to it being  responsible  for the unsuitable  pension  transfers  
in question  and losses  that flow from  them.
And so, I don't  think  it is necessary to set out all of this information  in detail  
again.  Below,  is a summary  of the evidence  which  has led me to conclude  that 
Wellington  Court  is responsible  for the transfers  of Mr B's pensions  and the 
losses  that flow from  them.
Wellington  Court  have  argued  the complaint  isn't within  our jurisdiction  to consider.  The 
activities  in question  were  carried  on from  an establishment  in the UK. Wellington  Court  is a 
regulated  business.  Mr B brought  his complaint  to us within  the relevant  time limits  and it's 
difficult  to argue  Mr B wasn't its customer  given  it knowingly  accepted  the 1% payment  in 
relation  to Mr B and the transfer  wouldn't  have  happened  if it hadn't  been  for its 
involvement.  With  all the above  in mind , I'm satisfied  that this is a complaint  I can 
consider.
GMTC  has provided  evidence  that Wellington  Court  was the adviser  for Mr B's SIPP.  This 
includes  an internal  summary  of Mr B's SIPP  detailing  a Mr P of Wellington  Court  as his 
adviser  and the SIPP  statements  showing  that a fee would be payable  to Wellington  
Court.
In other  similar  cases,  we've seen  SIPP  applications  submitted  on Wellington  Court  
headed  paper,  as well as signed  agreements  from  consumers  that Wellington  Court  had 
provided  advice  and that a fee would  be payable  to them.  This documentation  is all 
signed  on behalf  of Mr P of Wellington  Court  - the signature  is indecipherable  but Mr P's 
name  is also hand-written  but had initially  been  spelt  incorrectly  - you can see there's  
been  a correction.
Wellington  Court  have  provided  a witness  statement  from  Mr P, who says  he had only at 
that point  agreed  to provide  ad hoc transfer  advice  to GMTC  about  which  cases  had 
safeguarded  or final salary  benefits  so these  could  be filtered  out. He says  he (and  
Wellington  Court)  didn't  give specific  advice  to any particular  customer  (barring  three  test 
customers).  He says  the paperwork  referred  to above  was not produced  by him and he and 
Wellington  Court  had no knowledge  of it. I accept  that given  the presentation  of the 
paperwork  above  this seems  plausible.
Wellington  Court  hasn't  kept any documents  relating  to its consultancy  work  with GMTC  
even  though  it wasn't  a particularly  long time ago.
However, statements  show  the SIPP  paid a fee detailed  as 'Wellington  IFA Fee' from  Mr 
B's SIPP  comprising  1% of the total amount  transferred.  This was in line with the 1% fee 
agreed  on the SIPP  applications  on other  similar  cases .
Bank  records  show  GMTC  paid Wellington  Court  the SIPP  advice  fees taken  from  many  
customers  in regular  tranches  for at least  six months  and this totalled  approximately
£87,000. The payments  were  shown  to be taken  from  SIPP  customers  who Wellington  
Court  say they're completely unaware  of. Wellington  Court  won't provide  its unredacted  
bank  statements  from  this period  but two of the tranches  do show  on their bank  
statements  - so it's fair to conclude  they likely  received  all this money  and potentially  
more.
There  is a clear  audit  trail that the fees paid by the SIPP  provider  to Wellington  Court  
were  paid for advice  and not consultancy.  The fee amount  of 1% is more  indicative of an 
advice  fee rather  than a checking  service  that Wellington  Court  argues  it provided.
The transfers  to the Orbis  SIPP  appear  to have  been  initiated  by introducers  who sourced  
potential  clients  and did much  of the work  in terms  of getting  clients  into a position  to 
transfer.  And then in order  to progress  the transfer,  GMTC  required  the involvement  of an 
advisory  firm. It seems  Wellington  Court  fulfilled  that role.Wellington  Court's  consultancy  work  shows  there  was a working  relationship  between  the 
parties  at the time.  It wouldn't  be a stretch  to say that this could  have  led to Wellington  Court  
doing  other  work  on the transfers, potentially  with the minimum  of paperwork  - especially  as 
both organisations  were  based  in the same  town  when  the transfers  were  taking  place  and Mr P 
spent  time in GMTC's  offices.
The increase  in Wellington  Court's  income  over the period  in question  is largely  down  to the 
fees received  from the SIPP  provider. So, it's not plausible  it didn't  notice  these  payments.  
Furthermore,  Wellington  Court  have  provided  no evidence  of any consultancy  work,  yet there  is 
evidence  they were  paid a fee for advice  for the transfers  in question  such  as Mr B's.
Wellington  Court  has said it was a victim  of fraud.  It's a serious  allegation  and yet Wellington  
Court  hasn't  (based  on the available  evidence)  reported  its concerns  to the appropriate  
authorities  (the police  for instance)  or even  done  much  to investigate  the matter  itself  beyond  
telling  us, and many  complainants, that it wasn't involved.  So, it's difficult  to give Wellington  
Court's allegations  too much  credence  given  its own lack of action  on the alleged  fraud.
Instead, I think  it's most  likely  that Wellington  Court  knowingly  received  a 1% advisory  fee in 
relation  to Mr B's transfer  and many  other  transfers.
It's not uncommon  for an introducer  to drive  the process  of transferring  a pension  with the 
intention  of investing  in a particular  scheme.  And introducers  often  carry  out the majority  of 
the fact-finding  directly  with the customer  before  involving  a regulated  adviser  to complete  the 
process. In some  instances, customers  will not meet  with or speak  to the firm providing  the 
advice. So, I don't  think  customers  saying  they didn't speak  to a representative  of Wellington  
Court,  or who were  unaware  of its involvement,  is particularly  unusual.
In order  to proceed  with the transfer, GMTC  needed  to have  confidence  that advice  had been  
given  to Mr B. The paperwork  that would  have  been  submitted, such  as the covering  letter  
from Wellington  Court,  confirmed  Mr B had appointed  them  to provide  him with advice.  And 
GMTC's 'New  Business  Sign Off Sheet'  would  have  stated  Mr B had been  advised  on the 
transfer  of his pensions.  So, I think  the transfer  proceeded  on the basis  that Wellington  Court  
had advised  Mr B to do so.
There's a lack of paperwork  to show  what,  if anything, Wellington  Court  did in return  for its 
advice  fee. I don't  know  if this was due to an oversight  on its part - that is, it didn't  fully 
understand  what  it should  have  done  given  the regulations  in place  at the time - or whether  it 
knew  its actions  were  negligent.  Either  way,  it seems  Wellington  Court's  involvement was little 
more  than "window  dressing",  providing  a veneer  of advice  to satisfy  GMTC  in return  for a 1% 
fee on a large  number  of transfers.
Questioning  GMTC's role in what  happened  is reasonable.  But it doesn't necessarily  follow  
from this that GMTC  was acting  fraudulently  or that Wellington  Court  wasn't involved.  In order  
to perpetrate  the fraud  that Wellington  Court  has alleged,  GMTC  would  have  been  reliant  on 
Wellington  Court  not noticing  a series  of unsolicited, but substantial,  payments  into its bank  
account  over an extended  period  and on those  people  that transferred  (of which  there  are 
many  dozens)  not questioning  Wellington  Court  at any point.  I don't  think  it's likely  that GMTC  
would  have  taken  its chances  in this way unless,  of course, it had some  sort of understanding  
with Wellington  Court  - in which  case  Wellington  Court's  involvement  is still key to what  
happened.
Whatever  the extent  of Wellington  Court's  contact  with Mr B, it was still nonetheless  engaged  
in an advisory  capacity  in relation  to his transfer  - and the transfer  of many  other  pensions  
too. The absence  of any of the usual  paperwork  one would  expect  from an advice  process,  and 
the absence  of substantive  testimony  about  meetings  with Wellington  Court,  doesn't  change  
any of this. It just means  Wellington  Court  didn't  properly  advise  Mr B, and others,  despite  
being  paid to do so.
Furthermore,  it's worth  noting  that victims  of scams  wouldn't usually  receive  tens of thousands  
of pounds  from the alleged  scammer  - and there  appears  to be little doubt  that Wellington  Court  
did receive  these  sorts  of sums  and were  aware  of this.
In regard  to the suitability  of the transfer  and investments  made,  I'm satisfied  the transaction  
wasn't suitable  for Mr B. I say this because  the investments  were  non-mainstream,  high risk, and unregulated  investments.  Mr B doesn't  appear  to have  had the degree  of investment  
knowledge  or risk appetite  meaning  such  an investment  would  have  been  required.  I also don't  
think  Mr B would  have  needed  to transfer  his pensions  to a SIPP,  given  the costs  involved  in 
doing  so. All things  considered; therefore,  I don't  think  the transfer  was suitable  for him.
I think  if Mr B hadn't been  approached  about  this investment,  he would've remained  in his 
current  pension  arrangements  until he decided  to take his benefits.
In conclusion,  Wellington  Court  is responsible  for Mr B transferring  into an arrangement  that was 
unsuitable  for him and is responsible for any loss that follows  from this.
In response  to the above,  Mr Bs representatives  said they accepted  the findings.  
Wellington  Court  did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst the findings are specific to this case, they are also in-line with the findings weve 
reached on many other similar complaints previously and I am satisfied that Wellington Court 
has had more than enough opportunity to respond. Wellington Court hasnt responded on 
each specific case rather sporadically across the various cases. And I note more recently 
and after many of the cases had already been decided, we received correspondence from a  
firm acting on behalf of Wellington Court (on this particular case but referring to all cases). 
Ive considered the points raised by the solicitor. But the points raised are not new and have 
already been addressed in our findings issued on previous cases and in the findings set out 
above in relation to Mr Bs case.
As weve received no further arguments from either party, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out above.
Fair compensation
In assessing  what  would  be fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mr B as 
close  as possible  to the position  he would  probably  now be in if he had 
been  given  suitable  advice.
I think  Mr B would  have  remained  with his previous  providers;  I'm satisfied  
what  I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable, taking  this into account  
and given  Mr B's circumstances  and objectives  when  he invested.
Putting things right
To compensate  Mr B fairly  Wellington  Court  should:
Compare  the performance  of Mr B's pension  with the notional  values  if it had 
remained with the previous providers.  If the actual  value  is greater  than the 
notional  values , no compensation  is payable.  If the notional  values  are greater  
than the actual  value,  there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.
Wellington  Court  should  also add any interest  set out below  to the compensation  
payable.
If there  is a loss,  Wellington  Court  should  pay into Mr B's pension  plan, to 
increase  its value  by the amount  of the compensation  and any interest.  Wellington  Court  payment  should  allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available  tax relief. 
Wellington  Court  shouldn't  pay the compensation  into the pension  plan if it would  
conflict  with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Wellington  Court  is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr B's pension  plan,  
Wellington  Court  should pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to 
pay into the plan,  it would  have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore the 
compensation  should  be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that 
would  otherwise  have  been  paid.  This is an adjustment  to ensure  the 
compensation  is a fair amount  - it isn't a payment  of tax to HMRC,  so Mr B won't  
be able to reclaim  any of the reduction  after compensation  is paid.
The notional  allowance  should  be calculated using  Mr B's actual  or expected  
marginal  rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
It's reasonable  to assume  that Mr B is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer  at the 
selected  retirement  age, so the reduction  would  equal  20%.  However,  if Mr B would  
have  been  able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 
75% of the compensation,  resulting  in an overall  reduction  of 15%.
In addition,  Wellington  Court  should  pay Mr B £250  for the disruption  caused  to his 
retirement  planning.
Provide  the details  of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format.
Portfolio  name Status Benchmark From  
("start 
date")To ("end  date") Additional 
interest
Orbis  SIPP Still exists  but 
illiquidNotional  values  
from previous  
providersDate  of 
transfer from 
previous  
providerDate  of 
decision8% per year 
simple  on the 
loss amount  
from the date of 
acceptance  of 
the decision  to 
the date of 
settlement  for 
any time in 
excess  of 90 
days
Actual  value
This means  the actual  amount  payable  from the investment  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  any investment  in the portfolio  is illiquid  (meaning  it cannot  be readily  
sold on the open  market),  it may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the portfolio.  So, 
Wellington  Court  should  take ownership  of any illiquid  investments  within  the portfolio  by 
paying  a commercial  value  acceptable  to the pension  provider.  This amount  Wellington  
Court  pay should be included  in the actual value  before  compensation  is calculated.
If Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the any illiquid  investment  the value  of that 
investment  should  be assumed  to be nil when arriving  at the actual  value  of the portfolio. 
Wellington  Court  may wish to require  that Mr B provides  an undertaking  to pay 
Wellington  Court  any amount  he may receive from that investment in the future.  The undertaking  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be incurred  on drawing  the 
receipt  from the pension  plan. Wellington  Court  will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up 
the undertaking.
Notional  Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment  had it remained  with the previous  provider until the 
end date. Wellington  Court  shou ld request  that the previous provider calculate  this value.
If the previous provider  is unable  to calculate a notional  value , Wellington  Court  will need  
to determine  a fair value  for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income  Total Return  Index ; for the other  half: 
average  rate from fixed  rate bonds.  The adjustments  above  also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using  the benchmark,  which  is then used  instead  of the notional value  in 
the calculation of compensatio n.
The Orbis  SIPP only exists  because  of illiquid  assets. In order for the Orbis  SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged  to be prevented , those  investments  need  to be 
removed.
I've set out above  how this might  be achieved by Wellington  Court  taking  over the 
portfolio, or this is something that Mr B can discuss  with the provider  directly . But I don't 
know  how long that will take.
Third  parties are involved and we don't have  the power  to tell them  what  to do. If 
Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the portfolio, to provide  certa inty to all parties  I 
think  it's fair that Wellington  Court  pay Mr B an upfront  lump  sum equivalent to five years' 
worth  of wrapper  fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should 
provide  a reasonable period for the parties to arrange  for the Orbis SIPP to be closed.
Why  is this remedy  suitable?
I've chosen  this method  of compensation  because:
Mr B wanted  capital growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
If the previous  provider is unable  to calculate  a notional  value (Aviva have confirmed 
that they can), then I consider  the measure  below  is appropriate.
The average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone  who 
wanted  to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income  Tot al Return index  (prior  to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income  total return  index)  is made  up of a range  of indices  
with different asset  classes,  mainly  UK equities and government  bonds.  It's a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider  that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense  that he was prepared  to 
take a small  level of risk to attain his investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would  reasonably  put Mr B into that position.  It does  not mean  that Mr B would  have  
invested  50%  of his money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50%  in some  kind of index  
tracker  investment.  Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects  the sort of return  Mr B could have  obtained  from  investments  suited  to his 
objective  and risk attitude.Determination  and money  award:  
I uphold  this complaint  and require  Wellington  Court  Financial  Services  Limited  to pay 
Mr B the compensation  amount  as set out in the steps  above,  up to a maximum  of 
£160,000.Where  the compensation  amount  does  not exceed  £160,000,  I would  
additionally  require  Wellington  Court  Financial  Services  Limited   to pay Mr B any interest  
on that amount  in full, as set out above.  Where  the compensation  amount  already  
exceeds  £160,000,  I would  only require  Wellington  Court  Financial  Services  Limited  to 
pay Mr B any interest  as set out above  on the sum of £160,000.  
Recommendation:  
If the compensation  amount  exceeds  £160,000,  I also recommend  that Wellington  Court  
Financial  Services  Limited  pays  Mr B the balance.  I would  additionally  recommend  any 
interest  calculated  as set out above  on this balance  to be paid to Mr B. If Mr B accepts  
this decision,  the money  award  becomes  binding  on Wellington  Court  Financial  Services  
Limited.  My recommendation  would  not be binding.  Further,  its unlikely  that Mr B can 
accept  my decision  and go to court  to ask for the balance.  Mr B may want  to consider  
getting  independent  legal  advice  before  deciding  whether  to accept  any final decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint in full and direct Wellington Court Financial Services Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman