DRN-4415385
The complaint
Miss B has complained about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B contacted Accredited to make a claim for an escape of water at her home. Accredited 
accepted the claim, dried the property and said its contractors could carry out the work to 
repair the damage or it could offer a cash settlement.
Miss B later complained to Accredited as she was unhappy about how long it was taking to 
progress her claim, the condition of her home, including how cold it was and issues with her 
kitchen units and the oven. When Accredited replied to the complaint, it said it had arranged 
a joint site visit.
When Miss B complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
there were some unreasonable delays during the claim. She said the flooring issue remained 
unresolved for a few months and it was also unclear why the scope of works took so long to 
finalise. Due to the delays, the exposed floor meant Miss Bs child was hurt and both Miss B 
and her child suffered health problems due to the property not being able to retain heat. Miss 
B also had to chase for updates. However, our investigator said Accredited didnt need to 
provide commercially sensitive information and that she hadnt seen evidence Accredited 
damaged the kitchen. She said Accredited should pay £350 compensation.
As Accredited didnt agree it should pay any compensation, the complaint was referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Accredited first started to deal with the claim, from what I can see, this seemed to 
progress promptly, including the drying taking place. However, after that the claim seemed to 
progress much more slowly and Miss B had to chase both Accredited and the contractors on 
multiple occasions to try and establish what stage the claim was at and what needed to be 
done for it to progress.
A key issue was the scope of works. Im aware it can take time to complete this and that 
changes sometimes need to be made to ensure it is correct. However, I note that shortly 
after the drying was complete, Accredited told Miss B it was looking to finalise the claim and 
if Miss B wanted a cash settlement that a surveyor would confirm the final scope of works. It 
still wasnt finalised a few months later. 
One of the issues with finalising the scope of works, seemed to be the flooring. Accredited 
told this service that Miss B wasnt able to provide it with evidence of the original flooring and 
the quotes provided were for more than the cost allocated in the scope of works, which then 
caused delay. Looking at the records, these showed that Miss B chased both Accredited and 
the contractor to try and get an explanation of what needed to be done to resolve the flooring 
issue. She seemed to be passed from one party to the other. It was later decided that the 
cost allowed for the flooring wasnt enough and was increased by about £10 per square 
metre. So, I think it wasnt initially made clear to Miss B what the flooring issues were and 
what needed to be done to resolve them. I didnt see any reluctance on Miss Bs part to try 
and sort out the flooring issues and, ultimately, the allowance for the flooring was increased. 
There were also some other fairly minor changes to the scope of works and although 
Accredited has said this was necessary, I dont think it has satisfactorily explained why it 
took so long to make all the changes.
Miss B was also concerned about the condition of her home while the work remained 
ongoing. She said her child was scraped on a few occasions because of the condition of the 
floor. She also said they were cold in the house. Accredited has said Miss B was told to put 
her heating on high and that the use of additional heaters should have been explored. 
Accredited, again, suggested to this service Miss B was reluctant to resolve this issue and 
she should have explored ways of heating the property. Looking at the records, Miss B did 
explore options to heat her home. She specifically raised this with Accredited, including 
whether it would pay for heaters. Accredited asked whether the heating was still on high. 
Miss B replied and said it wasnt as high as when drying was ongoing, as Accredited had 
advised it would help with the gas bill at that time. She said if Accredited was advising she 
turn her heating back up to 25 degrees and was still able to assist with the gas bill, she could 
do that. 
Accredited didnt respond to the questions about the heaters or the gas bill, but said it would 
send a contractor to see if it could do anything. Miss B then chased again to say her house 
was still cold. I cant see that Accredited responded to Miss Bs ongoing concerns about how 
cold she and her child were. 
I didnt see a reluctance from Miss B to want to warm her home. Her concern seemed to be 
the potential costs in doing so because of the condition of her home, which she asked 
Accredited for guidance on. I dont think Accredited has shown it provided a satisfactory 
response to Miss B about her concerns, despite her continuing to say she couldnt keep her 
home warm. Im also aware that Miss B explained the distress it was causing her to have to 
keep chasing for the claim to progress.
So, thinking about this, in my view, there were issues Accredited could have progressed 
more quickly and explained more clearly to Miss B. It also didnt seem to properly respond to 
Miss Bs concerns about the conditions she was living in, including how cold her house was 
in the coldest months of the year. As a result, I think Accredited should pay Miss B £350 
compensation to reflect the impact on her of how some aspects of the claim were dealt with.
Im aware Miss B also wanted to see the breakdown of costs in the scope of work. However, 
this is commercially sensitive information, which a business isnt required to provide. It 
provided an unpriced scope of works and a total settlement amount, which I think was 
reasonable. Miss B also said there was damage to her kitchen. However, as I havent seen 
evidence of this, I have no comment to make on this.
Putting things right
Accredited should pay Miss B £350 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision this complaint is upheld. I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Miss B £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman