DRN-3748554
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard since 1995. There were various limits over the years until a limit of 
£12,000 was put in place in December 2013. In April 2016, Barclaycard increased it to 
£13,000. In October 2020, Mr Bs account was identified as being in persistent debt and the 
limit was cancelled. The balance was then £12,587.
Mr B complained that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased his limit in April 2016. They 
didnt contact him or ask him for any details of his salary or means. He said Barclaycard had 
been irresponsible.
Barclaycard said Mr B passed their affordability checks when they increased his limit 
proactively. He was maintaining his account within its terms and conditions. He had been 
pre-advised of the increase in limit and couldve opted out of the increase, but he didnt.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Initially, he also raised a complaint about applying for a 
payment holiday  but Barclaycard then agreed to the holiday and Mr B confirmed he 
wanted us to only look at his complaint about irresponsible lending. Our investigator said that 
it would only be possible to look at the increase in limit in April 2016 as the increases prior to 
that were more than six years before he made his complaint in January 2021. Mr B agreed 
to this. 
Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. He could see that Barclaycard carried 
out their checks using credit reference agency data which showed he could afford the 
increase in credit limit. He tried to establish what Mr Bs salary was at the time of the 
increase  as Mr Bs credit file in November 2015 showed he had two mortgages with 
monthly payments totalling £1568 per month - but this was inconclusive.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that Barclaycard couldnt have completed sufficient checks when they increased 
his limit to £13,000 in April 2016 as he couldnt afford to pay the credit card and found 
himself in financial difficulty when he took a pay cut during the pandemic. 
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
And so  I have looked at what Barclaycard did in April 2016 when they increased Mr Bs 
limit from £12,000 to £13,000. We asked them questions about this and they showed us their 
credit checks. They used a credit reference agency  which checked Mr Bs known data on 
his current account, other loans, and mortgages. This worked out his income and 
commitments. And Barclaycard could also see that he had managed his Barclaycard well in 
the months leading up to the increase. Their checks also showed he had another credit card 
with a balance of £5,086 and an overdraft balance of £763. One point of interest for me was 
that mortgage balances of £872,530 were shown  which seemed high to me  I will 
comment on that later. But Barclaycard could see that Mr B was managing his finances well 
 there werent any defaults or payment problems. I can see that Barclaycard concluded that 
the chance of Mr B defaulting, based on the checks they made - was very low. And the 
checks they made were proportionate and reasonable.
I looked at Mr Bs Barclaycard statements. They showed he conducted his account at the 
time well. In the six months before the increase, he made all monthly payments, and the 
amount borrowed was relatively low - around £5,000 against the limit of £12,000. 
Mr B showed us his credit file dated November 2015  dated just a few months prior to the 
limit increase. This also showed a similar picture  it confirmed he had another credit card 
facility and an overdraft, but payments were being made on time. It also showed the two 
mortgages referred to above  but again, payments were being made and were up to date. 
So  Barclaycard could see that Mr B was managing his commitments. I also saw that Mr 
Bs credit score was the best score achievable.
We can only assess what Barclaycard could see at the time of the increase  and this shows 
the checks that they did at that time were reasonable and proportionate. I also noted that 
Barclaycard wrote to Mr B in advance of the increase and showed us the letter he was sent - 
which said he could call or text to opt out of the increase  but he didnt.
I was sorry to learn that things got more difficult for Mr B later on. He had to take on a lower 
paid job due to the covid pandemic. And I can see from his statements that he began to 
struggle to pay his Barclaycard in the second half of 2020. His balance also increased up to 
and exceeding the limit. His account was judged to be in persistent debt for the three years 
up to October 2020, and his limit was cancelled. 
To explain what this means - the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) persistent debt rules 
are set out on the FCA handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say (in summary) that firms such as 
Barclaycard must look at the accounts of borrowers to ensure theyre reducing their debts 
and therefore, not paying too much interest. And so  where a borrower is paying more in 
interest and fees than they are paying towards reducing the amount of the debt, then a 
repayment plan should be put in place to deal with this. And, where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to stop customers from increasing their debts further. The 
intention of the rules is to ensure that customers are protected from paying too much interest 
 and in some cases, never actually repaying their debts. This typically happens if customers 
only pay the minimum amount each month, while still spending on their cards. 
Mr B has said that this must mean that Barclaycard lent to him irresponsibly. Ive considered 
this. But his account was in persistent debt for 36 months up to October 2020  that is, from 
October 2017  which was well after the limit was increased in April 2016. And as Ive said, 
we can only expect Barclaycard to make an assessment of a customers account on what 
they knew at the time. In Mr Bs case, it looks like his financial situation got worse later  
some time after his limit was increased.
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore be disappointed by 
my decision. But for the reasons Ive described, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman