DRN-3505245
The complaint
Mr C has complained with the amount Amtrust Europe Limited offered him for the market 
value of his caravan under his caravan insurance when his caravan was written off following 
an accident.
What happened
Following inspection Amtrust relying on the trade guides offered Mr C £12,450 as the market 
value of his caravan. Mr C didnt think this was enough, so he complained. He also thought 
Amtrust should pay him extra for the tyres, battery, and motor mover.
As Amtrust wouldnt change its stance he brought his complaint to us. The investigator was 
of the view that Amtrust hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree so his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
We arent caravan or vehicle valuers, our role is solely to see if Amtrust did anything wrong 
having regards to the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy wording says the following under Section 1  Policy Cover:
We will cover You against loss or damage to the Caravan and its Contents caused 
by an insured peril which happens within the Geographical Limits.
.
3. Accidental damage (to the Caravan only).
Caravan is defined as:
The structure of the touring caravan described in the Schedule together with an 
awning, fixed motor mover, fixtures and fitting included in the manufacturers original 
specification or supplied with the touring caravan fitted by the manufacturer at a later 
date. 
Under the heading Settling Claims it says the following:
1. The Caravan
We will either pay the cost of repairing the caravan or, if the Caravan is lost or 
damaged beyond economical repair, We may settled the claim as follows:

c. Market Value 
If neither a) or b) above apply, we may pay the retail value of the Caravan at the time 
of the loss or damage (as shown in the current edition of Glasss Guide to Caravan 
Values) less a deduction to reflect pre-accident condition.
Mr Cs policy covers me for the market value of his caravan at the date of loss. The fact that 
he said it was worth £14,000 makes no difference here because his caravan is only insured 
for the market value at the date of loss as specifically detailed on his Schedule. 
Under the General Exclusions it excludes the costs of replacing tyres unless damaged by 
the insured peril, plus more importantly in this complaint the cost of replacing any 
undamaged item or parts of items forming a set.
Although Mr C disagrees that it was fair for Amtrust to use the trade guide as to the value of 
his caravan, given the policy wording permits it, there is nothing to show me that Amtrust 
should not have used it. This service takes the view that using the trade guides to value 
caravans and motor vehicles is good practice, as it shows the actual selling prices rather 
than the advertised prices which can of course be negotiated at the time of sale. It is not an 
unusual or significant policy term and indeed most insurers, given our stance on the matter, 
will look to provide their valuations using these trade guides. Therefore, advertised prices 
like Mr C has produced, carry less weight as no negotiation has taken place. Consequently, I 
dont find them that persuasive in showing me Amtrusts valuation was wrong. 
As the investigator explained the fact that Mr Cs caravan was a 50th anniversary edition 
doesnt tend to affect a market value more so when it had no additional features 
consequently. 
Therefore, I consider it was good practice for both Amtrust to use the guide and indeed have 
the ability for it to use the guide in its policy wording. I dont consider anything turns on the 
word may as Mr C alleges. Quite simply the policy wording permits it to use the trade guide, 
we consider this good practice, so the conclusion is that Amtrust has done nothing wrong in 
using it. Amtrust can only be found to have done anything wrong if it didnt adhere to its own 
policy wordings and here that is not the case in my view.
Nonetheless Amtrust also approached three caravan dealerships for further valuations. I 
consider this was fair and reasonable in addition to relying on the trade guide. The 
valuations received were £12,440, £13,500 to £15,500 and £9,450 to 12,500. Since two of 
these supported the trade guides valuation this also shows me there was little wrong with 
Amtrusts market valuation of Mr Cs caravan.
Mr C did acknowledge that there was an advertised caravan of similar specifications to Mr 
Cs caravan for the market value amount as assessed by Amtrust. He said given it was 
located three hours away meant he couldnt view to make sure of its suitability. However 
whether or not Mr C was in position to view this caravan doesnt have any bearing, the fact 
that there was a caravan for sale at the market value of Mr Cs caravan merely also shows 
me Amtrusts valuation wasnt wrong or way out of line.
Turning to motor mover, there was no damage to it. The policy is clear that undamaged 
items will not be replaced, and it wasnt fitted by the manufacturer. So initially I dont 
consider Amtrust was wrong not to include it. And I consider it was very reasonable that it 
offered it back to Mr C. The policy doesnt provide cover for the cost of fitting it to a new 
caravan. However, Amtrust said as Mr C bought his caravan with the motor mover attached 
and given the Schedule includes it in the definition, it is something Mr C can claim for 
separately as it then fall under the definition of equipment. So, this is still open for Mr C to do 
if he wishes. It makes no difference sadly that Mr C had fitted new tyres and a new battery as this doesnt increase any valuation as its expected the caravan will have been properly 
maintained and these were maintenance issues. 
My final decision
So, whilst I understand and appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, for these 
reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman