DRN-3447492
The complaint
Ms M complains that 3J Finance Limited will not let her out of an arrangement to pay for an 
educational course for her children.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms M says she was sold a direct debit agreement for an online education 
course for her children by a course provider. 3J Finance says she took out a Fixed Sum 
Loan Agreement over five years with it to pay for this online educational course supplied by 
the course provider.
Ms M says she discovered this direct debit agreement was actually a loan agreement when 
she saw it on her credit file. She said she rang in and was told if she changed the amount 
she paid it would harm her credit file. She says she previously had an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) and wouldnt have entered the agreement if shed known it was a loan.
Ms M wants out of the agreement with nothing else to pay but 3J Finance say shes 
responsible for the total amount of credit (which was £3438 when the loan was set up). 3J 
Finance say its done nothing wrong. So Ms M brought her complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says that having learned about the educational course she expressed an interest in 
learning more about it, and a representative visited her home in July 2019. By the end of this 
meeting Ms M had purchased an educational course for her children. It appears the 
representative was acting for both the course provider and 3J Finance during the sales 
process. And a loan from 3J Finance was arranged by the representative to pay for it (in 
addition to the £50 deposit Ms M paid at the time. The loan was interest free and was to run 
over the following five years. 
Ms M has been very clear and consistent in her representations that during the meeting with 
the representative that she understood she was setting up a monthly direct debit 
arrangement. Repeatedly Ms M has said that she didnt understand that she was entering a 
loan agreement. Ms M does agree she entered an arrangement but believed it was monthly 
direct debit type arrangement. She said she only discovered it was a loan when reviewing 
her credit file. She says she monitored her credit file from time to time because shed had 
significant problems with her credit in the past and had been in an IVA.
3J Finance didnt sell Ms M the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Ms M 
due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan 
Ms M entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act 
which provide her with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the 
agent of 3J Finance during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms M entering into 
the loan agreement, beginning with the first contact she had with the course provider. In 
essence this means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or 
said during the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Ms M to hold 3J Finance 
liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made during the 
sales process.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed by Ms M 
on the day in question. 3J Finances position essentially is that the documentary evidence 
from the point of sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Ms M agreed 
to everything in those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete or fair 
appreciation of what happened here. What was said by the representative is also important 
as the discussion will have started before the paperwork was signed. And Ms M would have 
considered what the representative said in her decision making during the sale.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Ms M placed on what the 
representative told her. And I can see she says shed never have entered a loan agreement 
if shed known bearing in mind her having had an IVA in the past and being a single parent 
with four children.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider involved here and it using credit providers such as 3J Finance. These 
include the common theme of people understanding that they could cancel at any time or 
outside the stated terms. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants other 
than they were sold courses such as this by this particular course provider and often took 
finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading 
or untrue information. But it does show that there was a significant risk that such 
representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that 
unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the situation differently to 
that articulated in the documentation. In this case I can see that the documents which 3J 
Finance have pointed to were all signed by Ms M within a three-minute timespan. These 
documents had a number of pages and a large amount of information to be considered 
within them. It maybe that they were all considered individually at length beforehand and 
then signed as a batch at the end of the meeting. But what couldnt have happened in three 
minutes was that they were properly considered individually. And Ms M makes clear she 
wasnt provided with clear information about what this agreement was. So at least to some 
degree these time stamps do seem to support Ms Ms comments about not being able to 
properly consider the matter.This service has also received information that the course provider sometimes operated 
informally a longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can 
see the existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a 
potential source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a 
conclusion that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Ms M has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Ms M was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 3J Finance. I 
think it likely she was told that this was a pay as you go type arrangement. And it was on 
this basis she entered into the agreement. And similarly I think it is on this basis things 
should be put right. And as Ive described due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, Ms M can hold 3J Finance liable for the incorrect information 
provided by the representative in this case. So 3J Finance needs to do something to put 
things right.
3J Finance is also obliged to ensure it takes proportionate checks when lending to 
consumers to ensure she could repay the loan it provided in a sustainable way. 3J Finance 
has pointed to an affordability statement Ms M signed. Which simply says she can pay from 
her salary. But Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that 3J Finance did proportionate 
checks on Ms M. Ms M has made clear she wouldnt have taken a loan knowingly due to her 
IVA and bad credit history. Having reviewed her credit file I can see a number of missed 
payments and other significant issues with her credit. All of these being indicators to a 
conscientious lender that there should be at the very least, further consideration of whether 
the lending should go ahead. And bearing in time the date stamps of the documents Ms M 
signed it would seem unlikely that the sales representative here would have had real time 
support from 3J Finance as to Ms Ms credit worthiness. Ms M has said due to her IVA and 
being a single parent with four children she would not have taken the loan knowingly. And 3J 
Finance hasnt pointed to proportionate checks that it did with regard to her credit worthiness 
other than the statement of affordability. And as the statement of affordability was apparently 
completed in the same three-minute timespan as the other documentation and it contains 
very little detail about Ms Ms reasons for considering the loan affordable in her particular 
circumstances. And having considered her credit file and what Ms M has said I think if 3J 
Finance had done proportionate checks like it ought at the point of sale it would have 
decided not to lend to Ms M.
I also note that when these issues around affordability and what Ms M was told were put to 
3J Finance in the Investigators assessment of the matter, 3J Finance chose not to respond 
to these issues with any meaningful comment. It didnt provide any clarity on what it does to 
check affordability in situations such as Ms M. So Im satisfied it has had proper opportunity 
to consider these important issues but chose not to comment on them. And I note that 3J 
Finance hasnt persuasively engaged here on why these complaints about such sales keep 
arising and coming to our service. All in all Im persuaded by what Ms M says did happen 
here rather than what 3J Finance said would or should have happened in her case. So its 
my decision that Ms Ms complaint is successful.
Putting things right
I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cancel the loan agreement with no further repayments to be made.
Refund all the payments Ms M made towards the loan
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunds due, calculated from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.Remove any record of this credit agreement from Ms Ms credit file.
Arrange with Ms M for the return of any course materials, DVDs, and anything else 
she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under 
the contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Ms M asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman