DRN-1315826
 The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service shes received from Santander UK Plc around switching 
her graduate account to a standard current account. 
What happened
Miss W has been a customer of Santander for a number of years. She had a student 
account between 8 March 2013 and 28 September 2017, when that account was migrated to 
a graduate account. 
Aware that graduate accounts arent indefinite, and conscious that she may have to move to 
a more regular current account in the near future, Miss W contacted Santander in the 
summer of 2019. She says after making several calls, she was told that these changes 
typically took place in annual waves and as her graduate account remained in place over the 
summer, it wouldnt now change until July 2020. Miss W requested confirmation of this in 
writing which Santander provided.
In October 2019, Miss W received a second letter from Santander giving her notice that her 
graduate account would move over to a standard current account on 17 December 2019.
Miss W wasnt happy with that as it was different to what shed been told a couple of months 
before. She says shed planned her finances around having her graduate account  with the 
benefit of a free arranged £2,000 overdraft facility  until the summer of 2020.
Santander accepts that she was given different information. Its apologised and given her 
£50 to acknowledge this. However, its maintained its position to move her to a standard 
current account in December 2019.
Unhappy, Miss W complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws 
complaint; he didnt think Santander had to do anything more. Miss W asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman so it's been passed to me look at everything 
afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
Santander accepts its given conflicting information to Miss W about when her graduate 
account would move to a standard current account. Ive considered the impact this has had 
on Miss W. Relying on the information given to her in August 2019, she says shed planned 
her finances around still having the graduate account.
However, I also note Miss W has had the benefit of the graduate account for longer than 
Santanders terms and conditions allow. The Screenshots given to us by Santander show 
that her student account was migrated to the graduate account in September 2017 and graduate accounts opened at that time shouldve ended after two years. So that means Miss 
Ws graduate account shouldve ended in September 2019.
It also looks like her student account shouldve migrated to the graduate account earlier than 
it did, in or around July 2016 - as thats when shed graduated from university - rather than 
September 2017. If it had done so, Miss Ws graduate account shouldve migrated to a 
standard current account in July 2019 - as under Santanders terms and conditions from that 
time,  the graduate account shouldve ended after three years. 
So it looks like Santander has made a number of mistakes when migrating Miss W to 
different accounts over the years; some of which shes benefited from.
Thats not to say that I dont appreciate the disappointment she wouldve felt about being told 
her account was moving to a standard current account with effect of December 2019, which 
was different to what shed been told previously. Further, it was she who had been 
proactively chasing Santander for information about when her graduate account was due to 
end. But Santander did still give her two months notice of the change to help her re-plan her 
finances, apologised for giving conflicting information and paid her £50 compensation. 
Considering Miss W had the benefit of the graduate account for longer than the period set 
out in the terms and conditions, I think thats reasonable in the circumstances, and fairly 
reflects the level of trouble and upset Miss W experienced. Im satisfied Santander doesnt 
have to do anything more.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman