DRN-3517282
The complaint
Mr W complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, (Transact) 
caused him loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
Mr Ws complaint was brought by his representative and Ive referred to Mr W when referring 
to things said or done by him or on his behalf by his representative.
What happened
Mr W held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call Z. Transact was 
registered as the legal owner of the shares which were held within his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).
Z was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands.
In August 2012 the operator of Z sent Transact a notice of a pending corporate action, 
saying it intended to restructure Z by merging it into a new company. According to the 
notice, the final merger plan and documentation for this corporate action were expected 
in one to four weeks with it completing within a further four weeks. The notice said the 
redemption period for shares in Z was being immediately extended to almost a year.
Towards the start of October 2012, the operator of Z wrote again to Transact with plans 
of the merger, notice of a special meeting of shareholders to approve it and an investor 
letter. As a result of the merger, Mr Ws shares in Z would be exchanged for bonds 
issued by the new company. The notice said the bonds would have a five-year term.
Transact says it passed on to Mr Ws adviser the first but not the second notice. The 
restructure completed in November and Mr Ws adviser was notified.
At the end of the five-year term, Mr Ws bonds were not redeemed and they remain 
unredeemed with a value adjusted to near zero on the Transact statements.
In support of his complaint, Mr W has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary:
Transact had failed in its duties as a platform provider and as an operator of a SIPP.
The August and October notices were news of a potential fundamental change to his 
investment and Transact shouldve passed them on to him.
Although his shares didnt give him a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law gave 
him a right to object to it and to receive instead a fair value for his shares. If Transact had 
done more earlier to inform him about the restructure and advise him of his options, he 
wouldve been able to exercise and enforce this right and avoid the loss that arose - and 
if not in the Marshall Islands, Mr W could have initiated litigation in the English courts.
The restructure left him with a riskier asset and he believes Transact ought to have 
assessed its appropriateness for him.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transacts terms didnt promise it would pass on details of corporate actions, and said it 
was for consumers and their advisers to monitor these. But Transact did need to pay due 
regard to Mr Ws interests and treat him fairly  which would include passing on to him 
key information about his investment. Transact accepts it didnt pass on the October 
notice. The evidence provided didnt show Transact had passed on the August notice.
Transact had acknowledged it should have passed on the October communication. The 
investigator concluded Transact ought reasonably to have sent it on. But the investigator 
wasnt persuaded Mr W would likely be in a different position if Transact had passed the 
notices on. So, its failure to do so likely hadnt made a difference to his current position. 
The notices didnt provide options for shareholders like him, so he wasnt deprived of 
options by virtue of not receiving the notices  in fact the August notice set out that share 
redemptions had been extended by a year. On balance it appears unlikely Mr W couldve 
sold his shares in response to the notices and avoided becoming a bond holder.
The corporate action didnt invite a response from holders of the shares Mr W held and 
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate and explore what else might be done, such as 
any options the governing law of the fund might provide in relation to the proposals. To 
have done so would have gone beyond the scope of what was expected of a nominee. 
What Transact shouldve done was limited to passing on the information.
There wasnt persuasive evidence to show that more likely than not Mr W wouldve 
succeeded in exiting the investment if Transact had passed on the notices. It wasnt 
clear Marshall Islands law wouldve given the opportunity to exit the investment like he 
has said it did  but even if it did, and allowing that Mr W wouldve tried anything at that 
time to extricate himself from the investment, Transact didnt have a duty to tell Mr W 
about that route. So even where Mr W wouldve taken this option (with knowledge of it), it 
wasnt Transacts duty to advise him of it.
The bonds resulting from the restructure werent a new holding Transact was accepting 
into a SIPP on its platform, but a change to an existing holding already held there. So 
Transact didnt have to assess the bonds for appropriateness - and considerations 
specific to accepting investments into a SIPP didnt apply.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators assessment and made a number of further points. 
Ive considered all he has sent us but, in brief summary, these included:
He moved SIPP funds into cash in 2012 to protect it from the market. The funds were 
then reinvested against his instructions and into funds he knew nothing about. The result 
was a very large proportion of his SIPP being held in Z or in investments run by parties 
running Z and far from the low risk conservative portfolio originally constructed for him as 
a conservative unsophisticated investor. Transact and his IFA had no authority to act 
without his instruction. He lost trust in Transact and his IFA.
More investment into suspicious property-related funds and bonds increased his 
concern. If he had known more earlier, it would have triggered his concerns earlier  with 
a chance hed have been able to redeem funds or prevent them being converted into 
long dated bonds completely unsuitable for his forthcoming pension needs.
Transacts 2012 SIPP Annual Review gave him confidence his pension would be as expected on his planned retirement date in a few years. Had he known of the high-risk 
conversions that were planned, he wouldve challenged Transact to explain these 
investments were suitable for his conservative SIPP portfolio. Transact didnt send a 
SPP review the following year. Did it consider the investments unsuitable given his 
impending retirement date?
If he couldve extracted himself from this disastrous situation he wouldve and to suggest 
otherwise is derisory. He ordered the sale of holdings in November 2012, but this was 
not achieved. He complained in 2013. Theres no shortage of evidence, and he could 
give us more, of the strength of his efforts to extract his pension from this highly 
suspicious debacle. We have totally undervalued this and then dismissed and excused 
Transacts mistakes as having no material impact. 
The nightmare was allowed to progress on Transacts watch. Changes made later to its 
procedures suggest it got things wrong at the time.
Insufficient consideration has been given by us to the interests of investors and the wider 
picture of manipulation by self-interested parties and the direct linkages between the 
entities involved, including Z and its operators, and certain individuals. There were clear 
conflicts of interest. There was no advice or information from the IFA, since, with 
hindsight, they had planned to manipulate his investments. 
Past decisions of this service and the outcome of legal actions support his case.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
Im considering here whether Transacts responsibilities in relation to particular events in 
2012 make it fair and reasonable for Transact to bear responsibility for damage Mr W has 
suffered from investment in Z. The matters that fall within the scope of this complaint are 
solely related to the 2012 restructure. My conclusions do not speak to the issue of whether 
Mr W has been wronged more generally or to whether his characterisation of the wider 
picture or of the entities involved is accurate. Also Im not considering what Transact should 
or shouldnt have done, or known, at that earlier time when the investments in Z were made 
or the adequacy of its due diligence in accepting Z onto its platform in the first place.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mr W relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. Mr Ws 
complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment into a SIPP on its platform but 
about the restructuring of an investment already held there.
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mr Ws interests, treat him fairly, pay due 
regard to his information needs and give information to him in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The August 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next 1-4 weeks and that the restructure should be complete within four weeks after that. 
From what Ive seen of the email addresses used by Transact in this case, it tried but did not 
succeed in passing that notice on correctly to Mr Ws adviser. Also Transact accepts that it 
didnt send on the notice it received in October 2012. That notice  a Notice of special 
meeting of shareholders, which was to take place later in October - contained important 
information about Mr Ws investment with details of the plan of the merger and the bond for 
share swap. I think Transact should reasonably have sent this on to Mr Ws adviser firm. 
That said, neither notice offered Mr W a vote on whether the restructure went through or 
outlined a way for him to exclude himself from it and so avoid having his shares exchanged 
for the bonds. I note investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of 
the action by requesting redemptions, given that the restructure completed well within the 
extended redemption period announced in the August notice. The timescales mentioned in 
the August notice anticipated that this would be so. 
I accept the points Mr W makes about the efforts he made to extract himself from the 
investments, and how earlier notice might have prompted him to try this earlier. But insofar 
as there existed before the August notice the chance of redeeming shares before the 
conversion and so avoiding it and all that followed it, by the time of the August 2012 notice, 
with the extension of the waiting period for redeeming shares, that chance existed no longer.
Mr W has referred to other courses of action that might have been open to him, including 
legal action to enforce rights arising in Marshall Islands law. Transact had no obligation to 
provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. With this in mind, and in light of 
its obligations, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact to have 
investigated, considered or advised Mr W about wider rights of that kind - either when the 
August notice came or when the October proposals followed. 
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mr Ws investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of the shares, it was safeguarding Mr Ws investment by acting as custodian. So Transact 
had to keep Mr Ws investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
him on how to get out of the investment if he wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action. I say this accepting that the 
proposals concerned would be a substantial change to Mr Ws investment.
Rights or legal options in relation to the restructure that Mr W might have had by virtue of his 
status as a shareholder and not arising from the restructure proposals themselves - for 
example as a result of the company law governing the fund in the territory in which it was 
legally based - were rights or options that it was for him or his adviser to keep abreast of. 
Likewise it was for Mr W, and his adviser, to consider the implications of the restructure in 
the light of all or any of that, and to decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So I have considered what Mr W and his adviser might have done differently with knowledge 
of the information in the notices that Transact didnt pass on. Having done so, I dont think 
Transacts failings at that time in relation to this were the cause of losses Mr W suffered on 
his investment  because if he had received that information Im not persuaded that more 
likely than not he wouldve been able to do things differently and obtain a better outcome. In particular, Im not persuaded the likely result of Mr W receiving that information wouldve 
been him successfully redeeming his investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall 
Islands law or elsewhere, securing in the UK courts an award by virtue of which he was 
likely to successfully recover a payment to reduce his losses. I say this having considered 
carefully what he has sent us about certain other legal actions and complaints.
I say this also bearing in mind what Ive said above about how Transact didnt need to 
investigate for Mr W or outline for him any such wider legal rights. I bear in mind Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mr W or his adviser at the time, upon becoming aware of the merger, 
raised any points about Mr W having lost rights by virtue of not having been able to dissent 
in the way Mr W has since described. What I have doesnt suggest Mr W was aware of such 
rights, insofar as they might have existed, until later. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded Mr W exercising such rights successfully to recover funds 
from this investment was the most likely result had Transact passed on the information that it 
shouldve. I say this without doubting the strength of Mr Ws efforts to recover the situation 
and what he has said about this.
Id add that I dont think Transact was at fault for not assessing the appropriateness of the 
bonds Mr W received, or was to receive, in the way Mr W has argued. The bonds were not a 
new investment Transact was accepting into the SIPP but the result of an alteration to an 
existing investment already held there.
Overall I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mr W wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of his investment and the 
losses he says arose as a result of that conversion  and I dont think what Transact failed to 
do and ought to have done in connection with the October notice caused Mr Ws loss.
So although, given what happened here and the losses he suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mr Ws situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in connection 
with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman