DRN-4182775
The complaint
Mr B has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt pay the 
ongoing advice charge (OAC) from his pension plan to his financial adviser when it should, 
and then deducted this from his plan in one lump sum in January 2023. This amounted to 
£6,304 and, as a result, Mr Bs plan value dropped considerably. Mr B considers that 
Prudential should cover these fees due to its mistake. 
What happened
Mr Bs financial adviser contacted Prudential in November 2022 to say that they hadnt 
received their OAC since January 2020, and following its investigation into the matter, 
Prudential established that, when Mr B had moved to that new financial adviser, the OAC 
had incorrectly been removed from the plan.
Mr B then completed an Adviser Charge Instruction Form in November 2022 which 
authorised Prudential to reinstate the 0.75% OAC from his pension funds, which were held in 
two separate accounts.
Prudential then backdated the missed OAC to January 2020 for one of the accounts, and to 
February 2020 for the other, which amounted to a total of £6,304. This was deducted from 
Mr Bs pension funds in January 2023.
Mr B complained in the same month, but Prudential replied to say that the backdated fees 
were due to his financial adviser and that, as his plan would have reduced by the amount 
deducted in any case, he hadnt been financially disadvantaged.
It then reviewed the matter, and although it maintained its overall position on the lump sum 
deduction to cover the OAC, it offered Mr B £50 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
that the matter would have caused him.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the following 
in summary:
Whilst he acknowledged that the lump sum deduction would have been a shock to Mr 
B, this payment would always have been taken, albeit more gradually over the last 
couple of years. And so Mr Bs plan value is unlikely to have been financially 
disadvantaged by the amount being taken in one deduction.
He didnt think Mr Bs request that Prudential cover these fees was fair as Mr B had 
agreed to pay the OAC from the outset. It wouldnt be fair to require Prudential to 
pay them instead.
Prudential had acknowledged the error it had made, and the investigator thought that 
the £50 offer of compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B disagreed, however, saying that Prudential had made the error in not paying the fees 
for years, and although it initially didnt uphold his complaint, it then changed its stance and 
offered him £50 for the error.
Mr B considered this to be unsatisfactory, given the lump sum deduction from his pension 
pot. As such he requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 31 May 2023. The following is an extract 
from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons, albeit with caveats which I set out below.
I dont think its disputed that Mr B agreed to pay the OAC to his financial adviser, and as 
such I think its fair to say that the charges would always have been taken from his pension 
funds. I understand why Mr B would have been shocked at the reduction in his pension fund 
value when the deduction was taken as a lump sum, but as both the investigator and 
Prudential have said, this money would always have been taken, but at different points and 
in smaller sums.
That the OAC deduction has been taken in one lump sum from Mr Bs pension value in 
January 2023 rather than being backdated to when the OAC would have been taken in 
smaller sums since 2020 may well have worked in Mr Bs favour. 
But I do nevertheless think that Mr B should be offered the option of having his policy 
reconstructed as if the OAC deductions had been made when they should have been, rather 
than the amount being taken as one lump sum. This will then place Mr B precisely in the 
position he would otherwise be, but for Prudentials error.
And so, in response to this provisional decision, Id be grateful if Mr B would indicate as to 
whether he would like Prudential to do this.
Ive then thought further about the £50 payment Prudential made to Mr B in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience the matter will have caused. I think its fair to say that Prudential 
acknowledged the error and took steps to correct in it a timely fashion (albeit in a manner 
with which Mr B disagrees), but the lump sum deduction for fees was sizeable and the 
immediate reduction in the value of his pension fund has clearly caused Mr B considerable 
concern. And I can understand why. 
So, along with the prospect of reconstructing Mr Bs pension fund as set out above, I think 
an overall payment of £100 (including the £50 offered by Prudential if its already been paid) 
is probably more appropriate here.
In response, Mr B said he still wasnt happy with the proposed £100 award. He said that the 
two big issues for him were that Prudential initially denied that it had made any mistakes, but 
then changed its mind and said that it was human error on its part  which was totally 
unacceptable.
Mr B further said that the significant amount which was withdrawn from his pension also 
wasnt acceptable. 
He added that he hadnt accepted the £50 settlement offer made by Prudential  rather it 
had just sent it straight to his bank account after making the offer.Mr B said that it was a poor state of affairs from a big company such as Prudential.
Prudential also responded to say that the OAC was backdated on a monthly basis rather 
than just being taken as a lump sum. It could see how its previous wording might make it 
appear as if the amount had simply been taken as a lump sum in January 2023, but it 
confirmed that it had been appropriately backdated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the responses from both parties and would comment as follows.
Id firstly acknowledge Mr Bs disappointment with the proposed outcome. I understand his 
frustration at whats happened, and that he continues to feel aggrieved at what he considers 
to be both Prudentials change of position on whether it had done anything wrong, and the 
amount which was taken from his plan as an unexpected lump sum.
But I dont think its the case that Prudential denied that an error had occurred when it 
stopped the OAC in the first place. Its change of position related to whether it was upholding 
Mr Bs complaint and an amount it was willing to pay in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused to Mr B.
I think it would have been helpful for Prudential to have specifically apologised for the error 
and the upset this had caused Mr B in its initial letter - and then to make an appropriate offer 
of compensation - rather than simply saying it was sorry that Mr B had had cause for 
complaint and following this by confirming that it nevertheless wasnt able to support Mr Bs 
complaint. Clearly an error had been made, and this was Prudentials.
But I do also have to take into account that it did then review its position and issued what I 
consider to be a more appropriately concessionary letter, in which it acknowledged that the 
error had been made, that it was upholding Mr Bs complaint in that regard, and that it would 
be paying him £50 in respect of this. It also said that it aimed to provide an excellent level of 
customer service and that it hoped that, if Mr B needed to contact it again, he would see an 
improvement in its service.
So I think that, whilst Prudential made the initial mistake relating to the OAC and then could 
have tried to resolve the matter in an initially more apologetic and appropriate manner, it did 
then do so once it had reviewed the complaint. 
Given the error with OAC and Prudentials initial handling of the matter, I therefore thought 
that the amount which it should pay to Mr B should increase. This was also intended to take 
into account the concern which Mr B would quite understandably have experienced at the 
significant lump sum withdrawal.
But I did also need to take into account the steps which Prudential had taken to resolve the 
error itself. And whilst this amounted to a concerning lump sum withdrawal for Mr B, it did 
nevertheless aim to put Mr B, and his pension plan, into the position he would otherwise 
have been had the error not been made and the OAC payments had been paid as intended. 
And to reiterate my comments from the provision decision, the deduction of the OAC was 
always something which should have taken place  and so there ought to have been an 
overall neutral position for Mr B and his pension funds. And so my conclusions on the amount which Prudential should pay to Mr B remain 
unchanged. Taking account of the circumstances here and the types of award we might 
make in other similar circumstances, I think the amount is appropriate.
But my remaining concern, as set out in the provisional decision, was that the lump sum 
withdrawal may not reflect the position of Mr Bs pension plan had the OAC payments been 
made when they should have been. And thats why I proposed that Prudential reconstruct Mr 
Bs plan on that basis.
But in response to the provisional decision, Prudential has confirmed that the payments have 
been properly backdated, and, as I understand it, this means that my intention as set out in 
that decision has already been fulfilled.
Putting things right
Overall, my conclusions remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision. The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay to Mr B a total of £100 (including the £50 
already paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman