DRN-4430890
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that, following an insurance claim, UK Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill Insurance (UKI) paid the settlement to the incorrect company.
Mr F is being represented in this matter by his partner Miss A. However, for ease of 
reference, Ill refer to any actions or comments by either Mr F or Miss A as being done or 
made by Mr F.
What happened
In March 2023, Mr Fs car was stolen. The car was financed by Miss A with Company A and, 
on 14 March 2023, UKI agreed to settle the claim. Miss A obtained a settlement quote for the 
finance from Company A. This confirmed the settlement figure needed to be paid to 
Company A, and details for paying by either BACS or CHAPS, were provided. Mr F sent this 
settlement quote to UKI.
On 4 April 2023, UKI settled the claim by sending a cheque to Company B. While Company 
A and Company B have the same word within their name, and belong to the same group, 
they are separate legal entities. Mr F complained to UKI that the finance hadnt been settled, 
and UKI confirmed that Company B had acknowledged receipt of the payment. And, on 28 
June 2023, they told Mr F we know that the moneys left our account but until we know 
exactly which account the moneys cleared we will be unable to assist your finance company 
in tracing these funds. They also confirmed Company B had received the cheque.
UKI acknowledged some elements of their service could be better, and they paid Mr F £249 
compensation. Mr F wasnt happy with this, as Miss A was still paying the finance, despite 
no longer having the car. So, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Company A and Company B were separate legal entities. And UKI 
had made an error in not following the settlement instructions provided, and instead paying 
the settlement (as part of a bulk payment) to Company B instead. So, she thought they 
needed to do something to put things right. She said that UKI should pay the settlement 
figure to Company A and pay Mr F an additional £100 compensation for what had happened. 
She also said that UKI should then contact Company B to recover the money they paid in 
error, but this shouldnt affect Mr Fs claim.
UKI didnt agree with the investigator, and they said that Company A and Company B are 
basically to be treated as the same [company] as they are part of the same group. However, 
while they didnt accept theyd done anything wrong, UKI confirmed theyd now reissued the 
payment to Company A, and would pursue Company B for the return of the payment theyd 
previously sent.
Mr F also didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hes had to take out a £5,000 loan 
to be able to continue to pay the finance company, as well as needing to buy a new car. He 
also didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient for the financial difficulties and 
stress [UKI] have put both myself and my family through. However, when asked to provide 
some evidence of this additional loan, Mr F didnt do so.
Because neither party agreed with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the issues raised, it would be useful if I explained the scope of my powers. 
Ive seen UKIs policy renewal documentation dated 24 October 2022, and its clear the 
policy is in the sole name of Mr F. Because of this, only Mr F is UKIs customer. So, when 
looking at what, if anything, UKI need to do to put things right, I can only consider the impact 
this has had on Mr F.
For clarity, as the finance agreement was in the sole name of Miss A, I wont be able to 
consider the fact that shes had to continue making the finance payments while this matter 
has been ongoing. However, as making these payments would reduce the amount 
outstanding, Id expect there to be a difference between the settlement amount paid by UKI 
and the reduced amount outstanding on the finance agreement because of the additional 
payments made. So, Id expect this difference to be refunded to Miss A by the finance 
company.
Mr F has also said hes had to take out a loan for £5,000 to cover the finance payments. For 
the reasons already given, I wont be considering the finance payments. Whats more, Mr F 
hasnt provided any evidence of this loan, so it wont form part of my consideration.
Finally, Mr F has said hes had to buy a replacement car. But this is as a result of the car 
insured by UKI being written off and isnt as a result of where the funds were paid. As 
replacing the car was always something Mr F would need to do following an insurance write-
off, it also isnt something that Ill be considering.
Ive seen the payment instructions provided on the settlement quote by Company A. And Ive 
also seen the details of the payment made by UKI to Company B. And these details dont 
match. As such, regardless of whether Company A and Company B should be treated as the 
same, Im satisfied that UKI didnt follow the payment instructions provided to them. And in 
not doing so, this resulted in the funds not reaching where they should. As such, Im satisfied 
that UKI should do something to put things right.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended UKI should make a payment to Company A, to settle Mr Fs 
insurance claim, and then take separate steps to recover the money they incorrectly sent 
Company B. Given the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. And, while UKI say they 
have now done this, I havent seen any evidence this has actually been the case.
The investigator also recommended that UKI pay Mr F an additional £100 compensation. 
While I appreciate that theyve already paid him £249, their final complaint response letter 
has confirmed this was for failings when dealing with his complaint. And this wasnt meant to 
address the impact of the settlement funds being paid to the wrong company, as UKI didnt 
believe theyd done this.
However, for the reasons already given, Im satisfied that UKI did make an error when 
making the payment. And its clear that this has had an impact on Mr F, causing him 
additional stress and inconvenience while this matter dragged on. As such, the £100 recommended by the investigator is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, UKI should:
send the £12,365 to settle Mr Fs insurance claim to Company A, using the details 
provided to them on the settlement quotation; and
pay Mr F an additional £100 to recognise the additional stress and inconvenience 
their error caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint about UKI UK Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill Insurance. And they should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman