The complaint
Mr H isnt happy with the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has paid him for a 
claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his home insurance policy after water leaked from the property above 
his. Part of his claim was for high-end jewellery parts which had been stored in a tray and 
which he said had been damaged by the leak. These parts were used to restore high-value 
jewellery pieces. 
RSA appointed a claims investigator to look into Mr Hs claim. The claims investigator visited 
Mr Hs home to validate the claim. She considered the tray of jewellery parts. She couldnt 
physically count and assess the number of parts in the tray, but her report says there were 
over 1000.
RSA initially cancelled Mr Hs policy as he was significantly under-insured. Mr H had taken 
out £75,000 worth of contents cover, but his contents were worth significantly more. RSA 
reviewed the case again and decided to reinstate Mr Hs policy. It agreed to reconsider Mr 
Hs claim.
Ultimately, RSA agreed to settle Mr Hs claim. It appointed its jewellery supplier to validate 
the claim. RSA paid him an average of £30 per part based on there being 1000 jewellery 
parts in the tray. Thats because it couldnt individually count and check each part to see 
which parts had been damaged and what the value of each part was.
Mr H wasnt happy with the settlement. He provided a letter from an antiques specialist 
which said hed counted the parts in the tray and there were 1276 parts. So he felt it should 
increase its offer to reflect the extra parts. 
RSA wasnt prepared to increase the settlement It said given the level of cover Mr H had 
bought and the level of underinsurance, it felt its payment was fair. It also said it hadnt been 
able to investigate whether each part was damaged or not, so itd simply taken an average 
and agreed to pay for 1000 parts. 
Mr H remained unhappy with RSAs position and he asked us to investigate his complaint. 
He was also unhappy that hed been led to think he had legal expenses cover, as hed 
planned to take legal action against the property company responsible for the property 
above his. But he learned that he didnt have legal expenses cover at the time of claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She explained that Mr H 
didnt have legal expenses cover at the time of the claim. So while hed had some 
DRN-1697829conversations with the legal team and had been disappointed to find he wasnt covered, he 
hadnt lost out as a result. 
The investigator thought the settlement for the jewellery parts was fair. She noted Mr H 
hadnt given RSA an itemised list of all the parts he was claiming for. So she felt RSAs 
settlement based on the assumption that 1000 parts were damaged was reasonable. And 
she noted that Mr H had accepted it. She didnt think RSA needed to revise the payment 
based on the antique specialists letter.
Mr H disagreed. He said hed always said there were more than 1000 parts and that hed 
only agreed to the number of parts being rounded down to 1000 because he thought the 
claim might exceed the policy limit. He said he told RSA that if each part was valued at a low 
amount, then hed be looking to claim for more than 1000 parts. He said when the claims 
investigator visited, she saw the parts piled up in more than 10 piles of 100, with many left 
over. He also told us that hed spoken to RSA and told it that he was going to get a specialist 
to look at the parts. And hed only accepted RSAs offer on the understanding that if there 
were more than 1000 parts, it would increase its offer.
The complaints been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think RSA has treated 
Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
First, I should explain that I havent considered Mr Hs complaint point about the fact he 
doesnt have legal expenses cover. Thats because I cant see that Mr H has made a formal 
complaint about this issue to RSA and it wasnt covered in RSAs final response to Mr Hs 
complaint. So it isnt clear that RSA has had a chance to look into this issue. Mr H will need 
to make a separate complaint to RSA and provide it with a chance to investigate this issue 
before we can potentially help. This decision only considers Mr Hs complaint about the 
settlement RSA has offered him.
I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about his complaint and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
very carefully considered everything hes said and told us. But in making my decision, I have 
to decide whether I think RSA worked out the settlement due to Mr H fairly. So I need to look 
at what factors RSA took into account in doing so and whether I think it acted reasonably.
RSA sent us a copy of the claims investigators report. I can see from that report that Mr H 
mentioned he thought he had over 1000 parts in the tray. So I do accept hes said this from 
the start. I cant see any mention though of the parts being piled up, or of a total amount of 
piles. The report also says Mr H didnt give a specific value for each part  but he thought 
the value of them might be around £250,000. 
Mr H didnt provide RSA with a catalogued list of each part and what each was worth. So he 
couldnt tell RSA with any degree of accuracy how many parts were in the tray. And he gave 
a rough estimate of the range of likely part values, but he didnt itemise the cost of each one. 
Neither RSA nor Mr H undertook a detailed inspection of each individual part. So it isnt clear 
how many of the parts were damaged or whether any were undamaged and didnt need to 
be included in the settlement. Given the number and size of the parts, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA not to arrange a detailed assessment of each and every part in the 
tray.
What RSA did do though was arrange for a watch specialist from its jewellery supplier to look at the parts and validate the claim. Id generally think its for a policyholder to show 
proof of ownership for the things theyve claimed for. But in this particular case, I think this 
was a reasonable response from RSA and a fair way to move the claim along. 
Based on the jewellery specialists assessment, RSA decided the fairest way forward would 
be to treat the tray as holding 1000 parts. And applying an average of £30 per part. This 
seems a fair and reasonable approach to calculating settlement. I say this because Mr H 
indicated a value range of £15-500 per part. The jewellery specialist separated the highest 
value parts from the rest of the tray and offered a settlement of £300 per part for five of these 
type of parts. So it seems he took higher value items into account when considering 
settlement. And I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the opinion of its jewellery expert 
when working out what Mr H was due.
Mr H accepted RSAs offer of settlement before he got his own expert to count the items in 
his collection. He said that he told RSA though that he only accepted its offer on the 
understanding it would increase the settlement due if his specialist found more than 1000 
parts. Ive seen the specialists letter and I can see that he did count more than 1000 parts. 
But I dont think this is enough to show me that RSA should pay more for this claim. Thats 
because while the specialist stated the total number of parts, he didnt include details of how 
many of those parts were damaged or what the value of each part should be. 
So its possible that some of the parts werent damaged by the water leak; that some may 
have been worth less than £30 each and that there may have been more parts in the tray 
given the length of time thatd passed since Mr H first made the claim. In these 
circumstances, I think it was fair for RSA to stick with its original offer  especially given itd 
simply agreed to treat 1000 parts as damaged beyond repair, without assessing whether 
they were or werent.
Ive also borne in mind that the policy says that where a policyholder doesnt tell RSA about 
an increase in the value of their contents, it may reduce the value of a claim payment. In this 
case, it doesnt seem as if RSA has reduced the payment due even though it seems Mr H 
was substantially under-insured after his collection grew. It simply accepted the 
recommendation of its own expert. I think this was fair in the circumstances. 
Overall, I think RSA has calculated its offer of settlement fairly and reasonably. So Im not 
telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman