DRN-3563788
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard rejected his claim under 
section 75.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr C purchased a boiler from a retailer and paid using his Barclaycard. A 
third party installed the boiler. Following installation, a fault occurred. Mr C was advised by 
the manufacturer that the boiler needed to be installed differently and that Mr C would be 
responsible for the costs because the work required involved raising the floor and going into 
the walls.
Mr C raised a section 75 claim with Barclays. He said hed been misled by the supplier 
because the boiler wasnt compatible with his property.
Barclays rejected the claim. It said the fault was caused by the installation and that the 
supplier couldnt be held responsible for this.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that I hadnt seen any evidence that the 
boiler wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. So I didnt think there had been a 
breach of contract. I considered whether the supplier had misrepresented the boiler to Mr C 
but said that there wasnt enough evidence for me to reach this conclusion, because there 
was nothing to suggest that the supplier had advised Mr C that the boiler was compatible 
with his current installation. 
I looked at the instructions which came with the boiler and said that I wasnt persuaded that 
they were incorrect, but even if they were, this wasnt something I could hold the supplier 
responsible for, as the instructions were the manufacturers instructions.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Mr C responded and said the instructions stated that the boiler could be installed with three 
wires, and that the supplier had also said this to him prior to him purchasing the boiler. He 
said the supplier had recommended the boiler as a replacement for his existing boiler and 
that it should have been a like for like swap over. Mr C said he feels that he was misled by 
the supplier and he thought the supplier was responsible. 
Barclaycard responded and said it accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the further comments made by Mr C. But these havent changed my 
decision. I remain of the view that there isnt enough evidence here to show that theres 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Mr C has asserted that the supplier said 
certain things to him but as I have explained in my provisional decision, theres no evidence 
of these discussions or anything to suggest that the supplier told Mr C that the boiler was 
suitable for his current installation.
For these reasons  as well as the other reasons given in my provisional decision - Im 
unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman