DRN-4386327
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the amount AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
paid in settlement of a claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Miss S is unhappy with the valuation placed on her 
vehicle following a total loss claim under her policy.
Shes also unhappy with AAs handling of her claim and complaint. Particularly, that her car 
would not have been a total loss if it werent for AAs recovery service failing to pick up her 
car from the correct place following the accident  which resulted in it suffering additional 
damage. 
Our investigator thought Miss Ss claim should be upheld. She said AA based its valuation 
on two of the industry guides our service typically relies on. But given Miss Ss concerns 
about the valuation, and the adverts she provided, our investigator said AA should have 
checked additional guides. Our investigator checked the additional guides herself, and 
based on this, suggested AA should increase the valuation placed on Miss Ss vehicle from, 
£14,187 to £15,225. 
Our investigator agreed AA had caused Miss S some distress and inconvenience in its poor 
handling of the recovery and the claim in general. But she thought its apology and offer of 
£200 compensation was fair, so she didnt think AA needed to do anything further.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement had been reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So,  I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to respond before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, 
although Im intending to award a slightly higher amount of compensation and 
interest on the claim settlement. Ill explain why.
Miss Ss policy covers her for the market value of her vehicle, at the time of loss 
 which is fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, 
age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
AA based its valuation on the average of two valuations it obtained from some of the 
recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies on when 
considering this type of complaint. It used the correct mileage and date of loss when 
obtaining these valuations, which were:
Glasss: £14,780
CAP: £13,595
AA says it also obtained a valuation from Autotrader of £13,610  however this 
valuation doesnt appear to be from the Autotrader valuation tool our service has 
access to, nor does it appear to take into account the date of loss or mileage. 
So, Ill not be taking this valuation into account when deciding what I think is fair.
Based on the valuations it obtained, AA offered Miss S a total settlement of 
£14,187  the average of the Glasss and CAP guides. So, it appears AA too 
decided not to take its Autotrader figure into account.
Miss S complains that the valuation placed on her vehicle by AA is too low. She 
says she is unable to replace her vehicle with one of a similar make and model 
for that amount. Shes provided several adverts for similar cars being offered for 
sale at higher amounts than hers.
Taking into account the difference between AAs valuations and the adverts, our 
investigator obtained her own valuations from two additional trade guides our service 
typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations. She used the 
same mileage and date of loss when obtaining these valuations, which provided the 
following market value figures:
Percayso (formerly Cazana and Cazoo): £15,017
Autotrader: £15,493
Our services normal approach in these types of complaints, considers that a figure 
within the range of valuations returned by the motor trade guides is typically fair. This 
is unless theres other evidence, such as sales adverts, which suggest a valuation at 
the higher or lower end would be fairer.
In this case, Im persuaded that the adverts provided by Miss S support a valuation at 
the higher end of the range would be fairer. Of the four adverts Miss S has provided, 
two are for cars of the same age, make and model, and both have broadly similar 
mileage (one within 4,000 miles and the other within 10,000). These cars were 
advertised for sale at £15,971 and £16,999 respectively. The other two adverts are 
for larger cars with different specifications, so I havent taken these into account.Ive considered the fact that the lower mileage would likely have an impact on the 
sale price, and that advertised prices are often the starting point of a negotiation, 
rather than the price the car actually sells for. But because of recent changes in the 
market, we are increasingly hearing of cars selling either for or close to their 
advertised price. And even taking into account the lower mileage, Im of the view that 
the two adverts Miss S has provided support a valuation at the higher end of the 
range would be fairer in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the above, I consider a fair valuation for Miss S car would be the average 
of the two highest guides  Percayso and Autotrader. This amounts to £15,225. So, 
in order to fairly put things right, Im currently minded to decide that AA should 
increase the total settlement paid to Miss S to £15,225. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on any amount which remains unpaid, from 8 November 2022 (one month 
after the date of loss) to the date Miss S is reimbursed. This is to compensate Miss S 
for being deprived of funds I believe she was reasonably entitled to under her policy. 
This also recognises that there were unreasonable delays in reaching the initial offer 
of settlement, but also that AA would always have needed a reasonable period of 
time to investigate, accept and settle the claim.
Miss S has also complained about AAs handling of his claim. She says the claims 
process took too long, and her car only became a total loss due to AAs mishandling 
of things. She says this had a significant impact on both her health and finances. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that happened. Its not in dispute that AA is at 
fault for the recovery issue, and for the car becoming a total loss as a result. It has 
recognised and apologised for this and offered compensation. AA also recognises 
that the claim took too long to conclude. However, AA says it continued to provide a 
courtesy car during this period, despite Miss Ss policy not covering this, which I 
agree will have mitigated the inconvenience experienced here.
Taking everything into account, I think the £200 already paid by AA is sufficient to 
compensate Miss S for the distress and inconvenience caused by its claim handling 
errors. Namely the overall time taken, the distress caused by finding out the car 
suffered further damage due to recovery error and the inconvenience of having to 
source a new car.
However, Im also mindful that Miss S has suffered additional distress and 
inconvenience as a result of AA reaching, in my view, an unfair valuation for her car 
when initially settling her claim. So, in addition to the £200 it has already offered, I 
think AA should pay Miss S a further £100 to recognise the additional impact this has 
had on her.
By paying the increased valuation Ive suggested, the interest Ive outlined and a total 
of £300 compensation, I think AA will have done enough to fairly resolve Miss Ss 
claim and complaint.
I asked both sides to send any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.AA responded to ask for clarification as to the date of loss our service used when obtaining 
valuations. Following this, it confirmed it accepted my provisional findings.
Miss S also provided a response to my provisional decision. In summary she said:
AA didnt simply leave her with the hire car to help her. They made several attempts 
to withdraw it at short notice, which was stressful, and only left it with her due to her 
contacting them and arguing her case.
Her car is the largest size of the model, so shes not sure what I meant when I said 
some of the adverts she provided were for larger models.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, 
my provisional conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
Miss S has questioned what I meant when I said some of her adverts were for larger models 
of her car. She says hers is the largest size, and second highest spec, available. Ive re-
checked the adverts and have seen that I erroneously interpreted Miss Ss car to be a five-
seater rather than a five door, seven-seater. So, Ive gone on to reconsider my findings in 
light of this.
Of the two additional adverts, I previously didnt consider, one is for a later registration year 
with around 9,000 less miles than Miss Ss car. Given these differences, Im still minded to 
discount this advert. But the other advertised car is from the same registration year, with 
around 4,000 less miles than Miss Ss car, and was advertised for sale at £15,996. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this advert is sufficient to demonstrate that the 
increased valuation outlined in my provisional decision would be unfair. But as explained, 
advertised prices are often the starting point of a negotiation and not always what the car 
sells for. And again, Im mindful that this car has slightly lower mileage than Miss Ss car, 
which would potentially impact the advertised and actual sale price. So, including this advert 
isnt sufficient to persuade me that that the valuation at the higher end of the guides would 
be unfair and unreasonable. Rather, when considered alongside the other adverts, I think it 
further supports my provisional conclusion that a fair settlement in this particular case would 
be the average of the two highest guide valuations, which was £15,225, rather than the 
average of all four guides.
Miss S has also highlighted that AA caused her additional distress and inconvenience by 
seeking to withdraw the hire car at short notice. Ive thought about this, and I appreciate that 
would have been unduly stressful for Miss S. But having considered everything that 
happened, in the round, Im still of the view that the additional compensation I suggested in 
my provisional decision, alongside the increased valuation and interest award, are sufficient 
to fairly resolve Miss Ss claim and complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ss 
complaint.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must:
Increase the valuation placed on Miss Ss car to £15,225 and pay her any amount 
which remains outstanding.
On the additional amount due to Miss S, pay 8% simple interest* from 
8 November 2022 to the date Miss S is reimbursed
Pay Miss S a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
*If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman