DRN-2415395
The complaint
Mrs G complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs refusal to give her the refund she has 
requested.
Mrs G is represented in her complaint, by her husband who I will call Mr B. However, to 
make this decision easier to read and understand I have referred to Mrs G throughout.
What happened
Mrs G complains that she booked a seven day package holiday overseas via a third party 
firm I will call S. According to Mrs G this supplier [S] changed the dates of our holiday at 
the last moment and when we arrived, the hotel was not actually open. Mrs G initially 
suggested to us that she and her husband tried to leave straight away. In particular she said, 
we arranged to leave but as this was on the island of [name of island] (a small island) there 
were limited flights out and we booked the first one out at a substantial cost to us as we had 
to book accommodation/ travel/ transfers as well together with food and drink. This cost us 
circa £5,000. 
In addition, Mrs G also had a second foreign holiday booked. Her initial plan had been to 
return home before going on the second holiday. But because the date of her first holiday 
changed she decided instead to travel from the location of her first holiday to the location of 
her second holiday going via a city on the route between the two locations. As a result, she 
booked a hotel in that city. She used a third party firm who I will call H to find and book the 
hotel. However, she indicates H misrepresented the location of the hotel to her. Specifically, 
she indicates that the hotel was described as being in the city centre but was not. She 
suggests if she had realised where the hotel was situated as opposed to where the hotel 
was described as being located (which in her opinion were two different things) she would 
never have booked that hotel. As soon as she realised where the hotel was Mrs G cancelled 
her hotel booking. Mrs G adds we made alternative hotel arrangements at a cost of £1,000. 
Mrs G also indicates that the hotel room was sold to someone else anyway and she thinks 
this is an important part of her complaint.
Mrs G used her credit card provided by HSBC for both transactions. She is looking to HSBC 
for a refund of all the costs that she considers she incurred because of what she sees as 
misrepresentation and breach of contract by S and H. This includes the entire cost of the 
holiday booked with S, the cost of the hotel room booked via H, and what Mrs G sees as 
being her consequential losses. Mrs G also considers that there is fraud involved.
Mrs G is also dissatisfied with how HSBC went about trying to get her money back for her. In 
particular, her stance is that HSBC never got to grips with her complaint and in any event it 
did not follow the chargeback rules to the letter, and she lost out as a result, (Ill explain what 
chargeback is below). 
HSBC used a process known as chargeback to try to recover some of Mrs Gs money for 
her. Chargeback is a process which allows credit card users to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there's a problem with goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The process is 
limited to specific criteria and HSBC has no discretion about the criteria which are set down 
in the chargeback rules. Further, those chargeback rule are set by a third party company 
which operates the chargeback scheme  in this case Mastercard. Chargeback could only 
have been used to recover the money paid on the credit card for the package holiday and 
the hotel booking; even it had succeeded it could never have been used to recover the 
additional costs Mrs G talks about.
It's HSBCs position that although it took the claim against S as far as it could, it failed 
because there was no proper basis for a successful claim under the chargeback rules. The 
rules allow merchants to provide a defence to chargeback claims. Ss defence to the 
chargeback was, in summary, that Mrs G received the services she paid for in full. At the 
time she did not cancel and find alternative accommodation. Rather, she stayed at the hotel 
despite suggesting the facilities did not come up to scratch.  Moreover, she accepted the 
change of date for the holiday so she cant go back on that now and complain about it. 
(I also note, as an aside that before she went on the holiday it appears that Mrs G asked 
both to be able to go on the holiday and get all her money back, but S declined this 
proposal.) Further, the defence was that she also got a free upgrade on her holiday 
accommodation. Having looked at the information provided, Mastercard ruled against Mrs G.
As to the claim against H, HSBC says again that H had a complete defence. Hs position 
was that Mrs G booked the hotel at a discounted rate. One of the conditions of the discount 
was that payment had to be made immediately and that the booking was not cancellable 
regardless of whether the guest stayed or not. Again, Mastercard ruled against Mrs G.
Dissatisfied, Mrs G came to our service.
One of our investigators took a look at Mrs Gs complaint. In short, he didnt agree that 
HSBC had done anything wrong for which it ought to compensate Mrs G as she requested.
HSBC accepted our investigators conclusion, but, Mrs G did not. In summary, she repeated 
her earlier stance. In particular, she laid emphasis on her opinion that the first hotel had in 
fact been closed when she stayed there. On this basis she suggests she did not get what 
she paid for and she underlined that for her this point is fundamental. She also indicated that 
in her opinion, shed sent in information to show the hotel booking had been cancellable. 
She also pointed out once again that the hotel then resold the room anyway so made no 
loss. She added this was also fundamental to her complaint. 
We could go no further at the investigation stage of our process, so I have been asked to 
take a fresh look at Mrs Gs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There are two routes which HSBC could have used to get back the money that Mrs G paid 
out for the package holiday and for the second hotel. These are chargeback and also Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) I have looked at each in turn 
below. But to manage Mrs Gs expectations, I will tell her upfront, that looking at both routes 
separately I have come to the conclusion that I have no proper basis to tell HSBC that it has 
to do anything further. I explain why I have come to this conclusion below.
did HSBC mishandle the chargeback?
Ive already explained how chargeback works. If I am to order HSBC to refund all or part of 
the cost of the package holiday and or the hotel, I must be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in 
the way it made a chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations. Mrs G suggests that 
HSBC acted incorrectly here because it didnt get to the heart of her complaint and didnt 
give her a final chance to make her case once the chargeback had reached its final stage. 
She further suggests this led to her missing out on a chargeback refund. I can see she holds 
very firmly to this view, but I dont agree with her stance. I can see that HSBC put her case 
on her behalf to Mastercard using the information she provided, so I dont see it is fair or 
reasonable to suggest HSBC did not get to grips with the complaint. The fact of the matter is 
having looked at what she said via HSBC and what the merchants said Mastercard, 
preferred the merchants take on matters. Mrs G wanted to make further representations, but 
what she appears to see as the clinching arguments shed have put forward would not on 
balance have cut any ice. I have seen all the arguments she has outlined, in great detail, and 
the defences of the merchants would have most likely defeated them all.
It follows therefore I have no fair or reasonable grounds for saying HSBC let Mrs G down 
based on how it carried out the chargeback. Neither can I fairly or reasonably find that she 
suffered a loss as a result.
was either contract mispresented or breached?
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation and or a breach of contract, then he has a like claim against 
the credit provider.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Gs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mrs G pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Earlier on HSBC suggested Mrs G did not have any rights in relation to Section 75 as 
against S for what she saw as misrepresentations and breaches of contract. However, we 
told HSBC that, because Mrs G had purchased a package holiday from S, we thought its 
initial position on this was incorrect. It appears that HSBC has now accepted this. So, I have 
gone on to look at whether there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
In this context a misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that led Mrs G to enter 
into the contract. As I have already mentioned. Mrs G has put a great deal of emphasis on 
her suggestion that the first hotel was closed. But it is clear she stayed in the hotel for six out 
of seven days of her holiday. Moreover, she could have stayed for day seven too but she 
had to leave she has told us on day six so she could get to her second holiday. That being 
so, I dont agree that the hotel was closed. A closed hotel is a hotel that is not operating and 
not housing guests.
I then looked at whether there had been a breach of contract. Mrs G was entitled to expect 
that she would get the services and products she had paid for and that theyd be delivered 
with reasonable skill and care and be of satisfactory quality. When looking at if this standard was reached Im looking broadly at what would be reasonably expected in these 
circumstances rather than the subjective expectations that Mrs G may have had.
Mrs G says the contract was breached because the date of the holiday was moved. But she 
accepted this change by going on the holiday at the new date. It would not be fair or 
reasonable for me to say just because she now may regret accepting this change she should 
get the remedy she would have been entitled to if she had not accepted the change. 
Mrs G also complains that she did not get what she had been promised and paid for when at 
the hotel. Its clear that Mrs G is highly dissatisfied with a number of elements of the holiday. 
I have seen what she said about each point. Each point she raised is denied in detail by the 
hotel. S and HSBC seem to be accepting and relying on the hotels defence too. 
It is clear there was a mismatch between what Mrs G expected and what she got. I can tell 
she found that frustrating and unacceptable. But that is not enough to say she did not get 
what she paid for. I also take account of the fact that Mrs G describes the hotel as closed 
when it was not, and this has impacted on the weight I feel able to give to her account of 
events.
Further, Mrs G suggests the hotel did not meet her very specific needs. But she continued to 
stay there for six out of the seven days, which does not suggest she found what was on offer 
unacceptable. For example, she mentions needing to use spa facilities seemingly on a daily 
basis, which she tells us were not available or were unsatisfactory at the hotel, from day 3. 
That said she does not appear to have gone elsewhere during her holiday to find alternative 
spa facilities on a daily basis. She explains that there were no exercise classes available but 
in the next line tells us how a fellow guest injured himself in an exercise class.
Mrs G says she did not use the return portion of her plane ticket. But that service was 
available to her she just chose not to use that ticket as she had made a decision to go 
elsewhere. That was her choice to make. But I cant fairly and reasonably say because she 
made that choice HSBC is responsible for that and has to compensate her.
Moreover, even if I was persuaded by Mrs Gs version of events, which on balance I am not, 
I cannot see that it would be right to say that a full refund should be made - that would 
wrongly imply that no service at all had been received. Nor would I be able to fairly require 
HSBC to pay what Mrs G suggests are her consequential expenses. None of these 
expenses such as Mrs Gs purchase of additional luggage, seem to flow from anything 
HSBC is responsible for. Rather they appear to stem from Mrs Gs decision to go directly 
from her first holiday to her second one.
In the circumstances, I dont on balance find it likely that Mrs G did not get the services and 
products she paid for. It follows I dont agree that HSBC needs to compensate her. 
Mrs G indicates that the second hotel was described as being in the city centre before she 
booked it and that is why she went ahead and reserved a room. But I have not seen what 
she saw when she booked. I have seen information about where the hotel is situated. Mrs G 
was staying in a very large city. In that context I dont agree that the hotel was not centrally 
located. 
Moreover, the second hotel says Mrs G paid less on the basis that her booking was non-
cancellable. Nothing she has sent has shown this was not the case. Rather, she has sent in 
information showing that some reservations booked on Hs site were cancellable but that 
does not show that policy related to her specific booking.
It does not matter for these purposes if the second hotel was able to sell the room to 
someone else. As her complaint does not rely on whether the second hotel made a loss or 
not. Instead it is about whether the contract was misrepresented or breached, although I can 
understand that Mrs G may find it galling to have to pay for a hotel room that was then paid 
for a second time by someone else.For the reasons I have gone through, I dont think I have any fair or reasonable basis for 
saying HSBC must compensate Mrs G in relation to the second hotel either.
I realise Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with HSBC informally, can do for her. 
Mrs G mentions fraud but that is a criminal matter and we have no power to make findings 
about criminal matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman