DRN-3162690
The complaint
Mr M complained that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when providing him with 
two credit cards and increasing the credit limit three times on the second card.  
What happened
Mr M applied for the first credit card online in February 2016. His application showed he was 
employed and earning £19,000 a year. Capital One provided the card with a limit of £200 
initially. 
Mr M applied for the second credit card online in January 2017. His application showed he 
was employed and that he was earning £24,000 a year. This card was also provided with a 
limit of £200.
The credit limit for the second card was increased to £700 in October 2017, to £950 in 
December 2018 and finally to £1,450 in December 2019. 
In 2020 Mr M closed both accounts and complained to Capital One. He said it had lent to 
him irresponsibly, especially when allowing a high credit limit for the second card and 
increasing the credit limit on several occasions despite him never repaying the balance in 
full. Mr M said the cards put him further into debt  and as Capital One hadnt carried out 
credit checks, the lending was irresponsible. 
Capital One responded to say it had checked Mr Ms credit file at the time of the first 
application and that it contained nothing to suggest it shouldnt offer the card to Mr M. It 
added that the account was opened with a low credit limit of £200. Regarding the second 
card, Capital One said it had checked his credit file and although there were two defaults 
showing, they werent recent to the application and that those balances were being reduced. 
It said the credit limit increases applied to the second card were optional to Mr M and that it 
had been entitled to offer them in the circumstances.
Unhappy with Capital Ones response, Mr M complained to us. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld in part. They believed Capital One 
was entitled to provide both credit cards with the initial credit limits given and that the first 
increase to the credit limit for the second card was fair. But the investigator thought that 
Capital One shouldnt have offered the final two credit limit increases to the second card. 
They said that, to put things right for Mr M, Capital One should pay him back for the interest 
and charges incurred from the time of the second credit limit increase in December 2018, 
plus 8% simple interest.   
Capital One accepted the investigators findings and said it calculated the amount of 
compensation it owed Mr M to be £133.69. Mr M said hed accept £600.
The investigator thought Capital Ones offer was likely to be too low but that the figure Mr M 
had arrived at was likely to be too high, based on the information provided. Mr M agreed for 
the case to be referred to an ombudsman to review afresh. 
I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision in October 2021. In it, I 
explained why I intended to uphold the complaint in part. Essentially, I thought that Capital 
One had lent irresponsibly to Mr M regarding the first credit limit increase on the second 
credit card (as well as in relation to the second and third increases) but not regarding either 
of the initial credit card applications. I also asked Capital One to pay Mr M £100 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions had caused him.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Mr M 
confirmed receipt of my decision but didnt add anything to it.
Capital One said it had nothing to add to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
As with my provisional decision, Im not going to address the lending decisions regarding the 
second and third credit limit increases to the second credit card in any detail here  other 
than to confirm that I agree with the investigators findings on them and their reasoning. 
Thats because the parties already agree Capital One shouldnt have offered the increases 
to Mr M and that it needs to put things right for him as a result (more on which later). 
Instead, Ive focussed on the aspects of the complaint that remained in dispute prior to my 
provisional decision  that is, Capital Ones decision to offer both credit cards in the first 
place and to offer the first credit limit increase in relation to the second card. 
Having done so, I confirm my decision not to uphold those aspects of the complaint relating 
to the initial credit card offers but to uphold the aspect concerning the first credit limit 
increase. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Capital One treated 
Mr M fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit. These include:
1) Did Capital One complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Capital One make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Capital One act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Capital One complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Capital One had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr M could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Capital One needed to carry out, but they did 
set out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Capital Ones checks 
needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of 
credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks Capital One needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr M any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr M had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Capital One would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, 
as it would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Capital One completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay his credit cards in 
a sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the two credit card applications are as follows:
Mr M was applying for the first credit card which had an effective interest rate (EIR) of 
35.94% and the second credit card which had an EIR of 34.94%.
Mr M was recorded by Capital One as having a yearly income of £19,000 when the first 
credit card was taken out and of £24,000 when the second credit card was taken out. 
The initial credit limits of £200 were fairly low, particularly when compared with Mr Ms 
recorded earnings. 
When Capital One assessed Mr Ms applications in 2016 and 2017, it used information 
provided by him as well as through checking some of his credit details via two credit rating 
agencies. The checks showed no evidence of visible defaults, county court judgments 
(CCJs) or late marks in the 12 months leading up to the point of the first application. 
I cant see that Capital One assessed Mr Ms outgoings. But, given that he declared his 
earnings to be £19,000 and £24,000 a year respectively and that Capital One set a relatively 
modest credit limit of £200 on both occasions, Ive no reasonable cause to think those levels 
of borrowing should have been viewed as being unaffordable for him or should have led to 
further checks.
Regarding the second application, it seems Mr Ms income had increased since 2016. One 
of the credit rating agencys credit file checks showed two defaults, but that neither were 
recent to the applications. The information showed both lines of credit had since reduced to 
some extent. Capital One said the first credit card account it had offered Mr M and other 
active agreements appeared to be in good order. 
Taking all of this into account I believe that, overall, its arguable that Capital One carried out 
proportionate checks before approving both credit cards. 
But Capital One should also have carried out appropriate checks before offering to increase 
the credit limit on Mr Ms second card. The first increase  which, as Ive said, is the only increase I needed to address in any detail 
in this decision  was for £500. So, it was for a relatively significant amount given the 
amount of credit offered before. Although the information thats available is limited, it seems 
Capital One checked some of Mr Ms credit details. In doing so, it discovered a default from 
42 months prior but none that were more recent to the check. The check indicated his non-
mortgage related debts nevertheless amounted to £1,500. But there was no indication 
regarding Mr Ms payments on the other lending or evidence as to how well he was coping 
with it.
I think this should have put Capital One on notice that more borrower focussed checks would 
have been appropriate in the circumstances. This is especially so considering Mr M was 
consistently already using a high proportion of the £200 credit limit for the second card each 
month. Although Mr M was generally making more than the minimum monthly repayments, 
all but one of his repayments were for £50. So, he was never close to paying off the existing 
balance in full, or even most of it. 
Bearing all of this in mind I dont believe the checks Capital One carried out prior to the first 
credit limit increase were, on balance, proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think Capital One should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were 
adapted to the circumstances of its offer to Mr M. An increase of £500 represented a 
relatively substantial extra financial burden in addition to his other borrowing. Given this and 
the information Capital One had about Mr M further checks would, in my opinion, have 
needed to verify his expenditure. These would have been in addition to the checks it carried 
out and establish that he was able to afford the increased credit limit. 
One of the difficulties given the length of time since the credit limit increase was offered is 
understanding what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown, if Capital One 
had carried them out. Our investigator asked Mr M for a copy of his full credit report. Mr M 
hasnt been able to provide this as he didnt join the credit agency whose report hes 
provided until after the time in question. The investigator suggested that, as Mr M hadnt 
been able to provide this information, they hadnt been able to assess what better checks 
would have shown, or for them to say it was wrong of Capital One to have lent to Mr M.
It could potentially be problematic to assess detriment in this case as Capital One hasnt, in 
my opinion, carried out the appropriate borrower focussed checks that the circumstances of 
the credit advance suggest should have been carried out. And its also potentially difficult as 
Mr H hasnt been able to provide the additional information our investigator asked him for. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M hasnt suffered detriment, or that Im not able to 
determine whether the extra credit was sustainably affordable for him.
I say this because the credit limit was first increased four years ago. And I dont think, given 
the length of time thats passed since then, that its necessarily surprising or unreasonable 
that Mr M hasnt been able to provide the information our investigator asked him for. And the 
reality is that, if Capital One had carried out the reasonable and proportionate borrower 
focussed checks that it should have done when the affordability of the credit limit increase 
was being assessed, then Mr M wouldnt need to be asked to provide that information now.
Did Capital One make a fair lending decision?  
From the information obtained and provided by Capital One, theres little to suggest Mr M 
was struggling financially when he applied for the credit cards. I cant see anything in the information obtained by Capital One at those times that should 
have given it reason to believe those credit advances were unaffordable for Mr M or that 
they were unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.  
On that basis, I cant fairly say that it was irresponsible of Capital One to give Mr M either 
card with the credit limits offered.
Regarding the first credit limit increase, however, I believe the indications are that better 
checks by Capital One would have highlighted that Mr Ms financial situation was such that 
the additional credit he was being offered was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.
Did Capital One act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Capital One acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M  in relation to the 
initial credit card applications  in some other way.
Putting things right in relation to the credit limit increases
The investigator, in upholding the complaint regarding the final two credit limit increases, 
essentially asked Capital One to refund to Mr M all the interest and charges paid on the 
second credit card account from the date of the second credit limit increase, plus 8% simple 
interest. 
As a result, Mr Ms believes hes owed £600. Thats based on what he calls bad will and 
Capital Ones lack of cooperation.
On the other hand, Capital One argues that the total amount of compensation owed to Mr M 
is £133.69. The investigator went back to Capital One to ask for a detailed breakdown of its 
calculations on the grounds that his own rough calculations, based on the final credit limit 
increase in 2019 alone, suggested an amount in the region of £197 plus 8% interest. Capital 
One maintained that the amount it had arrived at was correct but provided no detailed 
explanation as to how it had reached that figure.
I believe Capital One, as the lender, is best-placed to provide clarity around what Mr Ms 
fairly owed in line with my findings. So, I havent attempted to work out exactly what it owes 
him. Instead, I think its more appropriate for me to direct Capital One to calculate redress 
using the methodology Ive set out below. I think this is a fair and reasonable way of 
assessing and calculating Mr Ms losses.  
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt been given 
any of the credit limit increases. 
A. Capital One should work out how much Mr M would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the increases hadnt been applied. It should remove any interest charged on 
the extra money lent. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed. So, this 
means that it should only apply any interest on the first £200 of any outstanding balance. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had the increases. B. Capital One should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. If  when Capital One works out what Mr M would have owed each month without the 
increases  he paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr M would have owed Capital One something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple a year.  
D. Capital One should tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C. Capital One should 
also remove any adverse information its recorded against Mr M on his credit file as a result 
of these credit limit increases. 
Finally, I believe Capital Ones refusal to provide a compensation calculation when 
requested has caused Mr M unnecessary distress and inconvenience. He already felt 
Capital One wasnt co-operating with him or us and I believe its responses to our queries 
about the calculations only added to his perception, as well as serving to delay matters 
unnecessarily. So, in addition to the above, I believe Capital One should pay him £100 as 
compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital 
One must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Capital One 
(Europe) plc to put things right for Mr M as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman