DRN-4035138
The complaint
Miss B complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B had a contents insurance policy with Aviva. Amongst other benefits, this gave 
accidental damage cover to Miss B.
In 2022, Aviva told Miss B it was cancelling her contents insurance policy with effect from 1 
October 2022. It said, in summary, it had undertaken a review due to the number and 
frequency of claims made by her and found three claims of the same type made by Miss B 
within the past two years. As well as cancelling the policy, it didnt agree to cover Miss Bs 
last claim.
Miss B responded to say there were a lot of claims because of her specific circumstances at 
home. Aviva considered this but didnt change its decision to cancel the cover. Miss B didnt 
think shed been treated fairly, so she asked our service for an independent review. 
The Investigator looked into matters and thought Aviva acted in line with the policy terms 
and didnt treat Miss B unfairly when it made the decision to cancel the policy. So, they didnt 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Miss B didnt agree with the Investigators recommendation. She said Avivas decision has 
affected her life - she can longer get insurance and her credit score has been affected which 
has impacted her mental health. She doesnt recall the limit on claims being a part of the 
terms and conditions and wants the cancellation marker removed from her records. 
The Investigator and Miss B communicated about this, but these points didnt change the 
Investigators view. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Miss B I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. 
So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
To cancel Miss Bs cover, Aviva has relied on the follow term which is set out on the first 
page of the document titled Notice to Policyholders and Annual Review Notice. In bold it 
says, Changes to your policy you need to know about.
We  may cancel this policy and/or any additional cover options provided by Aviva 
where there is a valid reason for doing so, by sending at least 7 days written notice to 
your last known postal and/or e-mail address setting out the reason for cancellation.
Valid reasons include but are not limited to the following:

 Where you have made 3 claims of the same type within the past 2 years.
I dont find this term unreasonable given the nature of an insurance contract. What I must 
decide, therefore, is whether Aviva applied this term fairly. To explain its decision, Aviva has 
provided information demonstrating Miss Bs accidental damage claims history.
- January 2020 Sofa
- July 2020 TV
- November 2020 TV
- November 2020 Nintendo Switch
- April 2021 Nintendo Switch
- July 2021 TV
- August 2021 Hoover
- September 2022 Nintendo Switch
In October 2022, Aviva says it carried out a review of Miss Bs policy due to the number and 
frequency of claims made by her. As a result, it decided to rely on the above-mentioned term 
as the September 2022 claim was the third claim of the same type in two years. 
I find it reasonable for Aviva to decide the claims history - even with the backdrop of what 
Miss B has said about her home life  allowed it to cancel Miss Bs policy and decline her 
latest claim.
I appreciate Miss B says its an unfair situation and she doesnt recall the term being a part 
of the policy. But Ive seen Aviva wrote to her in December 2021 to let her know it had 
concerns with the number of claims being made which could lead to the insurance policy 
being affected. It said it hadnt decided to take any action at that time, but it would monitor 
the situation and any further claims made. When it renewed the policy in 2022, it also sent 
Miss B information about her policy. And this clearly set out the term which Aviva is now 
seeking to rely on.
I note Miss B says she took this policy out because of her circumstances at home. And she 
feels the household has been discriminated against as her children only caused the damage 
which led to these claims because of their additional needs and disabilities. However, I think 
its important at this point to note the descriptions of the claims suggest a variety of causes 
which led to them being made. Even so, whilst I can understand why Miss B feels this way, 
having looked at all the evidence, I dont think Aviva has discriminated against her 
household. Nor do I consider Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably when considering its 
decision to cancel her policy and decline the latest claim, for the reasons set out above. I 
hope it helps Miss B to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her 
concerns.
I know Miss B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Aviva  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman