DRN-4054725
The complaint
Mr L has complained that he was unable to contact the insurer to disclose pre-existing 
medical conditions on a travel insurance policy provided as a benefit of a fee-paying 
Privilege packaged account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they did not uphold the complaint. 
They concluded that the insurer, not The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) is responsible 
for any dissatisfaction Mr L may have with how the travel insurance policy is administered.
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. So the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having looked at everything that Mr L and Co-op Bank have provided, I am unable to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr L has complained that he experienced difficulties with the Privilege account travel 
insurance, when trying to disclose pre-existing medical conditions to the insurer. I 
understand that he ended up buying travel insurance elsewhere as he was unable to get in 
contact with the travel insurer to disclose his pre-existing medical conditions.
I can see that this matter has been greatly frustrating for Mr L. However, it is the case, as 
Co-op Bank and the adjudicator explained, that if Mr L is dissatisfied with the service (or lack 
of service) that he received when trying to contact the travel insurer, he would need to raise 
his concerns directly with the travel insurer. This is because the travel insurer, not Co-op 
Bank, is responsible for the administration of the travel insurance  and that is the case even 
if the travel insurance is provided as a feature of packaged bank account, as is the case 
here.
I note that, rather unhelpfully, Co-op Bank took some time to respond to Mr Ls complaint 
and it addressed concerns about the account being mis-sold  which Mr L insists is not what 
he has complained about. However, I note that Co-op Bank has consistently said that Mr L 
will need to raise his concerns with the insurer. 
Indeed, I can see that in the final response letter, Co-op Bank says it had contacted the 
relevant department, which I understand to be the relevant department of the travel insurer. 
However, if it is the case that the insurer then didnt contact Mr L about his complaint within 8 
weeks of being informed about it, I cant reasonably hold Co-op Bank responsible for the 
travel insurers failure to contact Mr L. Again that is something Mr L will have to take up with 
the insurer.
As such, whilst I have some sympathy for Mr L and this matter has clearly been very 
frustrating for him, at the same time I cant reasonably hold Co-op Bank responsible for Mr 
Ls dissatisfaction with a third party. And importantly, I can see that Co-op Bank has correctly 
explained that Mr L will need to direct his complaint to the third-party travel insurer as that is 
responsible for the issue that he has complained about. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman