DRN-3537285
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has rejected his claim under his 
Tenants Contents Insurance policy for irreparable damage to a tablet.
What happened
Mr B submitted a claim to Ageas in January 2022 for damage to a tablet computer. Mr B 
says that the damage was caused by his falling on top of the tablet with his arm between the 
ground and the tablet. The tablet was between his stomach and his arm. The tablet was 
badly bent, and the battery caught fire.
Ageas arranged for a report from its specialist suppliers to determine the cause of the 
damage and whether it was beyond repair. In their opinion the damage wasnt consistent 
with a fall as described by Mr B even taking into account Mr Bs weight as a human body is 
more likely to bend around a device. They felt the damage was more in keeping with the 
tablet being hit with considerable force against a hard edge such as a door frame, wall or 
table. 
Ageass suppliers also noted that the IMEI number of the tablet claimed for didnt match the 
proof of purchase supplied by Mr B. 
Ageas was of the view that the damage to the tablet had been caused deliberately, which is 
an exclusion under his policy. It rejected Mr Bs claim.
Mr B brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator in his Investigation Outcome said 
that he was satisfied that Ageass rejection of Mr Bs claim was fair and reasonable.
Mr B has said he doesnt agree with our investigators view. He maintains that the damage 
was capable of being caused by someone of his weight falling on top of a tablet with his arm 
between the ground and the tablet. He hasnt provided any clarification about the 
inconsistency between the IMEI number of the damaged tablet and the proof of purchase he 
provided. 
Mr B has requested that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been 
passed to me to make a final decision from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why not.
I have to consider whether, in rejecting Mr Bs claim, Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the terms of his policy.
In my view it has. It referred Mr Bs tablet to its specialist suppliers who are experienced in 
the examination of damaged devices. I think it was reasonable for Ageas to be advised by 
them. I consider that their professional opinion is persuasive and there is no evidence 
provided by Mr B other than his own account of events that would bring the view of Ageass 
specialists into question. 
I therefore dont consider that Ageas has acted unreasonably in relying on the advice of its 
experts and coming to the view that the damage to Mr Bs tablet was deliberately caused, 
and Mr Bs policy states that it doesnt cover loss or damage caused intentionally.
I also consider that its reasonable for Ageas to reject a claim for a damaged item if no 
satisfactory proof of ownership is provided.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman