DRN-2861719
The complaint
Miss P complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) declined 
her claim on her roadside assistance  parts and garages policy.  
What happened
Miss P had a roadside assistance policy, that included a parts and garages extension. This 
was underwritten by AAIS. The extension covered only vehicles specified by Miss P and 
detailed on her policy schedule.
In March 2021 Miss P wanted to remove one of the vehicles on the policy and replace it with 
another. She tried to do this through the website. Shortly after this she called AAIS to 
confirm when the parts and garage cover would start for the new vehicle. The staff member 
told her that the cover doesnt apply until 14 days after the change is made, however 
breakdown cover applies straight away.
In April 2021 Miss P needed to make a claim on her parts and garages cover. She called 
AAIS and was told the vehicle she was claiming for wasnt on the policy. They said the 
previous vehicles were the only on cover. This meant she wasnt able to make a claim for 
the new vehicle.
Miss P wasnt happy with this as she said she had changed the policy over to the new 
vehicle. She made a complaint as she thought the claim should be covered.
AAIS didnt uphold her complaint. It said when making a change to the parts and garages 
extension, the website states the policyholder needs to call and speak to an advisor. And as 
Miss P didnt do this, the vehicle wasnt updated on her policy. It said as she hadnt been 
able to provide proof that the other vehicle had been sold or written off, then it wouldnt be 
able to cover her claim.
Miss P didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and agreed that AAIS were fair to decline Miss Ps 
claim. However she felt it hadnt been clear with Miss P on the phone that the vehicle hadnt 
been changed over on the policy, which was misleading. So she thought it should pay £100 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience this mistake had caused.
AAIS agreed with our investigators recommendation. However Miss P didnt. She thought 
AAIS should cover her claim or pay additional compensation. She asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint I need to decide if the business got something wrong, and 
where it did what it should do to put things right.
In this case Miss P thinks AAIS should have changed the vehicle on her parts and garages 
policy, when she had intended to do so. She says if it had, the claim she made the following 
month would have been covered.
Miss P tried to change the vehicle online in March 2021. AAIS has provided evidence that 
when this is attempted a message is displayed that states as follows:
If you have Parts and Garage Cover (formerly Breakdown Repair), you'll need to update your
details by calling us.
So I think it would have been clear to Miss P that changing the vehicle online wouldnt be 
successful for her parts and garages cover. As Miss P didnt call AAIS to make the change, 
this meant the vehicles on the cover extension remained the same and the change wasnt 
made. 
For this reason I dont agree that AAIS got something wrong here. The process for changing 
the vehicle was clear. And when making a change to a policy, the onus is on the consumer 
to ensure the correct steps are taken to do so. For this reason the vehicle Miss P wanted to 
claim for wasnt on the policy when she made the claim. And as I dont think AAIS got 
anything wrong, I dont think it has acted unfairly by not covering the claim. 
While Miss P didnt call AAIS to change the vehicle on her policy, she did call to enquire 
about making a claim shortly after she thought she had changed the vehicle on her policy 
online. Ive listened to this call and I agree with our investigator that AAIS provided 
misleading information.
Miss P told the advisor that she had made a change to the vehicles on the policy. She then 
went on to say she may have a claim on the breakdown part of the policy for the vehicle. The 
advisor said that she would need to speak to a different department and transferred her. But 
before doing so they confirmed the registration number of the new vehicle on the policy. And 
repeated this back to Miss P. As the advisor had confirmed a number of Miss Ps details on 
the call, they would have likely been able to see that the vehicle Miss P was trying to claim 
for wasnt on the policy. And I think they should have informed her of that at this point that 
the vehicle wasnt covered. 
But, as the registration number was confirmed to Miss P, I think she would have reasonably 
thought this was confirmation that the vehicle had been changed successfully when she 
attempted to do so online. So I agree this was misleading and AAIS could have done more 
to flag this to Miss P at this point. If it had done, it would have saved Miss P the distress and 
inconvenience of finding out when she later made a claim on the parts and garages part of 
her policy.
Due to this, I agree with our investigators recommendation that AAIS should pay Miss P 
£100 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.  
My final decision
I require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to pay Miss P £100 
compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman