DRN-3821081
The complaint
Mr P says the service hes received from St Jamess Place Wealth Management (SJP) has 
been poor and this has caused him considerable stress and worry and potentially financial 
detriment.
What happened
I start by noting that SJP provides its services through a network of Partners. As principal it 
is responsible for the acts and omissions of those partner firms.
In August 2020 Mr P met with Cooper Associates Wealth Management (CAWM), a Partner 
of SJP. In September 2020 it advised him to switch his Standard Life Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to a Retirement Account with SJP. He accepted the recommendation and 
the transfer took place in November 2020.
CAWM also proposed Mr P should have an ongoing advice service, which he accepted. In 
the suitability report produced in September 2020 it said as part of the arrangement it would 
write to him on the policy anniversary each year to provide him with a valuation and arrange 
a review. It summarised the broader service hed receive in the following terms:
You will receive the service and ongoing advice that I am able to offer. I believe this will be 
of benefit to you in the future because you will not only benefit from regular reviews from 
myself as your dedicated St. Jamess Place Partner, you will also benefit from the expertise 
of the Investment Committee in the selection and on-going monitoring of the fund managers, 
ensuring you are invested in accordance with your attitude to investment risk.
In April 2021 Mr P had some discussions with CAWM about a possible investment he 
wanted to make dependent on proceeds from the sale of a property. However, by August 
2021 he had contacted it to say he wanted to end the agreement with it. He was unhappy 
with the level of service hed been receiving. He instructed the ongoing advice charge of 
0.5% per annum be removed from his pension plan.
Prior to severing his agreement with CAWM, Mr P had been in conversation with Avocet 
Wealth Partnership (AWP) about it taking on the role of his financial adviser. AWP was also 
a Partner of SJP.
AWP made a recommendation to Mr P on 4 October 2021 for him to invest £80,000 of his 
savings in an SJP Unit Trust, in line with his medium attitude to risk. But he informed it on 8 
October he wouldnt be proceeding with the advice at that time due to a change in his 
circumstances.
The next contact between Mr P and AWP appears to have been in February 2022. He was 
concerned about the performance of his pension. But AWP said it wasnt his adviser. Mr P 
contacted SJPs administration centre several times from February 2022 onwards to try and 
get to the bottom of what was going on. 
SJP wasnt able to get to grips with Mr Ps concerns to his satisfaction and so he raised a 
complaint with it in June 2022. This had three main elements, he believed: 
- AWP had been his adviser firm, given a pattern of activity it undertook and its 
engagement with him, and he was never notified otherwise.
- SJP had been slow to respond following his contact in February 2022 - when he 
informed it about the problems he was experiencing - to make sure he did have an 
adviser service in place.
- There was a potential for his pension funds to have suffered erosion because he 
hadnt received advice over an extended period.
SJP responded to Mr P on 17 August 2022. It noted that hed requested CAWMs ongoing 
advice fee to end. Hed remained invested in funds consistent with his attitude to risk during 
the period in question, and it kept fund management performance under review. As such it 
hadnt been unreasonable for him to have remained in the same portfolio during the period in 
question. There was no evidence of financial detriment.
Although it said it wasnt upholding his complaint, SJP did acknowledge there had been 
some problems with the service Mr P received. It summarised its position in the following 
terms:
It is evident that there was a misunderstanding between [CAWM] and [AWP] regarding the 
arrangement around the transfer of servicing of your [Retirement Account], which has in turn 
added to the time taken for SJP to rectify this situation for you. On reflection of the confusion 
caused and the inconvenience you have experienced in recent months, I would like to offer 
my apologies. You have however not been liable to the [ongoing adviser charge] for this 
period; hence I have been unable to uphold your complaint, in view of the fact you have not 
been entitled to advice.
Even though your complaint has not been upheld, as mentioned, I am conscious of the time 
you have taken in the last few months to raise this matter with us and the time it has taken 
SJP to resolve your issue in seeking an SJP Partner to speak to in respect of your plan, 
which is longer than we would have liked. I would like to offer the amount of £200 as a 
gesture of goodwill...
Mr P didnt agree with SJPs response and he brought his complaint to this Service to 
consider. An Investigator reviewed his case but didnt uphold it. While she recognised the 
problems hed experienced in his dealings with SJP, she thought he shouldve been aware 
AWP wasnt servicing his pension. He hadnt been paying for such a service.
Mr P didnt accept the Investigators findings and conclusions. He said:
Although I believe [AWP] has acted unprofessionally, my issue is not with [it] This whole 
matter could have been sorted as soon as it was raised with St James Place, if they had 
been more efficient. It is the length of time and unknowing whatwas happening to my 
pension, my advice and the lack of being able to speak to an advisor that has caused me a 
great deal of stress and worry, all of which I do not believe £200 is adequate to cover my 
trauma and the very poor service and inaction from St James place.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ps case has been passed to 
me to review afresh and to provide a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by SJP for 
Mr P. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Ive reviewed the correspondence on file between Mr P and CAWM and AWP during the 
period under review.
On 16 August 2021 Mr P wrote to CAWM in the following terms:
Yes originally I was going to give it 12 months as you say, however I also expected you to 
contact me in between, my pension has lost money 3 times in the [past] 9 months  that [is] 
a 30% loss rate!
So yes, I would like to cancel our arrangement as of today. Please confirm in writing that I 
am no longer paying the 0.5% advice charge and then there will be no need to zoom.
So, Mr P had instructed the end of his engagement with CAWM. At this point he knew his 
retirement account didnt have adviser oversight. But its also clear he was in advanced 
discussion with AWP to take on that role. For example, on 14 September 2021 it wrote to Mr 
P and said:
Quick update for your following our quick chat yesterday..everything is moving forward in 
respect to the transfer of the servicing rights from Coopers Associates to Avocet over the 
course of the next week. As Ive mentioned I have written everything up for the £80k 
investment. As discussed I recommend that it goes into a Unit Trust investment that we then 
use to fund you ISAs over the coming years
I agree with Mr P when he says this shows it was planned for his servicing arrangement to 
move across to AWP. But it seems the details were still being worked through, and there 
appears to have been a link between this and any decision he was to make on his 
prospective investment.Following an email from Mr P to AWP on 21 September 2021 which appeared to suggest 
hed be making alternative arrangements for his investment, AWP responded in the following 
terms:
[Mr P - your pension will stay with Coopers. As I said to you it would require a financial 
commitment from me to acquire that from Coopers and would take more time than you're 
prepared to wait. It's maybe a good thing that I didn't commit to buying you as a client as our 
timelines are obviously not compatible. Please also remember you won't have any advice on 
your pension because you've turned the ongoing advice off.
Obviously I've spent significant time writing up the advice that we discussed before, and of 
course you've also spoken to [a colleague] who has given you advice from a mortgage 
perspective, so naturally I'm disappointed that you don't want to proceed as clearly there has 
been an investment in time from our side.
That said - if things change then please do come and see us again and I'd be happy to 
assist.
I note in one of his conversations with this Service, Mr P referred to a process of negotiation 
between him and AWP. And it appears the possibility of working together was back on 
shortly after the exchanges on 21 September 2021, because we know AWP made a 
recommendation to Mr P on 4 October 2021 for him to invest £80,000 of his savings in an 
SJP Unit Trust, in line with his medium attitude to risk. But he subsequently informed it he 
wouldnt be proceeding because of a change in his circumstances.
I think these exchanges show Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware that AWP wasnt 
taking on the role of advising him about his pension. And that he still wasnt paying for any 
advice in relation to it.
Since there was no contract or provision for payment in place for ongoing advice services to 
Mr P in respect of his retirement funds, it follows there wasnt a firm with responsibility for 
providing such. And that any review of performance, his circumstances, objectives and 
attitude to risk wouldnt happen.
When Mr P approached AWP with an enquiry about the performance of his pension in 
February 2022 and was informed that it wasnt his adviser, I agree that it took SJP to long to 
resolve matters. But I also think its more likely than not this didnt cause him financial 
detriment. I say this because his funds remained invested in line with his attitude to risk. And 
there was active oversight of the fund managers responsible for his pot.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ps I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of SJPs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
SJP arranged a new adviser for Mr P who he met with in July 2022. It apologised for the 
delay in seeking a new adviser and resolving the issue of him not being able to receive 
advice. And it offered him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. Ive 
concluded this is reasonable redress in the circumstances of this case.If it hasnt done so already, St Jamess Place Wealth Management should now pay Mr P the 
£200 it offered him for the distress and inconvenience it was responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman