DRN-3318281
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Lowell Portfolio I Ltd getting a county court judgement (CCJ) 
against him, saying that they didnt give him sufficient notification beforehand.
What happened
This complaint is about a defaulted credit card account which was sold to Lowell in January 
2016.
Lowell ran a trace through a credit reference agency, to make sure they had the most up-to-
date address for Mr A. Over the course of 2016, they wrote to Mr A at the most current 
address they had. As the months went on, Lowell didnt receive any response or payments. 
Lowell sent Mr A various letters and notifications, such as a warning they intended to take 
legal action, notification that theyd passed things to their solicitors, a letter of claim, a notice 
of a pending CCJ, and so on.
In October 2016, Lowell were granted a CCJ against Mr A by the county court.
In 2021, Mr A complained about the CCJ, its impact, and the lack of notification.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that we didnt have the power to overturn CCJs, and we couldnt look into whether 
Lowell were right to get one or not. They explained we could look into whether Lowell had 
given Mr A sufficient notification, but they found that Lowell had.
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Im not able to consider whether Lowell were right to get the 
CCJ or not, nor what impact the CCJ had on Mr A. And I cant overturn the CCJ, either. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts, and we cannot 
overrule what a court says. We also generally cannot make decisions about issues that have 
already been dealt with in court. And we can only look at complaints about regulated 
activities  but getting or enforcing court judgements are not regulated activities.
I understand Mr A is going to get in touch with the county court directly to try to deal with the 
CCJ, and that seems like the best place for him to do that.
I can consider whether Lowell properly notified Mr A before the CCJ. But while I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I think Lowell did take the proper steps to let him 
know what was going on.
I can see that Lowell wrote to Mr A a number of times as the months went on. And they sent 
him the proper notifications  letting him know that theyd bought the debt, that they might 
take legal action, that theyd passed things to their solicitors, that they were submitting a 
claim, and so on.
Further, by tracing Mr A through a credit reference agency, Lowell took reasonable steps to 
make sure they were writing to the correct address.
So I think Lowell took sufficient steps to let Mr A know what was going on.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman