DRN-3004215
The complaint
Mr N complains Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly increased the cost of his pet insurance 
policy, and that they took payment for the premiums without his authorisation.
What happened
The underwriter of Mr Ns previous pet insurance policy was changed to Pinnacle in 2020. 
When the underwriter changed, the cost of his premiums increased when the policy was 
renewed in May 2020.
When Mr N noticed payment for a higher premium had been taken from his bank account, 
he complained to Pinnacle. He said he felt the significant increase in his premiums was 
unfair and that he wasnt told about it. He also said he wasnt told the underwriter would be 
changing and was unhappy payment for the higher premium was taken without his consent.
Pinnacle investigated Mr Ns concerns and issued their final response on 26 June 2020. 
They explained a renewal letter was sent to Mr N at the end of March 2020, and this letter 
explained the underwriter would be changing and the new quote for his premiums. 
Pinnacles final response also explained the factors they considered when calculating the 
premium for the May 2020 renewal. Pinnacle were satisfied theyd notified Mr N of the 
changes ahead of the renewal date, and that the premiums had been calculated fairly, so 
they didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. As Mr N remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to 
our service.
After reviewing Mr Ns complaint, our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she was satisfied Pinnacle had sent Mr N a renewal letter that explained the changes in 
underwriter and the quote for the new premium. Our investigator also felt Pinnacle hadnt 
done anything wrong by taking payment for the premium because Mr Ns policy was one that 
renewed automatically.
Mr N disagreed with our investigator. He maintained that he hadnt received the renewal 
letter in March 2020, and felt it was unfair to conclude otherwise when there wasnt clear 
proof it had been sent to - or received by him. Mr N also said it wasnt fair for Pinnacle to 
take payment for the premiums when they hadnt told him about the significant increase.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to changer her opinion, so Mr N asked for his case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I know this isnt the 
answer he hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Before I set out my findings, I wanted to make it clear that Ive reviewed and acknowledged 
the points and information Mr N has sent us  including what hes said about relying on 
unsubstantiated evidence. When investigating complaints, we consider everything provided 
to us, that includes documents and testimony from all relevant parties. Unless there is 
evidence to suggest otherwise, we accept the information and testimony sent to us is 
truthful. And given our impartial role, that approach applies to both consumers and financial 
businesses. We then will weigh up that evidence to determine what is more likely to have 
happened and use it to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. While Im 
not upholding Mr Ns complaint, I want to make it clear that isnt because I consider he hasnt 
told us the truth.
Did Pinnacle treat Mr N unfairly when they increased the premiums for his pet policy?
Its for an insurer, like Pinnacle, to decide how much theyll charge for the cover they 
provide. Our service doesnt have the power to tell Pinnacle how much they should charge 
their policyholders, so I wont be making a finding on whether Mr Ns May 2020 premiums 
were too high. All that I can consider is whether Mr N was treated differently to other 
policyholders at that time.
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably cover the likely claims that 
may arise from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term viability 
of the insurer. The calculation is generally based on the probability of an insured event 
occurring, alongside the likely financial loss resulting from the claim. 
When calculating premiums, all insurers take several factors into consideration. A common 
factor for pet policies is the age of the pet, and the price of the premiums will normally 
increase as the pet gets older. Thats because most insurers consider therell be a higher 
risk of needing to claim. There are other factors that are also taken into consideration, such 
as increased vet costs, changes in insurance premium tax and other changes in 
underwriting. And its these factors combined that determine the price of the premium.
When quoting for Mr Ns renewal, Pinnacle assessed the risk it was offering to provide cover 
for, and as mentioned above, this is so they could ensure they could meet successful claims 
made by their customers in the future. Given what Ive explained, I dont consider they were 
unreasonable for doing so.
Ive seen the factors Pinnacle considered, and they are same ones detailed in the final 
response letter sent to Mr N. Ive also seen a breakdown of the premium attached to them. 
Not only were the factors in line with what Id expect a pet insurer to consider, Ive also not 
seen anything to suggest these factors were applied unfairly to Mr N or his circumstances. 
Its for this reason I cant agree Pinnacle acted unreasonably when they increased Mr Ns 
premiums.
Did Pinnacle tell Mr N about the changes to his policy 
Mr N complains he wasnt told about the change in underwriter or the amount by which his 
premiums would increase before the policy renewed in May 2020. Pinnacle say the changes 
were set out in the renewal documents sent to Mr N at the end of March 2020. However, 
Mr N says he didnt receive them.Mr Ns testimony has been consistent throughout, so I have no reason to disbelieve him 
when he says he didnt receive his renewal documents. Because of this, I also dont 
disbelieve him when he says he only became aware of the changes to his policy after he 
spotted higher premiums had been taken from his account; and raising a complaint with 
Pinnacle.
While Im satisfied Mr N didnt receive the relevant documents at the end of March 2020, that 
isnt enough for me to say Pinnacle did something wrong when attempting to notify Mr N of 
the changes. I say this because Ive seen a screenshot of Pinnacles system notes from that 
time, and they show renewal documents were sent to Mr N at the end of March 2020. Ive 
also seen a copy of the renewal letter, and this is addressed correctly  with the same 
address we hold for Mr N. This evidence persuades me Pinnacle took steps to send Mr N 
the information he needed, at the time they said they did.
The renewal documents were sent by post. As such, Pinnacle were relying on the postal 
service to ensure they were delivered, and I dont think thats unreasonable. Given the 
evidence from Pinnacles systems and Mr Ns testimony, its possible there was a problem 
with the post getting to Mr N. But it the same way I cant hold Mr N at fault for not receiving 
the letter, I cant hold Pinnacle at fault for it not reaching Mr N. Pinnacle addressed the letter 
correctly, and sent it more than a month before the policy was due to renew, so its 
unfortunate that a situation out of their control resulted in Mr N not receiving the renewal 
letter.
Pinnacle say they didnt receive any returned post. So, until Mr N complained, they wouldnt 
have been aware he hadnt received his renewal documents. Without having that 
knowledge, Pinnacle couldnt take steps to send them again.
Mr N says Pinnacle could have sent the renewal documents by email. I accept email is 
option some businesses use when corresponding with their customers, but Pinnacle wasnt 
obligated to do so, and Ive not seen anything that suggest Mr N was only meant to receive 
correspondence about his policy by email. For that reason, that point doesnt persuade me 
that Pinnacle should have done more - or done things differently when sending the renewal 
documents.
Given the above, Im satisfied Pinnacle made a reasonable attempt to tell Mr N about the 
changes to his policy. But due to issues outside of their control, this information wasnt 
received. Because of that, I dont agree Pinnacle need to do anything to put things right 
regarding this aspect of Mr Ns complaint.
Were Pinnacle allowed to take payment for the premiums on renewal? 
Mr Ns policy was one that automatically renewed each year. This means, his premiums 
would automatically be collected by a previously agreed payment method on renewal, unless 
the policy was cancelled.
The renewal letter confirmed the policy would renew automatically, and that payment would 
be taken by direct debit. I appreciate Mr N didnt receive the renewal letter in March 2020, so 
he wouldnt have known how much would have been taken from his account on renewal. But 
as mentioned above, I dont consider Pinnacle are at fault for that. However, Ive also not 
seen anything that suggests Mr N wasnt aware of how his policy renewed each year.
The contents of the renewal letter and the fact a payment was taken, persuades me that its 
more likely than not Mr N had previously agreed to pay for his policy in this way. Because of 
this, I cant agree Pinnacle needed to contact Mr N for his authorisation before taking 
payment for his policy that renewed in May 2020.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr N hope for, but I dont consider Pinnacle need to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint about Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman