DRN-3801711
The complaint
Mr O complains that Embark Investment Services Limited (Embark) failed to transfer his 
pension and ISA savings to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Embark needed to do in 
order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of my provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
Mr O held pension savings in a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) and further 
savings in an ISA. The administration of the SIPP and ISA was migrated to Embark 
in January 2021, but Embark is responsible for the matters that form this complaint. 
For ease I will simply refer to Embark as the SIPP and ISA administrator throughout 
this decision.
Mr O asked Embark to transfer his SIPP to a new provider in December 2020. And 
he made a similar request in relation to his ISA in January 2021. Mr O wanted, as far 
as possible, for his pension and ISA investments to be transferred in-specie. But he 
also held some cash balances as part of each portfolio.
Embark says it took a month before it sent a valuation of Mr Os SIPP investments to 
the new provider. The transfer was accepted by the new provider around a week 
later. But a further month elapsed before most of Mr Os SIPP investments were 
transferred. However one transfer remained outstanding until May 2021. So the final 
part of the transfer  the transfer of the cash balance  didnt complete until 
June 2021.
The transfer of Mr Os ISA was initially delayed since Embark had failed to upload 
details of the amounts Mr O had contributed to his ISA on tax year 2020/2021. It took 
around a month for that information to be updated. There were then further delays 
between Embark and the new provider in agreeing the investments to be transferred. 
Ultimately the cash balance of Mr Os ISA wasnt transferred until August 2021.
When Embark first looked at Mr Os complaint it accepted that both transfers had 
taken too long. It offered Mr O £500 for the inconvenience hed been caused and 
refunded the fees that had been applied to the SIPP and ISA between 
24 December 2020 and 2 June 2021. And Embark said that it would be willing to 
consider a claim for any missed investment opportunities if Mr O provided some 
evidence. Mr O didnt accept that offer and asked us to continue looking at his 
complaint.
There were two regulated firms involved in Mr Os transfers  Embark and the new 
provider. Based on the evidence I have seen I dont think it would be unreasonable to 
conclude that both firms have contributed, admittedly to different extents, to the 
delays Mr O suffered. But this complaint is only in relation to the actions of Embark. 
So I will limit my findings solely to the part played by that firm.
Embark has accepted that Mr Os transfers took too long, and offered him some 
compensation. So the matter that falls to me in this decision is to decide what would 
be reasonable to ask Embark to do, in order to compensate Mr O for any losses hes 
incurred, and the inconvenience hes been caused.
But in saying that I think it is important that I reflect on the overall time the transfers 
took, and compare that with what I think might be generally reasonable for transfers 
of this nature. As the length of that delay does have an influence on the impact on 
Mr O.
Mr Os transfers werent the most straightforward that Embark might be asked to 
complete  that would have involved a transfer of just cash. But, in simple terms, to 
complete this transfer, Embark only needed to request the re-registration of the 
investment holdings, and transfer the cash balances Mr O held.
I set out some of the timeline of the transfers earlier on in this decision. There were 
some lengthy delays whilst the processes were awaiting action by Embark, 
particularly in relation to the SIPP transfer. Whilst I accept that Embark wasnt 
responsible for all of the delays, I dont think the overall time taken to complete the 
transfers was acceptable.
In this decision I need to consider whether any delays caused a direct financial loss 
to Mr O. Like our investigator, I have noted that whilst the in-specie transfers were 
taking place Mr Os pension and ISA savings in those assets remained invested. So 
there wasnt any time that he was out of the market. I have considered that during the 
time of the transfer Mr O was effectively prevented from selling those assets, and 
purchasing new investments, but for the reasons I will now go on to explain, I cannot 
easily determine whether any financial loss might have been caused.
I think the aspect that should give me most concern is the period of time that Mr O 
held relatively large cash balances in his SIPP and, to a much lesser extent, in his 
ISA. The transfer requests were made in December 2020 and January 2021 
respectively, but the cash balances didnt reach the new provider until June and 
August 2021. I accept that some of those delays werent due to Embark. And that it is 
generally accepted practice to transfer the in-specie investments before any cash 
balances. But even so, I think the transfers were completed far later than they should 
have been.
Ive thought about what might have been a reasonable timescale for each transfer. 
And I support the findings that were set out by our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. In reaching these conclusions I have only looked at the delays caused by 
Embark, and stripped them from the overall timeline.
I think that it would have been reasonable to expect the transfer of the cash balance 
in the SIPP to have concluded some seven weeks after the request was received 
(allowing within that a short delay to reflect the Christmas and New Year period). And 
I think that a total delay of 13 weeks was caused to the ISA transfer, comprising the 
additional time caused by needing to recheck Mr Os ISA contributions and some 
errors in identifying one of the assets he held.
So for those lengths of time Mr O held cash in his SIPP and ISA accounts that he 
might have invested had it been transferred in a timelier manner.But it is difficult for me to say, with any certainty, whether, or how, Mr O would have 
invested those cash balances. Mr O has provided us with copies of what appear to 
be emails providing some investment tips that he received, and says he would have 
relied on, during the periods of the delay. But those emails only provide suggestions 
of assets that could be held, sold, or purchased. They dont provide any indications of 
the proportionate holdings of each of the assets. And a further complication is that 
the statements Mr O has provided for his SIPP post the transfer show that he held 
variable, and often large, cash balances as part of his investment holdings. So I must 
have some concerns about whether I can be satisfied that Mr O would have invested 
all the transferred cash immediately it had been received.
Im not persuaded that I should ask Embark to compensate Mr O for any investment 
losses on the basis of the information he has sent to us. But that doesnt mean 
I would think it fair that Embark should provide no compensation at all.
I appreciate that both Embark and Mr O are unlikely to find that my compensation 
proposals match what they think is fair and reasonable. But I think they offer a 
pragmatic solution to ensure that both some compensation is paid to reflect the 
possible investment losses, whilst also ensuring that the compensation doesnt 
benefit from hypothetical investments that might be constructed with a degree of 
hindsight. And that the proposals take into account what I think is a very real 
possibility that Mr O might not have invested all of the cash balances immediately on 
transfer.
 
So I currently intend to direct Embark to provide compensation to Mr O based on half 
the value of the cash balances that were transferred. And given the lack of objective 
evidence to show how Mr O would have invested the cash balances I think the use of 
a benchmark is appropriate. The use of a benchmark will reflect general market 
conditions at that time, whilst removing the likelihood of hindsight being used to 
generate artificial returns.
Embark has already accepted our investigators assessment that a payment of £750 
would be reasonable for the inconvenience the delays caused to Mr O. I think a 
payment of that amount would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Despite our investigator extending the deadline for responses Mr O 
hasnt provided us with anything further. Embark has said that it accepts my provisional 
findings and has provided details of the compensation it has calculated is due to Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Embark has accepted my provisional findings, and Mr O hasnt provided me with 
any additional comments, I see no reason to alter the conclusions that I reached in my 
earlier provisional decision.
So I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Embark to put things right as set out in my 
provisional decision, and repeated below for clarity.
Putting things rightMy aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if his cash balances had been transferred sooner. As Ive set out in my provisional 
decision I consider reasonable dates for the transfers to be completed to be 
26 January 2021 for the SIPP and 18 May 2021 for the ISA.
As Ive explained, its not possible to say precisely what Mr O would have done, but Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances and 
objectives at that time.
What must Embark do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, I direct Embark to:
Assess what would have been the investment returns on half of Mr O's transferred 
cash balances using the benchmark shown below.
Embark should add interest if necessary as set out below.
Embark should pay the investment return calculated into Mr O's pension plan and 
ISA to increase their value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan or ISA if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If Embark is unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan or ISA, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But, in relation to the SIPP only, had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr O would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr O £750 for the inconvenience the delays caused to him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Embark should give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestHalf 
transferred 
cashStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexExpected 
transfer 
dates 
shown 
aboveDate of 
actual 
completion 
of transfer8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this benchmark because:
Mr O wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given what I know of Mr O's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Embark Investment Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman