DRN-2499623
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about advice given by LWH Independent Financial Services (LWH) in 
connection with the setting up of a stakeholder pension (SHP) in 2001. LWH later became 
part of Sesame Ltd. 
What happened
At the time of advice in September 2001 Mr Ls circumstances were as follows:
52 years old
Married with no other dependents
Self employed as a taxi driver
Planned on retiring at 65
Had a balanced attitude to risk
No occupational pension available but he had a personal pension valued at 
£48,413.57
LWHs suitability letter records that Mr Ls objectives were to increase the death benefits 
payable to his wife and to increase his pension provision. LWH advised Mr L to set up a 
SHP with Norwich Union (now Aviva), transfer the full balance of his existing personal 
pension to this new plan and make monthly contributions of £138.28. The contributions 
were to be increased on the annual anniversary of the policy. The fund recommended was 
the Norwich Union Balanced Managed Fund. The annual charge for the plan was 1%. The 
new SHP started on 25 September 2001. Mr L made regular contributions up to March 
2012 when his contributions ceased. 
Mr L, through his representative, complained to Sesame on 30 January 2020. The main 
points were:
Mr L had limited experience or knowledge of pensions or investments and had 
accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
The adviser was bound by the suitability rule (F29.5) of the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA) and also had common law duties to act with reasonable skill and 
cares and to disclose all risks and alternatives to allow informed consent  as 
confirmed in the 2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health 
Board. 
Investment costs are the most important factor in fund returns and the most reliable 
predictor of future returns  lower costs mean higher returns. Even small 
unnecessary costs can compound into significant longer term financial detriment. 
Theres no reliable way to select in advance, high cost funds that will deliver better 
returns than lower cost alternatives. Only a small proportion of fund managers can 
deliver sufficient outperformance to make up for the extra costs and such managers 
cant reliably be identified in advance. 
The client must be informed of all the costs they will be paying. Including any hidden 
fund costs. If possible, costs should be avoided altogether (particularly if the 
alternative comes with guarantees and/or inflation protection) or at least kept to a 
minimum.
All of Mr Ls contributions had been invested in a single, complex and high cost 
managed fund. There was a lack of diversification and an unnecessary concentration 
of risk and unnecessary costs. There were six funds available, including a low cost 
index tracker fund. Contributions shouldve been spread across different funds to 
reduce risk. 
Mr L had been exposed to unnecessary fund costs. He wasnt properly informed of 
the inherent risks in the product recommended; all the costs; or all the available 
alternatives, including (but not limited to) low costs such as index funds. The returns 
hed received had been poor compared to a portfolio of low cost index funds with an 
appropriate asset allocation. That must be due to excessive costs and complexity or 
poor management or a combination of those.  
Sesame issued a final response letter on 18 February 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said the SHP had been suitable for Mr L. It was a low charging pension and the Balanced 
Managed Fund was sufficiently diversified to meet Mr Ls requirements. SHPs are a low cost 
effective method of saving for retirement and were introduced to meet several conditions set 
out in legislation, including a cap on charges, low minimum contributions, and flexibility to 
stop and start contributions. The charges were less than 1% and fund rebates are added 
back into the plan depending on fund size. The documentation issued to Mr L told him about 
the charges. Mr L had a balanced attitude to investment risk. He was 53 at the time and his 
intended retirement age was 65. A balanced approach was suitable. The Balanced Managed 
Fund has a spread of asset allocation. Theres a mixture of investments in the Fund, 
including other managed funds, which spreads the risk even more. It was sufficiently 
diversified. 
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators considered it but he didnt think it 
should be upheld. In summary he said the Fund that had been recommended (now called 
the Aviva Man Balanced Managed Fund) had a risk rating of four out of ten and is described 
as having medium volatility. It was rated as medium risk by other independent fund 
information websites. It was appropriate for Mr Ls balanced attitude to risk. The asset 
allocation (including 44.9% in other managed funds; 20.8% UK equities and 11.2% 
international equities) showed it was diverse, with the investment in other managed funds 
adding further diversification. Mr Ls previous pension was held in a managed fund which 
reinforced that this type of fund was suitable for him. 
About costs, the investigator said a SHP was a low cost arrangement. The annual charge 
was capped at 1%. And the fund rebates reduced that. The costs and risks had been 
disclosed to Mr L in the recommendation letter. And the plan certificate issued to him set out 
the charge clearly. Illustrations provided to Mr L had also taken into account the effect of 
deductions, including charges. As to performance, over the last five years, returns had been 
positive. Mr L had stopped contributing after March 2012 which wouldve impacted on fund 
growth. 
In response, Mr Ls representative said the issue of investing all of the contributions in a 
single managed fund, exposing Mr L to the unnecessary risk of a poor investment return, 
hadnt been considered. The contributions shouldve been invested in a sensibly diversified 
portfolio of low cost funds with an overall asset allocation matching Mr Ls attitude to risk  
that wouldve been good industry practice. 
The investigator agreed that diversification was important and good industry practice. It 
allowed money to be spread across different types of investments which, ideally, arent too 
closely correlated to one another and which reduces the level of risk. The investigator said 
hed reviewed the Balanced Managed Fund and found it to be a fund of funds. He set out how the Fund was made up: 44.9% in other managed funds; 20.8% in UK equities, 11.2% 
international equities, 10.4% alternative trading strategies, 7.1% UK corporate bonds, 4.6% 
international bonds, 0.3% property and 2.6% other. It was a diversified array of sectors and 
products ranging from UK and international equities, bonds, property, alternative 
investments and other managed funds. Although the pension was held in one managed 
fund, it was diversified. And the recent performance showed reasonably sustained growth 
had been experienced. 
Mr Ls representative asked for the source of the investigators information, saying it didnt 
match what the representative had. The investigator supplied a copy of the fund fact sheet. 
Mr Ls representative maintained that Mr L had been exposed to excessive and unnecessary 
costs, complexity and risks. Not only did the fund have an extra and unnecessary layer of 
costs, 10.4% of its holdings were invested in alternative trading strategies as well as 
derivatives and very low credit quality bonds. 
An ombudsmans decision was requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and with the reasons he 
gave as to why he wasnt upholding the compliant. I dont have too much to add. 
The advice was given in September 2001. The Financial Services Ombudsman gained its 
powers on 1 December 2001. So I agree the advice was subject to the PIAs rules. I also 
agree that the adviser had duties under the common law. But I think the advisers obligations 
under the PIA rules encompassed any common law duties and imposed a higher standard. 
So Ive concentrated on whether what LWH recommended was suitable for Mr L. His 
representative has also mentioned a court case. But I dont think that case, decided many 
years after the advice was given, is directly relevant.
Mr L sought advice in 2001 as he wanted to review his existing personal pension plan. 
Amongst other things he felt the charging structure was higher than some other providers. 
He was invested in with profits, blue chip and balanced managed funds. The adviser 
recommended that Mr L transfer to a SHP which had a lower charging structure. 
Theres no complaint about the advice to transfer Mr Ls existing personal pension 
arrangement. And no complaint about the suitability of the SHP itself. The complaint centres 
on the fact that all of Mr Ls contributions (and the transfer value paid by his previous 
pension arrangement) were invested in a single fund, the Balanced Managed Fund. The 
complaint is about the suitability of that Fund, including whether the charges made it 
unsuitable for Mr L. 
In looking at if the Balanced Managed Fund was suitable for Mr L and on the basis that all of 
his contributions were invested in Fund, Ive considered first Mr Ls attitude to risk. The 
suitability report dated 5 September 2001 confirmed hed indicated that his attitude to risk 
was balanced. I think that fitted with his overall situation. Taking into account his age, time to 
retirement, his financial position and his overall circumstances, I dont think his position was 
that he was unable to take any risk with his pension provision. A balanced approach wasnt 
inappropriate. And it was consistent with the investment approach hed taken with his 
previous pension provider.At the time the SHP offered a fairly limited fund selection. Some six funds were available: 
With profit; Balanced Managed; Sustainable Future Managed; UK Index Tracking; 
Retirement Protection; Deposit. I think, on the face of it, the Balanced Managed Fund 
matched Mr Ls balanced attitude to risk. A managed fund would generally be regarded as 
appropriate for a medium or balanced risk investor. 
Mr Ls representative suggests the UK Index Tracking Fund wouldve been a better option 
for Mr L. But the fact that another adviser may have recommended something different 
doesnt mean the recommendation  that Mr L invest all his contributions in the Balanced 
Managed Fund  was unsuitable. There might be more than one fund that was suitable for 
Mr L. And opinion may have differed as to what fund should be selected. The issue is 
whether the fund chosen, the Balanced Managed Fund, was suitable for Mr L. If the Fund 
was suitable at the time of the advice, then any investment loss (in terms of another fund 
having performed better) isnt as a result of an unsuitable recommendation. 
Taking a closer look at the Balanced Managed Fund, we dont know exactly how it was 
made up at the time Mr Ls SHP was set up. The investigator has shared a more up to date 
(February 2020) fund fact sheet which sets out the asset allocation. Mr Ls representative 
has pointed to the alternative trading strategies which make up 10.4% of the funds holdings. 
While we dont know exactly what that comprises and how those strategies operate, they 
typically dont correlate to the stock market and so can add diversification and mitigate 
volatility. I dont think, looking at the overall make up of the Fund, that a holding of about 
10% is out of line with what Id expect to see. Nor, given the very small percentages 
involved, is the credit quality of some of the fixed interest holding a concern. But in any 
event, I think a 2020 fund sheet is probably of limited value, given that Mr Ls investment 
was first made some twenty years earlier. 
Ive looked at what information was available about the Balanced Managed Fund at the time 
Mr Ls SHP was set up. Given the time thats elapsed, I dont think everything will have 
survived. And I think information available today about fund selection and individual funds 
would probably be more detailed. But Im not judging things looking at todays standards. 
And I have to reach a decision based on such information as is available. 
I understand that the Balanced Managed Fund aimed to provide a good return, through a 
combination of capital growth and investment income. It invested in a wide range of assets 
to spread the investment risk. The assets held included company shares (UK and 
international), property, bonds and deposits. I think that indicates that it was diversified and 
risk was spread over different asset classes and investment sectors. 
Mr Ls representative says choosing just one fund meant there was a lack of diversification. I 
agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded as 
good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading 
money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one holding 
performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better and so the 
risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that investing in a single fund 
may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself.
I also accept that diversification could have been achieved by investing over a range of 
funds. But I think that would have been complicated and was unnecessary when the 
managed fund offered diversification, albeit within a single fund. I dont think the Balanced 
Managed Fund was, technically, a fund of funds. But I understand the point that the 
investigator was making  that the Fund invested in other managed funds which meant it 
was diversified in itself. From what Ive seen I think the Balanced Managed Fund was 
sufficiently diverse. As Ive said, another adviser might have recommended something different. But that doesnt mean the advice Mr H was given was unsuitable. I think the 
Balanced Managed Fund was suitable for him. 
I dont think it was too complex for an investor such as Mr L to understand. And, as Ive gone 
on to say below, the SHP was a simplified arrangement and the charges were 
straightforward  just an annual charge with no bid/offer spread or policy charges. 
Mr Ls representative has stressed the impact of charges. But Mr L had a SHP. They were 
introduced in April 2001. Charges are capped at a maximum amount. At the time charges 
were limited to an annual amount of no more than 1% of the fund value with no charges for 
joining or leaving or for changing or stopping contributions. From 2005 the annual charge 
was allowed to be 1.5% for the first ten years and 1% thereafter. So much of whats been 
said about managed funds incurring higher charges which arent off set by better 
performance arent relevant, given that the charges were restricted as Ive set out. 
I also think the charges were clearly set out more than once. The recommendation letter said 
the maximum charge that could be levied was 1% of the fund value with no bid/offer spread 
or policy charges. And the plan certificate Mr L was given was the SHP had been set up said 
there was an annual fund charge (shown as 1%) to manage the investments and meet other 
expenses, deducted monthly by cancellation of units. The illustrations Mr L was given 
included the effect of future charges. 
All in all, I dont think the Balanced Managed Fund was unsuitable for Mr L. I think it matched 
Mr Ls attitude to risk. It was sufficiently diverse and the charges werent excessive. I dont 
think the adviser acted in breach of his regulatory or legal obligations in recommending the 
Balanced Managed Fund for Mr Ls contributions. 
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman