DRN-3157741
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
raised a section 75 claim against his credit card account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator about the service 
Nationwide provided, for these reasons:
Mr Ms section 75 claim was passed to the appropriate team at Nationwide the day 
after hed called to raise it. So that side of the service seems reasonable.
But  as Nationwide accept  it would have been better to update Mr M when that 
happened, so he would know when he could next expect to hear something.
Putting things right
I also agree with the investigator about what needs to be done to put this matter right, for the 
following reasons: 
In a call on 16 December, Mr M was told his claim was with the section 75 team. And 
the section 75 team then spoke to Mr M about two weeks after that. So that looks to 
have put right the lack of an update initially.
Nationwides offer of £75 then looks right to acknowledge any lingering worries Mr M 
had for the period he was without an update. 
It reflects that the time without an update was relatively short. And that the money at 
stake in the section 75 claim was relatively small, and unrelated to more critical living 
expenses, such as food or housing costs.
So I conclude that overall, the issues of this specific complaint will be settled by Nationwides 
£75 offer, once its paid to Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman