DRN-3774142
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 for compensation in relation to his purchase of an air quality 
monitor.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr P bought an Awair Element air quality monitor and paid for it with his 
Nationwide credit card. It was important to him that Awair was then in a partnership with a 
third party, PlanetWatch, and that a feature of the product he was buying was that it could 
send data to PlanetWatch (for which he would be paid in a cryptocurrency). He has pointed 
out that as a result of this feature being advertised, Awair was able to double the price of the 
monitor due to the increased demand for it.
Unfortunately in April 2022 Awair announced that it would no longer provide Awair Element 
data to PlanetWatch. As a result, Mr P felt that the device was no longer useful to him and 
no longer fit for the purpose for which he had bought it. Furthermore, he felt taken advantage 
of, as he had paid more than the product had originally been worth, the price having been 
increased because of a service which was no longer going to be provided. He asked 
Nationwide for a refund of the whole price, £284. (As it was too late to raise a chargeback, 
this was treated as a claim under section 75.)
Nationwide did not agree to pay the refund. It said that the air quality monitor still worked, in 
that it still carried out the function for which it had originally been manufactured. Awair had 
not promised that its partnership with PlanetWatch would last for any particular length of time 
or be indefinite, and so the withdrawal of the data sharing service was not a breach of 
contract, nor was its advertisement a misrepresentation. Being dissatisfied with that 
response, Mr P brought this complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered this complaint, but decided that Nationwide had been 
right. There had been no misrepresentation, because at the time Mr P bought the product, 
the advertisement that it would send data to PlanetWatch had been true. And there had 
been no breach of contract either, because there had been no contractual term about how 
long the partnership would last.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised that the connection with 
PlanetWatch had been a key feature of the monitor when he bought it, and without it the 
device was no longer useful to him (and to many others who had bought it).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes Nationwide jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
Awair. However, I do not think that either of these things occurred.
The marketing material stating that Awair was in a partnership with PlanetWatch and that the 
air quality monitor would send data to PlanetWatch was accurate at the time Mr P bought the 
device. The fact that a few months later the circumstances changed so that this ceased to be 
true does not retrospectively turn a true representation into a false one.
I can find no contractual term about how long that partnership would last, or about for how 
long that data sharing service would be provided for. Indeed, the only relevant term I can find 
in Awairs terms and conditions is paragraph f in section III, which says Awair reserves the 
right, at any time, to modify, suspend, or discontinue the Services or any part thereof with or 
without notice.1
I appreciate that the devices entire value to Mr P  including the reason why he was 
prepared to pay the increased price  depended on a service which was withdrawn after only 
a few months. I recognise that this must be frustrating for him. But the device is not broken; it 
still operates as originally designed. I cannot say that the withdrawal of the data sharing 
service amounts to a breach of contract.
For these reasons, I am unable to conclude that Nationwide mishandled Mr Ps claim or that 
it reached the wrong outcome.
I dont know whether Mr P is aware that PlanetWatch has tried to mitigate the problem by 
unilaterally substituting a similar service; he can read more about that on its website at 
https://www.planetwatch.io/awair-element-contingency-plan/ 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.getawair.com/legal/terms 