DRN-2576545
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) charged him £30 to make a transaction. He would 
like this refunded along with compensation for time and costs incurred 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view for the following reasons :-
Whilst I appreciate its frustrating Mr. W couldnt get through to the bank by phone, I 
have no evidence to support his claim that he was misinformed about the number of 
staff in the office or number of telephone lines. As I understand it the first phone call 
Mr. W made was before the branch opened. He did get a call back but by that time 
he was in the branch.
I have seen the CHAPS form Mr. W signed and can see he noted on the form he was 
disputing the £30 transaction. But I agree with TSBs point that didnt mean that TSB 
agreed to waive the fee. Ive seen TSBs terms and conditions and I think the £30 
was correctly charged.
Mr. W says had he been told there were other ways to make the payment he 
wouldnt have chosen a CHAPS payment. Mr. W had already made an internet 
banking (IB) payment that day. He couldnt make a further significant IB payment due 
to the limits on the amount that can be made this way. But he must have known he 
could have made the payment, for free, via IB the following day
It seems to me that if Mr. W wanted the payment to be made that day, he had to 
make a CHAPS payment. I think it unlikely TSB would have put the payment through 
had Mr. W made it clear that wasnt what he wanted if he was going to incur a fee.
As I dont feel TSB has done anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it to waive the 
£30 CHAPS fee or to compensate Mr. W for the inconvenience to him as he would 
like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman