DRN-3174586
Complaint
Mrs H says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly paid transactions from 
her account when she had insufficient funds which lead to her exceeding her overdraft by 
over £1,000.00.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns. He didnt think that First Direct had 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that First Direct paid direct debits and card transactions that had been 
authorised by Mrs H and that this led to her exceeding her overdraft limit by over £1,000.00. 
Mrs H says that allowing her to go over her overdraft limit by such an amount was unlawful. 
But the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs account permitted First Direct to treat Mrs Hs 
instructions as requests for an unarranged overdraft. 
I wouldnt expect a bank to routinely and regularly allow a customer to exceed their overdraft 
limit by such an amount. But looking through Mrs Hs statements it appears as though this is 
the first time this happened to this extent. Im also mindful that Mrs H wasnt charged any 
extra for accessing these funds on an unarranged basis and that she may well have been 
charged more in unpaid item and unpaid transaction fees, if the transactions hadnt been 
allowed. 
Finally, I also have to question why Mrs H was using her card and the account in question to 
authorise the transactions if she didnt want First Direct to make the payments in the first 
place. Bearing all of this in mind, I dont think it was wholly unreasonable to allow the 
transactions through in these circumstances.
So overall and having thought about everything as Mrs H authorised the transactions in 
question, the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs account permitted First Direct to treat this as a 
request for an unarranged overdraft and this wasnt a regular occurrence, I dont think that 
First Direct treated Mrs H unfairly by paying the transactions from her account. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint or directing First Direct to take any further action 
here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman