DRN-1614683
 
The complaint
Mr L and Miss H say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial Building 
Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr L and Miss H took out a PPI policy in 1987 at the same time as they applied for a 
mortgage. Mr L and Miss H say the sale took place in a meeting. I understand the policy 
gave both Mr L and Miss H cover against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid 
a monthly amount for the policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr L and Miss Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr L and Miss H 
disagree so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website 
and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr L and Miss H that the PPI was optional, and they had 
to agree to take it out. Mr L and Miss H say they were told they had to have PPI to get their 
mortgage.
I cant know what was said at the time of the sale or how the PPI was presented to         Mr L 
and Miss H. And their application documents arent available but thats not surprising, or 
unreasonable, given how long ago the sale was. So I have to reach a conclusion about what 
I think is most likely, based on the balance of the evidence. Santander has told us     Mr L 
and Miss H wouldve completed and signed a separate form for PPI to be set up on their 
account and they shown us a sample form that they say was in use at the time. This 
suggests they wouldve given their consent to the PPI. Santander has also given us a copy 
of the leaflet it says they wouldve been given at the time. Theres is nothing in this that I 
think could reasonably have led them to think it was mandatory. And a sample mortgage 
application Santander has sent us also shows mortgage applicants wouldve been asked if 
they wanted PPI; and if they didnt want it, this part of the mortgage application couldve 
been left blank.
Ive thought carefully about Mr L and Miss Hs comments, but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they remember. Overall, on balance, I 
think its more likely Santander made Mr L and Miss H aware they had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and they chose to take it at the time. From what Santander says, it recommended the PPI to Mr L and Miss H so it had to make 
sure it was right for them. Based on what I've seen of their circumstances at the time and the 
policy details Ive got, I think it was suitable. I say this because:
It seems they were eligible for the cover. And it doesnt look as if there was anything in the 
PPI that would make it difficult for them to claim  for example, the type of employment 
contract they had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So they 
wouldnt have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr L and Miss H say they were both entitled to over 12 months sick pay. This is an unusually 
good sick pay entitlement. But in this case the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work 
benefits and most likely for up to 24 months for each successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim they makde. Mr L and Miss H also say they had some savings. The 
PPI wouldve allowed them to use any savings to cover other living costs when they werent 
working  or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
Mr L and Miss H had taken out a long-term debt secured against their home. Given the 
serious consequences of missing mortgage payments I think the policy wouldve been useful 
for them if they were sick or lost their jobs.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to give Mr L and Miss H information about the PPI that was clear, fair 
and not misleading at the time of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should 
have. However, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better 
information wouldve changed their decision. I say this as Mr L and Miss H  dont appear to 
have been affected by any of main exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable.
I know Mr L and Miss H will be disappointed with my conclusion but I dont think theyve lost 
out because of any problems with the sale.
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold Mr L and Miss H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman