DRN-2329766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the fact that Covea Insurance plc declined to pay them 
anything in settlement of a fire claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L said they bought a property intending to demolish the house within the next 
five years and rebuild it. They said in the short term their plan was to redecorate it so that 
they could move in while refurbishing their current home before putting that property on the 
market as they needed the sale proceeds for the redevelopment. They said they expected to 
live in the property theyd bought for about two years. They obtained planning permission for 
the redevelopment. About a month later, the property was badly damaged by a fire. They 
made a claim to Covea. A few months later they had the house demolished.
Covea declined to settle the claim, saying Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered a loss as they were 
going to knock the house down in any event. It said the house could have been repaired and 
it wasnt necessary to demolish it.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Covea. They said theyd paid £26,000 to clear the site. Theyd 
also spent £42,000 on caravans to live in with their animals and £4,500 on storage. They 
claimed £12,500 for materials in the house that they were intending to re-use as part of the 
redevelopment and £8,500 for works to install the caravans. They thought Covea should pay 
£93,500 to cover these costs.
As Covea didnt change its decision, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Mr and Mrs Ls policy covers them for loss or damage caused by the fire. As its a policy of 
indemnity theyre only entitled to recover what theyve lost as a result of the fire.
The policy sets out how Covea will settle buildings claims. It says:
As long as the loss or damage is covered under your policy, we will decide whether to 
settle a claim by either rebuilding, repairing or replacing or by making a payment in respect 
of the damaged part of the buildings 
It goes on to say that:
If repair or rebuilding is not carried out, we will pay the amount by which the buildings has 
gone down in value as a result of the damage or the estimated cost of repair, whichever is 
lower.
Coveas loss adjuster estimated that the building could be repaired for about £250,000. 
Since no repair or rebuilding was carried out, Covea also looked at the amount by which 
Mr and Mrs Ls property had diminished in market value as a result of the fire. Both parties 
appear to accept that this would be less than the estimated repair costs.
Mr L thinks that there were other ways of settling the claim, including paying for site 
clearance, caravans and storage costs. However, I think that the diminution in market value 
(DMV) approach is more appropriate (assuming that, as expected, it results in a figure lower 
than the repair costs) since its the approach most likely to place Mr and Mrs L in the 
financial position theyd have been in were it not for the fire and its also in line with the 
wording of the policy. I recognise that its likely to be favourable to Covea but thats not a 
reason to say its unfair. 
Covea said that as Mr and Mrs L had always intended to demolish the buildings, the 
buildings had no value and so there was no loss. Although they had obtained planning 
permission for the demolition and redevelopment, I havent seen any evidence to persuade 
me that Mr and Mrs L were just about to proceed with the demolition before the fire 
happened. I dont think its fair to assume that. Mr and Mrs L might, for example, have 
changed their mind about the redevelopment or other circumstances might have intervened. 
In order to treat Mr and Mrs L fairly I think Covea should assess the DMV using independent 
professional evidence on the basis of A minus B (if A is greater than B), where: 
A is the value of the property immediately prior to the fire based on the condition the property 
was in at that time; and
B is the value of the property immediately after the fire.
Both valuations should be made by a local chartered surveyor and take into account the 
planning permission for demolition and redevelopment.
Covea should then settle the claim by paying the lower of the estimated repair costs and the 
DMV assessed as set out above. If any amount is payable, Covea should add interest at 8% 
simple per year on the amount due from the date of the claim to the date of payment.
Initially Covea accepted that the claim should be settled based on the basis of the lower of 
the repair costs and DMV. It didnt think that use of a single local surveyor would provide 
sufficient fairness and rigour to the process of assessing the DMV. It said it would prefer to 
instruct three local RICS surveyors and for the DMV to be assessed as the average of the 
three valuations obtained. Covea also said that if the settlement were to be less than the 
limit of our award, then it would abide by that. But if the settlement were to be more than our 
award limit, then it reserved the right to cap the settlement at that amount.
Later Covea disagreed with my provisional findings. It said in view of Mr and Mrs Ls 
intention to demolish and redevelop the property (as evidenced by plans lodged with the 
local authority), effectively they hadnt lost anything as a result of the fire.
It also said that the costs of £93,500 claimed by Mr and Mrs L (for site clearance, caravans 
etc) would have been incurred anyway as part of the planned redevelopment and werent 
incurred as a result of the fire.
Mr and Mrs L agreed with my provisional findings. However, they didnt think it was fair that 
Covea should cap the settlement.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy is an indemnity policy. That means an insured can only recover what 
they have lost as a result of the insured event (in this case, the fire). Thats a well-
established principle of insurance law which I fully accept. However, for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision I dont think its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs L 
didnt lose anything as a result of the fire. Just because theyd been granted planning 
permission before the fire to demolish and rebuild the property doesnt necessarily mean that 
theyd have carried out the redevelopment within a short time of planning permission being 
granted or that the property as it stood had no value to them. The planning permission was 
valid for several years, so they werent under any pressure to proceed immediately. As I 
believe Mr and Mrs L suffered a loss, the next question is how to assess what that loss might 
be.
I agree that some of the costs claimed by Mr and Mrs L werent directly caused by the fire. In 
my provisional decision I explained why I thought the claim should be settled on the basis of 
the lower of the DMV and the repair costs. Having carefully considered Coveas second 
response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
I agree that the average of three valuations would provide both parties with a greater 
assurance of a fair result. If the parties cant agree on the three surveyors, I think Covea 
should provide the names of five local chartered surveyors to Mr and Mrs L from whom they 
can then choose three. The surveyors are to be appointed on a joint basis with Covea and 
Mr and Mrs L named as clients but at Coveas expense. Covea should provide Mr and Mrs L 
with a list of the documents it sends to the surveyors so that they can provide any additional 
information they think is appropriate. 
In the case of this complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £350,000 plus interest. If I think that fair compensation is more than 
£350,000 plus interest, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as the lower of the estimated repair costs and the DMV assessed as set out 
above. My decision is that Covea Insurance plc should pay Mr and Mrs L the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £350,000 together with simple interest* 
on any amount payable from the date of their claim until the date of payment.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £350,000, I recommend that Covea Insurance plc pays Mr and Mrs L the balance 
together with simple interest* on the amount from the date of the claim to the date of 
payment. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Covea Insurance plc doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs L can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs L may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount due and from/to the 
dates stated. If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs L, it should tell them how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman