DRN-2425931
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) reduced the no 
claims discount on her car insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
Mrs T first got her car insurance with Advantage in March 2017. She had nine years no 
claims discount (NCD) at that point. 
Mrs T was involved in an accident in March 2017. Advantage defended the case, but it didnt 
reach court until March 2020. Mrs T wasnt found to be at fault. Shes unhappy at how long 
the process took as her NCD was reduced to four years while she was waiting for the court 
case. And therefore her premiums were bigger than they shouldve been.
Mrs T was also involved in an accident in October 2018. She reported the accident but didnt 
make a claim. After investigation, the accident was registered as 50:50 split liability. 
Mrs T is unhappy that Advantage didnt give her the chance to defend the 2018 accident in 
court. She doesnt understand why she could defend the 2017 accident, but not the 2018 
one. She feels the court wouldnt have found her at fault for the accident. Mrs T says that the 
legal cover she has on her policy shouldve allowed her to do this.
As Mrs T was held partly responsible for the 2018 accident, Advantage reduced her NCD to 
four years. And when it came to the 2019 renewal, they declined to insure her.
Mrs T complained to Advantage. They accepted that they couldve processed the 2017 claim 
more quickly. They also acknowledged that they incorrectly sent a letter about the 2017 
claim and that there was a lack of communication with Mrs T about the claim. They upheld 
her complaint and offered her £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused over their handling of the 2017 claim. 
Mrs T followed up with Advantage to clarify what their response meant for her NCD. She 
was told at this point that they needed to take the 2018 accident into account when 
determining what the NCD shouldve been. 
In the exchange between Mrs T and Advantage that followed, Advantage offered to refund 
the difference between the premium  based on four years NCD rather than nine  that 
shed paid in 2018. But they couldnt put Mrs Ts NCD back to nine years because of the 
2018 accident. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He felt Advantage had acted fairly for both 
the 2017 and 2018 accidents. He noted theyd refunded the 2018 premium overpayment and 
confirmed the NCD for Mrs Ts new insurers. He felt that their offer of £175 compensation 
was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. Mrs T didnt agree. So her complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
The 2017 accident
Mrs T is unhappy with how long it took for the 2017 claim to be settled. Thats 
understandable, given it was took three years to resolve. But I can see that Advantage did 
initially try to get the claim settled with the third-party. And when that couldnt be agreed, 
Advantage instructed solicitors to progress the defence of the claim. After that, they had no 
control over when the case reached court. 
I note that while court involvement can take a long time, Advantage accepted that their 
actions delayed things a bit. And offered £175 compensation. Considering what they got 
wrong, I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation.
The 2018 accident
Mrs T reported the accident in October 2018. She confirmed what had happened and that 
she didnt want to make a claim. 
Advantage asked Mrs T to give her version of events through an Accident Report Form. Mrs 
T says she didnt originally receive the form, so it was 5 months after the accident that she 
was first able to do this. Advantage said that without this, they would have to take the third-
partys word about what had happened. So Mrs T completed the form. Mrs Ts evidence and 
the third-partys evidence both pointed to the other driver being at fault.
In the policy handbook, under How your claims are settled, it says:
Your insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and to 
instruct the solicitors of their choice to act for you in any proceedings. In circumstances 
where it is considered appropriate your insurer will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs 
covered under this policy, on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under the 
policy.
So the policy terms allow Advantage to defend or settle a claim. It can make a decision that 
Mrs T doesnt agree with. Whilst its not my role to determine who should be liable for an 
incident I can consider if Advantages decision to accept liability was made fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms of her policy. 
Im satisfied Advantage was within their contractual rights to settle the 2018 claim as they 
did. Ive gone on to consider the steps Advantage took and the information that was 
available to see if that decision was also fair and reasonable.
No supporting evidence was available. The claim notes record that there was no CCTV, 
witnesses or dashcam footage. So Advantage decided to process the claim as a 50:50 split 
liability, where each party would be recorded as partially responsible for the accident. 
Advantage have said that they settled the claim as a split liability as there was no 
independent evidence to show who had caused the collision. Considering all the evidence 
available I cant say their decision to accept split liability - and not try to defend at court - was 
unfair or unreasonable.  
I can see that it must have been confusing that Advantage were prepared to defend the 
2017 accident, but not the 2018 one. But theyre entitled to settle claims as they see fit. And 
they felt they could successfully defend the 2017 accident, but not the 2018 one. Given the lack of supporting evidence available for Mrs T not being at fault for the 2018 accident, I 
consider that was a reasonable decision under the circumstances.
No Claims Discount
Mrs T wants her nine years of NCD to be reinstated. 
Mrs Ts policy schedule for the period 3 March 2017 to 3 March 2018 confirms that she didnt 
have protected no claims. It then explains what would happen in the event of a fault claim 
and an outstanding or open claim. NCD of nine years steps back to four years. And NCD of 
four years steps back to two years.
Mrs T is unhappy that her NCD was reduced from nine years to four while the 2017 claim 
was being resolved. But Advantage are entitled to do this under the terms of her policy. And 
I note that after the 2017 claim had been settled Advantage refunded £77.95 in respect of 
the 2018 renewal. So while Mrs T was on cover with Advantage, she paid premiums based 
on 9 (or 4) years NCD as appropriate. Mrs T wasnt insured with Advantage in 2019 and 
2020, as they declined to offer her insurance at the 2019 renewal. 
Id expect Advantage to make Mrs Ts new insurers aware of her NCD for 2019. This had 
been reduced to two years while the 2017 court case was pending, and the 2018 accident 
had been recorded as a 50:50 split liability. But it went back to four years as soon as the 
2017 claim was settled. I understand that Advantage have advised Mrs T to use their 
confirmation of her NCD to her new insurers so that they can recalculate the premiums for 
2019 and after.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mrs T fairly when 
they reduced her NCD because of the two accidents. After the successful court case about 
the 2017 accident, I note that theyve adjusted the 2018 premium Mrs T paid to allow for nine 
years NCD. And theyve ensured Mrs T can demonstrate her NCD history to her new 
insurers.
Im satisfied that if the 2017 accident had been the only accident, Advantage wouldve 
reinstated her NCD to nine years. Theyve already acknowledged this when they refunded 
the difference between the 2018 premium based on four years NCD and the premium based 
on nine years NCD. And Ive already explained why I consider Advantages treatment of the 
2018 accident to be fair and reasonable. So I cant say Advantage have done anything 
wrong with Mrs Ts NCD. 
I know this isnt what Mrs T was hoping to hear, but Im satisfied that Advantage acted fairly 
and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman