DRN-3625866
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain they missed out on a favourable interest rate for their mortgage 
when Barclays Bank UK PLC advised them to delay switching to a new fixed term interest 
rate product.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC was made up of four parts, three of 
which benefited from fixed term interest rate products. They wanted to switch those three 
parts to a new deal and align the dates on which the products came to an end. The existing 
products were all subject to early repayment charges if they brought them to an end early. 
Mr B approached Barclays in February 2022 to discuss moving to a seven-year fixed rate 
deal that was available at the time. He had an initial discussion on 14 February when an 
appointment to arrange the product switch was booked for later in the month. 
Mr B and Mrs B were prepared to pay the small ERC that would be due on one part of the 
mortgage where the deal they had wouldnt end until 2023. The products on the other two 
parts were due to end on 31 May 2022. 
Since the appointment wasnt arranged within the last 90 days of those two products, Mr B 
and Mrs B would have incurred significant ERCs if theyd gone ahead and switched then.   
Mr B agreed with the Barclays mortgage adviser to rearrange the meeting.
Unfortunately, the seven-year deal Mr B had wanted to secure was no longer available by 
the time of the rearranged appointment. Although Mr B and Mrs B had avoided paying the 
ERCs, they were obliged to pay interest at a higher rate than they would have paid had they 
gone with the earlier deal. Mr B and Mrs B said they would pay additional interest of around 
£10,000 because of what happened. They thought Barclays should reimburse them for that. 
Barclays didnt respond to their complaint in time, so our investigator considered it. 
Our investigator thought Barclays should have managed Mr B and Mrs Bs expectations 
about the ERCs when they arranged the appointment to discuss a product switch. He 
thought Barclays should have given Mr B and Mrs B more information about the ERCs 
theyd pay if they switched too early, before rearranging the appointment. But he didnt think 
Barclays were to blame for Mr B and Mrs B missing out on the interest rate deal. To put 
things right, our investigator thought it was fair Barclays pay compensation of £250 for poor 
service. Since Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Barclays to provide additional information to get a better understanding of what 
happened, including the calls that took place on 14 and 25 February 2022. I acknowledge  
Mr B and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about what happened. But, considering everything, Ive 
come to the same view as our investigator for broadly the same reasons, as Ill explain.
From what Ive seen, I think Mr B and Mrs B had a good understanding of how their 
mortgage worked. Theyd previously taken fixed rate products. Theyve told us they always 
factored in that ERCs may be payable when seeking mortgage products. They were actively 
managing their mortgage. And from the conversations Mr B had with Barclays, I think he was 
aware ERCs attached to those parts of the mortgage they were planning to align. 
Mr B told the mortgage adviser on 25 February he was willing to pay the ERC of around 
£216 on the smaller part of the mortgage where the fixed rate wouldnt end until 2023. He 
was aware the products on the other two parts of the mortgage didnt end until May 2022.  
Whilst the amount of the ERCs on those parts wasnt mentioned either by him, or the 
mortgage adviser, I think Mr B was probably aware they were significant. I note they were 
set out in the 2017 mortgage offer.
I accept Mr B wasnt aware theyd have to pay the ERCs if they arranged a product switch 
before they were within the last 90 days of the existing products. When the mortgage adviser 
told him that, he was understandably annoyed the appointment had been arranged too early. 
Mr B thought it odd the appointment had been put in when it had, given hed mentioned the 
existing products didnt end until 31 May. I think Mr B and Mrs B had been planning to time 
the product switch to coincide with the end of the product terms to avoid paying the ERCs. 
I acknowledge Mr B and Mrs B were keen to secure the seven-year deal Mr B had identified. 
He mentioned to the mortgage adviser he was aware a rate increase had happened but 
thought it hadnt affected that deal yet. She confirmed it was still available. But she also 
mentioned rates could change quickly. And I think Mr B understood that. 
To be within the 90 days, the rearranged appointment needed to take place from 2 March. It 
wasnt arranged until 8 March. But the seven-year deal Mr B and Mrs B had wanted was 
withdrawn on 1 March. So even if the meeting had been rearranged sooner, Mr B and Mrs B 
would have missed out on the rate. Equally, if the meeting had been arranged within the   
90-day period at the outset, they would have missed out on the rate as well. 
I wouldnt expect the mortgage adviser to have known if and when a rate change was due to 
take place. That sort of information is confidential and decisions to change interest rates are 
made for commercial reasons. Its unfortunate the rate changed shortly before Mr B and   
Mrs B could apply for a new rate and avoid paying the high ERCs. I can understand it was 
disappointing for them. But, bearing everything in mind, I think Mr B and Mrs B wanted to 
avoid paying the ERCs; Mr B took the ERCs into account when he agreed to rearrange the 
appointment; and I think he agreed to rearrange the appointment knowing the rate he was 
looking at could change in the meantime. I think he had enough information to come to a 
choice about how to proceed. So, I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for Mr B and Mrs B 
missing out on the seven-year deal.
Even if Id thought Barclays were at fault, the extent to which Mr B and Mrs B lost out 
financially isnt clear. They would have needed to take the ERCs into account in calculating 
any net saving in interest.
I accept it was inconvenient for Mr B and Mrs B that the appointment had to be rearranged. 
And I can see they were unhappy with the service Barclays provided later, before Mr B 
managed to arrange new products on-line in mid-March. I think its fair that Barclays 
compensate Mr B and Mrs B for the inconvenience they were caused through poor service. 
And I think the £250 our investigator proposed is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr B and Mrs B compensation of £250 to reflect the impact on them of 
the distress and inconvenience they were caused through Barclays poor service. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay them 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman