DRN-3202016
The complaint
Ms T complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim she made on her car 
insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
On 1 October 2021, Ms Ts car was hit by a third-party cyclist. As a result, her car was 
damaged but deemed repairable upon inspection by AXAs engineer.
Ms T raised a number of concerns about AXAs handling of the claim. These included:
The information (or lack of) that was provided about her vehicle once it had been 
collected.
The delay in reimbursing her for a replacement child seat.
AXAs position in initially declining a courtesy car, even though the damage wasnt 
deemed as a total loss.
The delay in receiving a courtesy car, which wasnt received until 20 October 2021.
Ms T complained to AXA. She said she wanted compensation to cover what it wouldve cost 
her to hire a car for the duration she was without one. She also wanted compensation for a 
missed medical appointment and additional compensation for the stress and effect on her 
daily life.
AXA responded to Ms T. It accepted there had been errors in the handling of her claim, 
including not receiving regular updates on the status of her vehicle, and delays in providing a 
courtesy car which she was entitled to under the policy. AXA offered Ms T a total of £300 
compensation for its errors.
Ms T didnt accept AXAs offer and referred her complaint to our service. She said the 
amount of compensation offered was too low and didnt fairly reflect either the costs she had 
incurred, or the level of distress and inconvenience caused. And she wanted her premium 
returned based on the poor service received.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that AXAs offer of £300 compensation was fair and reasonable for the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Ms T. And they didnt agree that Ms T should receive a refund of 
premiums as she had successfully claimed on the policy.
Ms T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said there were ongoing 
issues with the claim and repairs and maintained she hadnt been compensated fairly for the 
issues AXA had caused so far.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Ms T has raised additional concerns regarding the repairs and return of her 
vehicle. But these fall outside the scope of my decision and will need to be considered as a 
separate matter to this complaint.
My decision will therefore consider the period from when Ms T initially raised her claim to 
AXA on 1 October, to the point she was provided with a courtesy car on 20 October 2021 in 
order to arrive at a relevant and fair answer. 
In reaching my conclusion, Ive carefully considered Ms Ts testimony about the impact of 
AXAs actions. And I want to reassure her that Ive taken all her concerns into account. But 
my role is to look at things impartially and weigh up what both parties have said. And I also 
need to consider our services wider approach to compensation awards, which can be found 
on our website. And having done so, whilst I have some sympathy for the situation she found 
herself in, I consider AXAs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why below:
I do not require AXA to refund Ms Ts premiums as she has entered into a contract of 
insurance and benefitted from a valid claim (albeit with poor service) under the policy. 
So, it would in fact put her in a worse off position if the premiums were refunded as 
the contract would then be treated as if it had never existed.
AXAs policy terms state, If your car is repaired by one of our approved repairers, 
you will be supplied with a courtesy car. AXAs engineers report deemed the car 
repairable on 6 October 2021, so I find this was the point that any delays became 
avoidable.
AXA acknowledged a further error it made on 7 October where it rejected Ms Ts 
requested for a courtesy car. And this clearly added to her distress and upset when it 
was something she was entitled to under the policy.
I can see that AXA raised a request for a courtesy car on 15 October following Ms Ts 
complaint, and the car was ultimately provided by 20 October. So, I find a clear 
period of 14 days where Ms T was without her entitled courtesy car. 
So taking into account the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused, and 
considering Ms T found it difficult to get up to date information on the progress of the 
claim from AXAs agent, Im satisfied that AXAs offer of £300 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms T has provided further testimony of a missed medical appointment which she 
says hasnt been taken into account, along with her loss of earnings. But in order to 
consider further compensation here, I would need to see some firm evidence of these 
consequential losses along with any reasonable action taken by Ms T to mitigate the 
circumstances. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me that AXA should be 
required to pay any more compensation here. I accept Ms T feels very strongly about 
this point, but Ive not seen enough to directly link AXAs actions to the alleged 
additional costs here.Ms Ts policy does contain provision to cover travel expenses in the event a courtesy 
car cannot be arranged  up to a maximum of £15 per day. So were she to provide 
AXA with evidence of additional incurred costs during the period that the car was 
agreed but not yet provided, I would expect AXA to consider them in line with the 
policy terms. But I dont think it follows that Ms T should be compensated for what a 
hire car wouldve cost for this period, as she wouldve only been entitled to £15 per 
day in any event.
I do appreciate Ms T will most likely be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons 
above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman