DRN-3462953
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money withdrew its Online 
Service before its replacement mobile app was ready to replace it. 
What happened
Mr S has told us he previously used Virgin Moneys Online Service to access credit card 
statements and download them in a CSV file. 
Towards the end of 2020 Virgin Money contacted customers to notify them it intended to 
switch off its Online Service from 31 January 2021. Virgin Money explained the credit card 
could be managed via its mobile app where online statements would be available. But there 
was no ability to download statements as CSV files in the mobile app. Mr S has told us he 
wasnt made aware of mobile app limitations when Virgin Money notified him it was 
withdrawing its Online Service. 
Mr S complained but Virgin Money didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Virgin Money said it had 
taken a business decision to withdraw its Online Service and replace it with a mobile app. 
Virgin Money also said it was hoping to introduce the ability to download transactions as a 
CSV file in the near future. Virgin Money paid Mr S £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Virgin Money says the facility to download CSV files was introduced on its mobile app in 
early July 2021. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint but didnt think Virgin Money had 
acted unfairly. Mr S asked to appeal and said Virgin Money had withdrawn its Online Service 
before the mobile app was ready. Mr S said Virgin Money had unfairly removed an essential 
function when CSV file downloads werent immediately made available. Mr S feels the terms 
of the credit card require Virgin Money to give notice of its intention to withdraw specific 
features that were available via its Online Service. 
As Mr S asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S has told us he uses the CSV files to add his credit card movements to accounting 
software. I understand that the removal of the facility to download CSV files caused Mr S 
some inconvenience. I can see how strongly Mr S feels in this matter and understand why 
the use of CSV files to download statements was particularly important to him. But I havent 
been persuaded that Virgin Money has treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Virgin Moneys starting point is that it took a business decision to withdraw its Online 
Service. Businesses are free to use commercial discretion when deciding how to operate, 
including what services to offer customers. As Mr S has noted in his discussions with the 
investigator, the terms governing his credit card allow Virgin Money to change its agreement 
to reflect changes to systems. The terms say that where the change is to the card holders 
disadvantage 30 days notice will be given. Whilst I appreciate Mr S view that the withdrawal 
of the Online Service and all its functions (including the ability to download CSV files) was to 
his disadvantage, its a step the terms allowed Virgin Money to take. 
Theres nothing in the terms of the credit card or regulations Virgin Money operates under 
that says it has to provide a service that allows customers to download statements as CSV 
files. Im satisfied Virgin Money could take the decision to withdraw that service and that it 
gave Mr S the relevant notice of its intention.
Virgin Money explained customers could continue to access their credit card account via its 
mobile app. I note Mr S comments on the nature of the services provided within the Online 
Service and mobile app and whether they were withdrawn or paused. And understand that 
Mr S feels Virgin Money shouldve given notice of specific features that were no longer 
available when moving to the mobile app. But, Virgin Money notified customers about the 
change giving them time to download the application and review the services provided 
before the Online Service was withdrawn. So it was possible to compare the facilities 
provided by each service before the Online Service was withdrawn. Whilst I understand 
Mr S view, I havent been persuaded that Virgin Money acted unfairly. 
Mr S says Virgin Money failed to fulfil promises to reintroduce the CSV file downloads in 
good time. I can see Virgin Money said it hoped the function would be available in late April 
2021 but in reality it was early July 2021 when it went live. Whilst I can see Virgin Money told 
Mr S it hoped to reintroduce the function without delay, I havent seen evidence of 
guarantees of a specific date. I havent found evidence that shows Virgin Money caused 
unreasonable delays. 
I agree the withdrawal of the CSV file download function when withdrawing the Online 
Service did cause Mr S some inconvenience, but I havent been persuaded that Virgin 
Money treated him unfairly. Virgin Money was able to withdraw its Online Service, including 
the ability to download CSV files, as set out in its terms. I accept the replacement mobile app 
didnt immediately have the same functions, but thats a decision Virgin Money was entitled 
to take. 
Virgin Money paid Mr S £50 in recognition of problems he found when trying to view 
statements via its mobile app. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstance of Mr S complaint 
and recognises the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman