DRN-2783137
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as Moneyway, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway that he 
electronically signed in September 2019. A warning light came on in September 2020 so he 
took the car to a manufacturers dealer and a cylinder fault was identified. Mr J was told that 
the engine needed to be replaced and he says that he hasnt used the car since then.
He complained to Moneyway and it said that it was his responsibility to provide evidence that 
the faults were present at the point of sale  and that he hadnt done so. Mr J wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service and he paid for another diagnostic 
report on the car.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that there 
was enough information to persuade him, on the balance of probabilities, that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J and that it wasnt reasonably durable. He 
thought that the fault could be repaired but the engine replacement would cost a lot more 
than the value of the car. So unless a cheaper alternative could be obtained, he 
recommended that Moneyway should: collect the car; unwind the agreement and correct 
Mr Js credit file; refund any payments made since September 2020 and the diagnostic costs 
incurred (with interest).
Moneyway has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that M J hasnt evidenced that the issue with the car was present or developing at 
the point of supply and he completed 16,000 miles in the car before the issue manifested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr J. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to Mr J was more than five years old, had 
been driven for about 45,000 miles and had a price of £11,140. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number 
of factors.
The car had passed an MOT test in February 2020, when its mileage was recorded as 
53,786, and no advisories relating to engine performance were noted. Mr J had been able to 
use the car for more than a year before the warning light came on. He took the car to a 
manufacturers dealer for it to investigate a drive train warning light and injector fault  and 
he paid it £168. The cars mileage was recorded as 61,070 so hed been able to use the car 
to drive more than 16,000 miles before the warning light came on and a cylinder fault was 
identified. 
Mr J says that he was told that the engine had been tampered with and its mapping had 
been modified for performance gains which had led to a catastrophic engine failure. The 
manufacturers dealer said that the engine needed to be replaced and its since quoted 
£7,344.77 for the required repairs.
Mr J has provided a screenshot from the manufacturers dealers investigation of the fault 
which says: Warning! Suspected engine tuning. Fault code S 0777: Suspected engine 
tuning was set. Mr J says that the engine hasnt been tampered with and its mapping 
hasnt been modified since the car was supplied to him.  
He paid £126 to an independent garage which specialises in remapping cars from this 
manufacturer for it to investigate when the mapping wouldve been modified. It said that 
mapping had been completed on the car but it was unable to confirm the date when that had 
happened. Mr J has been clear and consistent in his testimony that the car hasnt been 
remapped since it was supplied to him and I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
engine was tampered with before the car was supplied to Mr J. I also consider it to be more 
likely than not that the modifications to the engine have caused the issues with the engine 
about which Mr J has complained.
For these reasons, I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr J. The manufacturers dealer has quoted £7,344.77 for the 
required repairs to the car. I dont consider that a repair costing £7,344.77 is appropriate on 
a car that cost £11,140 in September 2019 and which now has a mileage of 61,070. I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr J to be allowed to 
reject the car and I find that Moneyway should take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Moneyway should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be 
collected from Mr J  both at no cost to him. The agreement shows that he didnt pay a 
deposit for the car. I find that Moneyway should also remove any information about the hire 
purchase agreement that its recorded on Mr Js credit file.
Mr J was able to use the car until September 2020 so I consider that its fair and reasonable 
for Moneyway to keep the monthly payments that he made under the agreement up until 
then as payment for that use. But I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund to 
Mr J any monthly payments that hes made under the agreement after then, with interest.
Mr J paid £168 to the manufacturers dealer and then £126 to an independent garage for 
diagnostic work on the car. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Moneyway to 
reimburse him for those costs, with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and I order Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as 
Moneyway, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr J  both at no cost to him.2. Refund to Mr J the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
September 2020.
3. Pay £168 and £126 to Mr J to reimburse him for the diagnostic costs that hes 
incurred.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Js credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyway to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Moneyway must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman