DRN-3687434
The complaint
Mr H complains Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions limited (Hitachi) has unfairly made end of 
contract charges for damages. He asks for the charges to be waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion of 4 August 2022, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus 
on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of Mr Hs finance agreement held him accountable for returning the car in an 
acceptable condition. If there was damage on the car that was in excess of what the industry 
guidelines (provided by the BVRLA) considered fair wear and tear, then Hitachi could make 
a charge for that refurbishment. 
Ive reviewed the photographs of the damage to the car and I would agree with the inspector 
that in each case the damage is in excess of the BVRLA guidelines and is chargeable. This 
is because the photographs are clear, and the inspector used a size guide to evidence the 
damages were outside of the permitted limits under the fair wear and tear guidance.
I appreciate Mr H returned the car with high level of cleanliness and the inside as he 
describes as immaculate but there is no provision in the agreement for this to offset any 
damages.
I can also see in its final response Hitachi offered to reduce Mr Hs invoice by £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill and so I find it has been fair and reasonable in its response and would 
ask it honours that offer to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman