DRN-3563973
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) - didnt provide a fair and reasonable response to his claim under sections 75 
and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) in respect of a timeshare product purchase they 
financed.
What happened
At some point prior to July 2009, Mr P said he was offered free holiday accommodation 
during a holiday presentation. As a result, he travelled to a holiday destination, outside of the 
UK, whereupon, on or around 14 July 2009, he was invited to a presentation and tour of 
various holiday properties.
Following the presentation, Mr P was offered various timeshare apartments and packages 
by a timeshare supplier Ill refer to as S. He said he was told that if he took six timeshares, 
S would re-sell five of them within two years. In the meantime, S would assist in securing 
bookings for the timeshares. 
Mr P agreed to the purchase and said all paperwork was completed on the same day. The 
purchase price was £18,834 and after a payment of £4,000, a balance to pay of £14,834 
was funded under a credit agreement provided by BPF.
In March 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr P made a claim to BPF 
under sections 75 (S75) and 140 (S140A) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). 
The PR said that as S are now in liquidation, they cant provide the service sold resulting in a 
breach of contract. They also said that the timeshare was mis-sold to Mr P by S. And but for 
misrepresentations made by S, Mr P wouldnt have purchased the product(s) and wouldnt 
have entered into the finance agreement with BPF.  
In particular, the PR said S misrepresented the product(s) by representing the contract as an 
investment contrary to section 14 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TR). Further, that S failed to sell the timeshare(s) as 
promised as there was no secondary market  that being something S was either aware of 
at the time or reasonably should have been aware of.
The PR also thought the terms of the agreement were so egregious as to be unfair. In 
particular, they said:
the product was sold under extreme sales pressure;
commission paid by BPF to S wasnt disclosed;
Mr P wasnt given time to consider and understand the agreement;
S didnt advise Mr P he could consider other creditors to fund the purchase; and
no proper affordability checks were undertaken.
In their response to Mr Ps claim, BPF thought that because it had been raised more than six 
years after the event complained of, Mr Ps claim under S75 was brought too late under the 
provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). They also said that because Mr P had 
settled the loan(s) on 7 April 2011, any claim under S140A had also been brought to late 
under the LA.
The PR didnt agree with BPFs findings. In response, they said:
there is no statutory time limit under the CCA, nor for asking this service to look into 
BPFs refusal to investigate the complaint properly. They said the restriction under 
the LA only related to court action;
as S entered liquidation on 15 January 2020, any breach of contract was at that point 
and Mr P had six years from then to make a claim;
Mr Ps claim isnt time barred as he is not a sophisticated buyer and only discovered 
the actual characteristics of the product(s) purchased many years later, having 
sought professional advice; and
Mr P wasnt aware of various facts which were concealed from him and werent 
readily identifiable, as an unsophisticated buyer. So, section 32 of the LA allows for 
any limitation to be postponed.
In the absence of a further response from BPF, the PR referred Mr Ps complaint to this 
service. Having considered all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt 
think BPF had acted unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting Mr Ps claim.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for time to prepare and submit 
detailed submissions with input from Senior Counsel - In particular relative to time bar. The 
PR asked that if an extension couldnt be permitted, Mr Ps complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr P paid 
for the timeshare product(s) with funding under a CCA regulated loan agreement. So, it isnt 
in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr P is afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr P and BPF arising out of the 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because the products 
purchased were funded under the credit agreement, theyre deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Ps complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
This is because the original transactions - the purchases funded by a loan with BPF - took 
place in 2009. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive 
considered the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of, and response to, Mr Ps claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. While the 
decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal findings 
 that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address, in my 
decision, every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
The claim of misrepresentation under S75
Mr P says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits to 
him when he bought the product(s). And the PR believe this brings cause for a claim under 
S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr P had to make any 
claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement. 
The CMC confirm this took place in July 2009. Thats because this is when they say Mr P 
lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in March 2021. 
But as the claim was made more than 11 years after Mr P first says he lost out; I believe a 
court is likely to find that his claim falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA. So, I 
cant fairly say that BPFs response ultimately appears unreasonable here.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, in determining 
whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High Courts decision in Patel v 
Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having regard to the entirety of the 
relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. 
In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr P and BPF continues while the finance agreements remains live. 
So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing under it has 
been repaid. Its at this point that Mr P has six years in which to make any claim under 
S140A.
In their final response to Mr P, BPF confirmed that any loans were redeemed/settled [] on 
the 7 April 2011. So, this suggests the relationship with BPF also ended at that point. In the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think Mr P had 6 years from April 2011 within 
which to submit his claim under S140A. But his claim wasnt submitted to BPF until almost 
10 years after that. As a consequence, I believe a court is likely to find that this claim also 
falls outside the time limit permitted in the LA. Once again, I cant reasonably say that BPFs 
response was, therefore, unreasonable here.
Could limitation be postponed?
The LA does provide for postponement of the relevant limitation period in certain 
circumstances. The PR believes section 32 of the LA applies here. Section 32(1)(b) of the LA says that, if any fact relevant to the debtors right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from them, the period of limitation doesnt begin until the debtor 
(Mr P) has discovered the concealment, or it could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered by him  and section 32(2) says that deliberate commission of a breach of duty 
which is unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate concealment of the 
facts in the breach.
For section 32 to apply here, its important to recognise that Mr P (and his representatives) 
need to demonstrate and provide evidence to support any alleged deliberate concealment by 
S. But the PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the allegations of 
concealment here. Although not determinative of the matter, I also havent seen any 
documentation which supports the PRs assertions, like marketing material or detailed 
documentation from the time of the sale. The PR have only provided the Purchase 
Agreement document which extends to a single page. So, its not possible for me to say, 
with any certainty, that there were elements of the contract that were concealed (deliberately 
or otherwise) from Mr P.
The PR do contend that the payment of commission by BPF to S was concealed from Mr P. 
Again, as theres limited documentation available, I cant say with any certainty that was the 
case. However, Mr P has confirmed that he wasnt told by S they would receive a payment 
of commission once the loan was agreed.
But I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid S commission was incompatible with their 
role in the transaction. S wasnt acting as an agent of Mr P, but as the supplier of contractual 
rights obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ss role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr P advice or information on that basis. As far as 
Im aware, Mr P was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any 
suggestion or evidence that Mr P requested those details from BPF or S. And on that basis, 
Im not persuaded that any failure to inform Mr P of commission paid here (if any) constitutes 
deliberate concealment within the context of the provisions of section 32.
Breach of contract
As Ive already said, the only document from the time of the sale Ive seen is a single page 
purchase agreement from July 2009. This lists the various properties included within the 
timeshare. It also names the duly authorised agent of the owner of the property as a 
company Ill refer to as R  which I understand was the former name of S. 
The Letter of Claim said that S was in liquidation and couldnt provide the service it sold to 
Mr P. So, as far as he and the PR are concerned, thered been a breach of contract. But 
BPF have confirmed to this service that the resorts included within Mr Ps timeshare 
agreement remain in operation, and the liquidation of S didnt impact Mr Ps ability to use the 
timeshare(s). Further, in a document provided by the PR, Mr P says he gradually managed 
to sell our timeshares over the next 5 years, albeit its not clear when the last was sold.
Based upon this information, I cant therefore say that Mr P suffered any loss as a 
consequence of Ss liquidation that BPF is likely to be liable for.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr Ps claim that could be considered outside of S75 and 
S140A. In particular, in relation to whether BPF undertook a proper credit assessment. 
The PR have made various allegations suggesting that the loan was provided irresponsibly. 
In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by S or BPF, having not discussed this aspect with Mr P and not sought details to confirm his income at the time and as part of 
any assessment.
The PR havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or unsuitable 
for Mr P. And whilst Mr P says he was put into financial difficulties and had to arrange 
another loan to cover the debts, Ive not seen anything that supports any allegation of 
financial difficulty from that time. 
BPF havent provided any specific explanation or evidence of the credit assessment 
undertaken. And given the passage of time, I think its unlikely this information would still be 
readily available. If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests 
 and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable 
for Mr P in order to uphold his complaint here. However, with no specific information about 
Mr Ps actual position at the time and no supporting evidence that he struggled to maintain 
repayments, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him. And given it 
appears the loan was fully repaid in 2011, there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss 
here either.
Summary
I cant see that this service has received any further submissions or evidence from the PR 
specific to Mr Ps complaint following our investigators findings. Given all the information 
and evidence that is available, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down the claims under S75 
and S140A, as they appear to have brought too late. Nor do I think theres any evidence to 
suggest Mr P suffered any loss following the liquidation of S or as a consequence of the 
checks BPF did (or didnt) undertake as part of their credit assessment. 
So, while I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, I wont be asking BPF to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman