DRN-4120587
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A handled a claim they made under the travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, to cover them for a trip 
between 12 August 2021 and 07 September 2021. The policy provided cover for various pre-
departure and post-departure risks.
Mr and Mrs O have explained they were due to travel to country A first and enjoy time there. 
And then fly onwards to country B, to visit family. The rationale for holidaying in country A 
first, was so they could enter country B. This was because at the time Mr and Mrs O were 
planning on travelling, country B wasnt allowing anyone to enter the country if they had 
been in the UK in the preceding 14 days. Travelling to country A first meant they could enter 
country B.
However, around a week before Mr and Mrs O were due to travel to country A, it went onto 
the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Offices (FCDO) red list. That meant it wasnt 
possible to travel to country A any longer. And therefore, Mr and Mrs O couldnt travel to 
country B either. So, Mr and Mrs O were no longer able to take their trip at all.
On discovering this, Mr and Mrs O contacted a claims line for their travel insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs O have said they were told by a representative on this claims line to accept any 
offers from the airlines to rebook their flights or any offers to provide vouchers in exchange 
for travelling on the original flights. So, Mr and Mrs O said thats what they did.  
Mr and Mrs O rebooked some of the flights to travel at another point instead. But, when it 
became clear it wasnt going to be possible to travel then either, they submitted a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs O explained their claim was for £1,051.67. This was based on the following:
1) £462.72 worth of flight rebooking fees.
2) £304.31 for the cost of a flight they couldnt take or receive a refund for.
3) £284.99 for a flight they were provided a voucher for, but the voucher expired before 
it was possible to use it, given government restrictions.
Mapfre considered the claim, and in November 2022, offered Mr and Mrs O a settlement of 
£399.30. They said this was for the losses noted in numbers two and three above, minus the 
applicable policy excess. Mapfre didnt provide any settlement for the flight rebooking fees  
noting those werent something covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was fair. They said when discussing the claims settlement with 
Mapfre, they were told theyd received incorrect advice when they originally called the claims 
line. Mr and Mrs O said theyd been told that if they hadnt rebooked some flights and 
accepted vouchers for others, their whole holiday cost would have been covered under their 
policy. The whole holiday cost being £2,197.74. And they wouldnt have incurred booking 
fees either.
Mr and Mrs O therefore considered the insurer should be providing them with the cost of 
their original holiday, and the rebooking fees, instead of £399.30.
Mapfre considered its claims settlement to be fair. But it did offer Mr and Mrs O £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience delays in handling their claim caused. 
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with Mapfres position on the matter. So, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said the 
cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Os policy covered them for unused costs only. And, as 
Mapfre had paid for the cost of an unused flight, and an unused flight voucher, it had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when settling Mr and Mrs Os 
claim.
Our investigator also noted that the policy didnt policy didnt provide cover for rebooking 
fees. So, they didnt think Mapfre had acted unfairly by not settling these costs.
Our investigator also noted that the £100 compensation Mapfre had paid them was fair and 
explained that they didnt hold Mapfre accountable for any information Mr and Mrs O were 
provided when calling the claims line. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree and raised concerns about how the claims line had acted. 
Our investigator responded to these points and maintained their position. They said Mapfre 
wasnt responsible for any action taken by the claims line, which our investigator considered 
was answered by an insurance broker, who was a separate entity to Mapfre. In addition, our 
investigator said that, looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Os policy, their 
policy didnt provide cover for cancellation when the loss arose because of government 
restrictions. So, they didnt consider Mapfre needed to provide any further settlement 
anyway.
Mr and Mrs O raised several further points. And reiterated that a Mapfre advisor theyd 
spoken to in November 2022 had told their full claim would have settled if they hadnt 
accepted vouchers and rebooked flights. They felt more weight should be given to that when 
this service arrived at an outcome. 
Because Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with out investigators outcome, this complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on deciding the claim settlement of £399.30, and the 
compensation of £100 is fair. Im not intending on requiring Mapfre to do anything more than 
this.  
I understand this will be a disappointed to Mr and Mrs O. But Id like to reassure them I have 
considered all submissions when coming to my provisional decision. Ive explained my 
provisional decision below  but only made reference to information and evidence where I 
consider it necessary to explain my reasoning.Claim settlement 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Mapfre acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to 
settle only £399.30 for Mr and Mrs Os claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs Os policy documentation. From doing so, I can see that there 
is cover for the cancellation of a trip, in certain circumstances. The cancellation section of 
the policy notes that:
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, for any non-refundable 
unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges (including sports, 
concert and entertainment tickets) which You have paid or are contracted to pay together 
with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if. 
a) Cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable..
As a result of one of the following events occurring.
This section then goes on to list events such as illness, compulsory quarantine or 
redundancy. As is usual with policies of this nature, if the reason for the trip cancellation isnt 
listed under this section, then the claim isnt covered.
Mapfre has accepted £399.30 of Mr and Mrs Os claim, as covered under the cancellation 
section. Settling flight costs Mr and Mrs O noted in their claim form that were non-
refundable. As Mapfre has accepted this element of the claim, and this isnt in dispute I 
havent needed to consider this element any further. Instead, Ive needed to consider those 
elements which remain in dispute. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Os claim form. And apart from the above flights Mapfre provided 
settlement for, Mr and Mrs O claimed for £462.72 worth of rebooking fees. These costs 
remain in dispute. Mapfre has said these arent covered under the policy. Ive thought about 
whether Mapfre acted fairly in deciding not to cover these. And Im satisfied it did. 
I say this because the cancellation section, explains that the following isnt covered under 
the policy:
The cost of any recoverable air passenger duty (APD) charges made by a scheduled airline 
as part of Your booking, ATOL protection fees and any administration fees included in the 
cost of the flight booking or refund process.
Im satisfied that rebooking fees fall into the above, as they are administration fees included 
in the cost of flight booking. So, I dont think Mapfre did anything wrong in declining to settle 
these costs. 
I understand Mr and Mrs O dont think this is fair. Specifically, because when they spoke to 
the claims line they called in August 2021, they were told to rebook flights or accept 
vouchers where this was offered to them. So, they felt its reasonable for the rebooking fees 
to be covered. Ive thought about this carefully. But I dont agree that means the rebooking 
fees ought to be covered by Mapfre.
Mr and Mrs O have said they recently called the claims line they rang in August 2021. And 
were told that a party called T had been responsible for answering the claims line at that time. Mr and Mrs O consider that T had answered on behalf of Mapfre. I think it answered on 
behalf of Mapfre too  working as an administrator on behalf of it. 
But that doesnt mean to say I think T did anything wrong during this call. Or that it means 
Mapfre should pay for rebooking fees, outside the terms of the policy. I havent been able to 
listen to the call between T and Mapfre. Mapfre says it doesnt have the recording. So, Ive 
needed to consider what I think is most likely to have happened here.
Mr and Mrs O said they were told to accept vouchers or rebook their flights. And I accept it is 
likely they were told that. I say this because an insurance policy of this nature doesnt 
generally provide cover for costs refundable (recoverable) elsewhere. So, Mr and Mrs O 
would have needed to have made use of the refund and rebook options they were given by 
the airlines. Given this, I dont think its fair to say the information provided on this call was 
wrong. And Ive no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs O were told that if they then couldnt 
go on the trip at a later date, rebooking fees would be covered by the policy. So, I dont think 
its likely they were given misinformation. And I dont think Mapfre need to pay Mr and Mrs O 
for the rebooking fees they incurred.
Mr and Mrs O have said a Mapfre representative has told them something different. They 
said the Mapfre representative told them that if they hadnt accepted vouchers or rebooked 
their flights, they would have been able to claim for the flight costs associated with the whole 
of their original trip. They said they have therefore been disadvantaged by following the 
information given to them in August 2021.
Ive also considered this point. I havent listened to this call either. But I dont think I need to. 
Because even if I accept Mr and Mrs O were told this by a Mapfre representative, I dont 
think it changes the outcome of the claim. Thats because Ive considered the policy terms, 
and Im satisfied they never would have provided cover for the whole of the original flight 
costs.
The cancellation section of the policy explains:
What is not covered
Cancelling or curtailment of Your trip due to: (a) restrictions implemented by any 
government or administration; or (b) actions taken by a transport or accommodation 
provider; if those restrictions or actions relate to a pandemic illness (as declared by the 
World Health Organisation), including Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) or severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARSCOV-2) or any mutation or variation of these.
Mr and Mrs Os trip was cancelled as a result of restrictions implemented by the government, 
in relation to Covid-19. So, I can see the policy doesnt cover cancellation for this reason  
including for their original flights. I know Mr and Mrs O feel more weight should be given to 
what Mapfre told them about being able to claim for all of the original flights. But I dont 
agree. The insurance contract are the terms the cover is based on and was agreed to. So, I 
dont think I could fairly require Mapfre to pay any additional amount under the policy, given 
it would never have been covered. 
Claim delay
Mr and Mrs O have also raised the time taken for Mapfre to progress their claim. So, Ive 
considered this element of their complaint too. As above, Mapfre had a duty to progress Mr 
and Mrs O promptly and fairly. Mapfre has accepted it didnt do this  and offered £100 
compensation in this respect.I agree that Mr and Mrs Os claim took a long time to progress. Mr and Mrs O made their 
claim in February 2022 and didnt receive any form of outcome on their claim until November 
2022. I can see how having to wait this length of time would have been troubling, and 
inconvenient. So, Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable resolution to this element of 
the complaint is.
And Im satisfied the £100 compensation already offered is fair. I say this because I think it 
acknowledges that whilst the open claim wasnt affecting Mr and Mrs Os day-day-day life, it 
was troubling having the claim outstanding. And inconvenient that they needed to chase an 
outcome.
Mapfre responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs O responded and 
didnt agree. In summary, Mr and Mrs O referred to the phone calls they had with Mapfre on 
6 August 2021 and 18 November 2022. They said they were given incorrect advice on the 
phone call in August 2021 and lost out because of it. And the phone call on 18 November 
2022 evidenced this. So, they considered the call on 18 November 2022 should be listened 
to. 
Mr and Mrs O also questioned whether an insurer, who gives poor advice should be bound 
to compensate the customer for the bad advice.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains that the claim settlement of £399.30, and the 
compensation of £100 is fair, for the same reasons as noted in my provisional decision.
As my decision remains the same, I havent detailed it all again here. But instead, 
commented on parts of Mr and Mrs Os response to my provisional decision, where I 
consider this necessary. I havent commented on every part of this submission. But this isnt 
intended as a discourtesy. Instead, it reflects the information nature of this service. 
Mr and Mrs O referenced our investigators outcome in response to my provisional decision. 
But its important to note that my provisional decision is based on my own review of this 
case, and all of the information within it. And it supersedes that of our investigators opinion. 
So, I havent commented on our investigators outcome any further. 
Mr and Mrs O have referred to the call they had with Mapfre on 6 August 2021, and the 
information contained within this call. As detailed in my provisional decision, I accept that 
Mapfre are the party responsible for the contents of this call. 
I also accept that its likely Mr and Mrs O were told by Mapfre (its representatives) that they 
should accept vouchers or rebook their flights. But I dont agree this was incorrect 
information. As above, an insurance policy doesnt include costs refundable elsewhere. So, 
on realising Mr and Mrs O couldnt take their trip as planned, they would have needed to 
make use of any refunding or rebooking options they were given by the airlines. So, 
accepting what Mr and Mrs O have said about this call, I dont think they were given the 
wrong advice. This is the information I would have expected them to have been given. 
As noted in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence Mr and Mrs O were told 
rebooking fees would be covered under the policy either. So, I cant see they were given 
wrong information in that respect either. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O have said an insurer 
should be responsible for putting a situation right, if they gave wrong information. But as I dont think Mapfre gave incorrect information in August 2021, it follows that Mapfre dont 
need to pay anything further.
Mr and Mrs O have said this service should listen to a recording of the call from 18 
November 2022, between Mr and Mrs O and Mapfre. But Im satisfied I dont need to. Thats 
because even if Mr and Mrs O were told in this call that they would have been able to get 
their original flight costs back if they didnt follow the advice given in August 2021, I can see 
thats not correct. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs O have lost out as a result of Mapfres actions 
in August 2021.
The terms of the policy dont provide cover where a trip was cancelled due to government 
implemented restrictions. And that was the reason for the cancellation in Mr and Mrs Os 
case. So, Im satisfied there was no cover under the policy for the whole of the original flight 
costs.  What Mr and Mrs O have said they were told on the call in November 2022 doesnt 
alter this. Mr and Mrs O had followed the information given to them in August 2021, and this 
wasnt wrong. And Mapfres ultimate decision on the claim was fair and reasonable, and in 
line with the contract of insurance. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.As claim settlement of £399.30 is fair and reasonable, as is the 
£100 compensation offered. So, I dont require Mapfre to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman