DRN-2137713
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays caused by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
during the handling of his claim.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Mr A was in dispute with a former tenant in 
relation to a commercial policy he let out. There was both a claim and a counterclaim. 
There has been disagreement between Mr A and DAS as to whether the claim, counterclaim 
or both ought to be covered by the policy  this is the subject of a separate complaint. There 
have also been numerous complaints raised throughout the claim in relation to a variety of 
issues. DAS have accordingly issued a number of Final Response Letters (FRLs) 
addressing these complaints. 
This complaint deals with a FRL issued by DAS on 14 November 2019. Mr A was unhappy 
with a lack of contact in relation to his claim. His solicitor chased DAS for responses on a 
number of occasions. DAS also asked his solicitor to return a form which the solicitor had 
already returned to them. Mr A says the lack of contact resulted in him incurring additional 
costs and fees.
DAS accepted their communication hadnt been to the standard they usually strive for and 
offered Mr A £200 compensation for the impact this had. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought 
the matter to our service. One of our investigators thought the offer DAS had already made 
was fair in the circumstances. And where Mr A was unhappy with other issues, he arranged 
for further complaints to be set up. But in relation to this complaint, he didnt think DAS 
needed to do more. Mr A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me 
explain why.
I appreciate that there have been numerous complaints about a number of issues. But in line 
with what our investigator explained, this complaint is specifically about delays in the 
handling of Mr As complaint after a previous FRL was issued in July 2019 and up until the 
November 2019 FRL was issued. 
Whilst I can understand it must be frustrating to deal with multiple complaints, our service 
can usually only become involved once a business has had an opportunity to put things right 
in the first instance. For these reasons, I wont be commenting on other issues that Mr A has 
raised that either ought to firstly be referred to DAS to respond to or, are already the subject 
of a separate complaint. 
DAS themselves accept the service they provided wasnt up to standard, so all that remains 
is for me to decide whether the £200 compensation is fair, or if they need to do more. I can 
only consider the impact on Mr A as the complainant, and much of the failed communication 
was between DAS and his solicitor. So, I dont think Mr A was personally inconvenienced to 
a great extent as it wasnt primarily him doing the communication. 
However, I accept that the delayed responses to his solicitor would have been a source of 
additional worry and concern to Mr A  at what was already a difficult and stressful time. Im 
also not persuaded that the delays prejudiced Mr As legal case itself. Something that is 
supported by the fact that I understand he more recently achieved a positive outcome at 
court. 
Mr A submitted an invoice from his solicitor for what he says are additional costs incurred in 
relation to delays by DAS. But the invoice covers legal work that took place after DAS had 
already issued their FRL in relation to this complaint. So, I agree with our investigator that 
those costs arent as a result of the delays being considered here. 
Looking at all the circumstances (within the parameters Ive set out above), Im satisfied that 
the £200 DAS have offered as compensation is fair. So, I wont be telling them they need to 
do anything further. If the £200 hasnt already been paid, Mr A should contact DAS to 
arrange this, should he now wish to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman