DRN-2262764
The complaint
Mr I isnt happy that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited reported incorrect information 
to his credit file and took an additional payment on his loan account.
What happened
Mr I has a personal loan with Future Finance. In October 2019, Mr I became aware that a 
missed payment was showing on his credit file for this account which wasnt correct. Mr I 
contacted Future Finance, who agreed that an error had been made and who confirmed that 
they would amend the information showing on Mr Is credit file.
When Mr I later checked his credit file the missed payment information hadnt been 
amended. In addition, Future Finance took a direct debit payment in November, despite the 
fact that Mr I had made a manual payment against the account several days before.
Mr I contacted Future Finance again who agreed to reimburse one of the November 
payments back to Mr I. Future Finance also apologised for the credit file information not 
being updated in a timely manner and promised to correct the information, which they 
ultimately did. Finally, Future Finance offered Mr I a payment of £25 by way of compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr I didnt think that Future Finances response went far enough, and he felt that Future 
Finances staff had provided him with a poor standard of service during the telephone calls 
that he had to make to them, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that, as well as the £25 offer of 
compensation, Future Finance had also effectively credited Mr I an additional £41.81  equal 
to the monthly payment amount on the account  because although Future Finance had 
returned one of the November payments to Mr I, they had left the balance of his account as 
though both November payments had been paid.
Our investigator also felt that, while Future Finance had made some errors in how theyd 
responded to Mr Is concerns about his account, they had acknowledged these mistakes and 
the inconvenience these had caused Mr I, and hadnt acted unreasonably or unfairly towards 
him. So on the whole, our investigator felt that Future Finance had responded appropriately 
to Mr Is complaint and that a fair outcome had already been reached, and so they didnt 
uphold Mr Is complaint.  
Mr I wasnt satisfied with the assessment of our investigator, and so the complaint was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to note that t Mr I has a number of complaints with Future Finance and is 
concerned that some of the information supplied by Future Finance to this service may relate 
to these other complaints and wouldnt be applicable in this instance. I would like to assure 
Mr I that I have taken the points he has raised with our investigator about this issue into 
consideration.
I can understand that it would frustrating for Mr I to discover that Future Finance were 
reporting incorrect information to his credit file, and to later realise that Future Finance hadnt 
updated the information on his credit file as they had said that they would. Future Finance 
have acknowledged their error with regard to both incorrectly reporting the information in the 
first instance, and also not correctly updating Mr Is credit file in a timely manner once they 
had been made aware that they made an incorrect report to it, and they do not dispute that 
Mr I has been inconvenienced because of this.
Future Finance have also acknowledged that they did take a direct debit payment in 
November, even though Mr I had made a manual payment a few days earlier. Future 
Finance refunded one of these payments to Mr I, and while Mr I has stated that he thinks this 
refund wasnt applied quickly enough, I am in agreement with the finding of our investigator 
that Future Finance did return the money to Mr I in a timely manner, having waited for 
confirmation that the payment they took by direct debit would be honoured by Mr Is bank.
So, from the standpoint of what materially happened with Mr Is account, an appropriate 
outcome has been reached. Mr Is credit file has been updated so that all incorrect 
information has been removed from it, and Mr I was reimbursed the additional payment that 
was taken from his account.
But, Mr I has been inconvenienced by what has happened here, and he has also complained 
about the standard of service that he received from Future Finance.
Future Finance made an offer of £25 compensation to Mr I. They also effectively credited Mr 
Is account £41.81  the amount of the monthly loan repayment  because when they 
reimbursed the November payment back to Mr I they didnt remove this second payment 
from his account.
In July 2020, Future Finance conducted a review of Mr Is account in which they considered 
several aspects of Mr Is overall complaints with them. This review included aspects that are 
included within the complaint under consideration here  such as the double payment taken 
in November  but also aspects about other complaints with Future Finance that werent 
referred to this service as a part of this complaint.
This has muddied the waters a little, and I have not considered some of the offers made by 
Future Finance to Mr I in their response as being applicable to this complaint. But, from 
correspondence with Future Finance, it is clear that an offer to increase the compensation 
amount to £50 is applicable to this complaint, and Future Finance have confirmed to this 
service that they would like to increase this offer even further to £75.
This means that the restorative action proposed by Future Finance in response to this 
complaint includes an offer of compensation to Mr I of £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience that he has incurred, as well as an effective credit to his account of £41.81 in 
regard to the reimbursed November payment. Future Finance have also acknowledged that 
the level of service provided by their advisors was not to the standard that they would have 
liked, and that additional training will be provided because of this.I think that taken as a whole this is reasonable response to Mr Is complaint and it is 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here. So, Im 
satisfied that a fair outcome has been reached. 
Compensation is always a subjective issue, and I realise that this may not be the outcome 
that Mr I had wanted. But I hope that he can understand, in light of everything I have 
explained here, why I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Future Finance to take any 
further action at this time - beyond that which they have already agreed, as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint but that Future Finance should honour 
the offer of £75 compensation made to Mr I if they have not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman