DRN-3425589
The complaint
Mr B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited unfairly applied a charge when he returned 
a vehicle to it which hed acquired by way of a hire purchase agreement (HP agreement).
What happened
Mr B acquired a three year old car by way of a HP agreement from MotoNovo. The 
agreement was taken out in 2018 and was for 60 months. Mr B exercised his right to 
terminate the agreement early. He did this in August 2020 and NotoNovo arranged for its 
agent (C) to collect the vehicle.
Mr B told MotoNovo that he didnt have a service history book for the car but hed had the 
vehicle serviced by a local garage and he could arrange for the invoices to be given to C. 
He says that on the day the vehicle was collected he gave 12 service invoices to C in a 
folder along with the vehicle MOT certificate and the V5 registration document.
Mr B says that C completed a vehicle inspection report on the date that the vehicle was 
collected. It included details of damage to the car  which he doesnt dispute. It also 
recorded that there was a charge of £300 because there was no service history book. Mr 
B thought this was unfair since he says hed provided evidence to show that the vehicle 
had been serviced regularly. He complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo investigated his complaint. It said it had checked with the auctioneers who had 
sold the vehicle and theyd confirmed there was no service history and no documentation 
relating to a service for the car when it had been sold. MotoNovo said the £300 charge 
was fair but if it was paid within ten days it would be discounted by 10%. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with this response. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought the charge was unfair. He said there 
was nothing expressly stated in the HP agreement to say that regular servicing of the vehicle 
was required and he was persuaded on balance that Mr B had supplied the service receipts 
to C. He thought the charge should be removed.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It supplied further documentation to show that it had told Mr B, 
before the vehicle was collected that thered be a charge of £25 if the service history book 
was missing and a charge of £300 if there wasnt proof of regular servicing in line with the 
manufacturers instructions. It said the agreement had made clear thered be excess 
charges if the vehicle wasnt maintained in line with the manufacturers specifications. Since 
all manufacturers recommended regular servicing, it was fair and reasonable to expect 
proof of that to be provided when the vehicle was returned.
MotoNovo also didnt accept that on balance the service invoices had been provided to C. 
It said it was unlikely the auctioneer would have deliberately ignored these documents if 
they had been provided since they wouldve impacted on the price.
Our investigator considered what MotoNovo said. But he didnt change his view. He 
accepted what Mr B had told him about giving the service invoices to C. He noted that the 
charge for not having the service history book was £25. The £300 fee related to not 
having proof of regular servicing. He thought this had been provided to MotoNovo. So, 
our investigator thought the charge should be reduced from £300 to £25.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said the charge was to reflect loss when the vehicle was sold. 
The vehicle had been sold for much less that what wouldve been expected.
Because MotoNovo didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dispute in this case relates solely to the charge of £300 for the missing 
service history. Mr B has already paid the charges MotoNovo applied for damage 
to the car when it was returned.
Ive looked firstly at the HP agreement Mr B signed when he acquired the car. This 
states as follows:
Excess charges may also apply if you hand the vehicle back in a less than 
reasonable state in keeping with its age and mileage (i.e. where the 
vehicle has not been maintained in line with the manufacturers 
specification).
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has published a Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide which provides an industry-wide accepted standard which 
defines fair wear and tear on cars when they are returned at the end of a finance 
agreement. The Guide also includes information on what documentation drivers 
should be expected to give to the car finance firm when the car is returned.
When considering what documents MotoNovo expected to be given to it when Mr B 
returned his vehicle, I think it is reasonable to look at that expectation in light also of 
what the BVRLA Guide says.
In its letter to Mr B dated 5 August 2020, MotoNovo said it expected Mr B to give 
C certain documents - or else he would incur a charge as follows:
Service History Book £25 
Proof of regular servicing £300
The BVRLA Guide says there is an onus on the driver to have serviced and looked 
after the vehicle according to the manufacturers servicing and maintenance 
schedule. It says all vehicle documentation must be intact and returned with the car 
 including the service record book which should be date stamped as evidence that 
the services have taken place. If the service record is kept electronically then the 
driver should produce evidence of servicing and maintenance  such as hard 
copies of the service record or invoices clearly showing the date, mileage reading, 
and the repairer or service agents stamp. The BVRLA Guide says that drivers 
should expect charges if there is no evidence that the vehicle has been serviced 
and maintained according to the vehicle manufacturers guidelines.Having considered the terms of the HP agreement and the information in the 
BVRLA Guide I think MotoNovo acted fairly and reasonably when it asked Mr B to 
provide the service history record book (duly stamped) and the proof of regular 
servicing.
Mr B acknowledges that he didnt have the stamped service record book. But, he 
says he did give C 12 invoices as proof that the car had been regularly serviced. 
MotoNovo says these documents were not given to the auctioneer  so it says its 
unlikely that the documents were given to C.
Ive thought about what MotoNovo has said here. Ive also looked at the collection 
inspection document completed by C on the date the car was collected.
It says that there was a missing service history fee of £300 to be charged but it also  
records:
 Service History Present: Yes
I asked Mr B to provide copies of the invoices he says he gave to C. He wasnt 
immediately able to provide these to us  although his garage has now sent them to 
us. I can see that the invoices show the vehicle was regularly serviced in the period 
2018/2019. The first invoice shows a service being carried out shortly after the 
vehicle was delivered to Mr B. There are further invoices showing servicing and 
regular repairs/maintenance to the vehicle from that time. The last invoice is dated 
September 2019. Theres no evidence of any service history after that date. I can 
see the vehicle passed its MOT check in December 2019.
Having looked at the invoices Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr B has provided 
evidence he did have the vehicle regularly serviced. The record made by C when it 
collected the vehicle is that the service history was present. Mr Bs referred to a 
folder of documents which he says he handed to C. So, Im persuaded that Mr B 
did give C a number of documents to show that the vehicle had been regularly 
serviced.
Having considered everything here, I currently dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo to apply its charge of £300 for the missing service 
history.
Ive then thought about what our investigator said concerning the fee of £25 for the 
missing service history book. Whilst I agree that that charge couldve been fairly 
applied by MotoNovo at the time, it chose not to apply it. Its not clear why it made 
that decision. But, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to allow it to apply that charge now.
Ive also considered the inconvenience Mr B has experienced as a result of what 
happened here. Hes had to escalate his complaint to our service. Hes also had to 
go to the trouble of getting further copies of invoices to show that he had the 
vehicle regularly serviced. I think its fair and reasonable to require MotoNovo to 
pay him £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited. I intend to require it to:Remove the charge of £300 which it applied for the absence of proof 
of regular servicing;
Remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference 
agencies about Mr Bs failure to pay the charge of £300; and
Pay Mr B £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of what happened.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. He said the compensation should be paid to a 
charitable organisation as this had only ever been a matter of principle for him.
MotoNovo responded to my provisional decision. It asked for copies of the service invoices. 
It said it needed to ensure that these invoices would meet its criteria. Our service supplied 
copies of the service invoices to MotoNovo. We asked MotoNovo if it had any further 
comments to make. It said it had no further comments.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. MotoNovo says it has no further comments to make.
In these circumstances, I have no reason to change my view about how this complaint 
should be resolved. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr B has told us about wanting any compensation to be paid to a charitable 
organisation. If Mr B wants to do that, he can do so privately - after the compensation is paid 
to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited. I now 
require it to:
Remove the charge of £300 which it applied for the absence of proof 
of regular servicing;
Remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference 
agencies about Mr Bs failure to pay the charge of £300; and
Pay Mr B £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman