DRN-3879052
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Steadypay Limited took a £170 loan repayment from her current 
account which left her in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss M failed to make a loan repayment in March 2022. She then did promise to make the 
full payment on 1 April 2022 but once again failed to do so. Steadypay was trying to make 
contact with her throughout this period and on Thursday 28 April 2022 it advised her that, as 
she had breached the repayment agreement, the full amount of £432 plus missed 
subscription payments was now due. 
Miss M did then respond the same day to say that she would like to arrange a payment plan 
of £10 per month. There was then some negotiation back and forth trying to reach an 
agreement that both parties found acceptable, but nothing was firmed up at that point. As 
Miss M was saying she was in financial hardship, Steadypay asked her to fill out a budget 
form and said that it would review the case within two days of receiving it back. Miss M 
completed the form on Saturday 30 April 2022. 
Miss M had a continuous payment authority set up with Steadypay, which meant that it 
would automatically attempt debit card payments on pre-arranged dates. If a payment failed, 
Steadypay had the right to keep re-attempting the payment at a later date. As such, a 
payment of £170 was first attempted on 1 May 2022 and eventually successful on 3 May 
2022.
Miss M was unhappy that the payment was taken after she had contacted Steadypay to 
explain her situation and to set up a payment plan. She says she was left with only £50 for 
the rest of the month and would be unable to feed her baby.
When she contacted Steadypay to ask for a refund of the £170, it said it was unable to do so 
as that was essentially akin to providing her with more credit, which it would be irresponsible 
to do as she was still in arrears.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Steadypay should pay £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Steadypay disagrees with the investigators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Steadypay says the issue has arisen due to a lack of communication from Miss M and bad 
timing. So ideally Miss M should have fully engaged with it from when it first started trying to 
contact her in March 2022. Because she only contacted them on 28 April 2022 and nothing 
was finally decided on that day, there was no opportunity to stop the automated payment 
that was due to happen a couple of days later.
I accept that Miss Ms behaviour didnt help matters. Although Im not sure she would have 
appreciated the significance of the timing, as she was expecting to reach some sort of 
resolution for her problems on 28 April 2022.
Steadypay said in its final response letter that it was unfortunate that the automated 
collection had gone ahead and that it resulted in inconvenience to Miss M. So it seems to 
agree that it was a regrettable situation that led to Miss M being in difficulty, although it 
doesnt feel that it is responsible for it.
Although Miss M could have acted sooner, it was the case that she contacted Steadypay on 
28 April 2022 to explain that she was not in a position to make the contractual payments. I 
appreciate the timing wasnt ideal and that no new repayment plan was locked in at that 
point. But, given that Steadypay had been made aware of Miss Ms circumstances, it was 
unfair of it to then attempt to collect the full payment from her shortly afterwards.
I understand that it was an automated system which Steadypay says was too late to make 
changes to at that point.  It has said that it didnt expect the collection to be successful 
anyway as Miss M had said that she had no available funds.
Steadypays reason for not refunding the £170 was that it didnt want to increase her level of 
indebtedness. But as it hadnt been expecting the payment to go through, providing a refund 
would have simply left Miss M with the same level of arrears as it expected her to be in and 
that she had been in only a few of days previously.
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Steadypay gave serious 
consideration to providing a refund and the consequences of not doing so. Because it did not 
refund the £170, Miss M was left in severe financial difficulty, worrying about how she was 
going to cope for the rest of the month and provide for her child.
Ive thought carefully about what Steadypay has said and take its point that the situation 
could have been prevented if Miss M had contacted it sooner. However, on balance, I 
consider that Steadypay should have either stopped the automated collection or refunded 
the £170 once it did go through, in the interests of treating Miss M fairly.
Its not in dispute that Miss M was put in a very difficult situation. I agree with our investigator 
that £200 is a reasonable amount to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Putting things right
Steadypay should pay compensation of £200. As this award is for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss M, it should be paid directly to her rather than being used to 
reduce the balance of her account.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I uphold the complaint and require Steadypay Limited to pay Miss M 
£200 for distress and inconvenience as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman