DRN-4295143
The complaint
Mr S complains about matters associated with his pensions with Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(Zurich).
What happened
Mr S said he had two personal pensions with Zurich. He had received policy information 
listing a company as his financial advisers that he did not recognise. He had not been 
contacted by them, didnt know anything about them nor how they selected their advisers. 
He trusted Zurich but knew nothing about Openwork and wasnt told when they took over. 
He hadnt been told how Openwork would use his data. He felt he couldnt trust them in the 
way he could trust Zurich. There were no new terms and conditions but he was paying them 
commission. His fund value had dropped by about £6,500.  He was also unhappy his annual 
statement did not have numbered pages.
Zurich said Mr S complained about poor service from Zurich and lack of contact from their 
financial adviser. It said that when he took out his plan it was sold by a company that is now 
part of the Zurich Advice Network which became Openwork Limited. Openwork were now 
independent of Zurich. The individual who gave the advice had left but a new adviser had 
taken their place. Some original papers had explained that if an adviser left a new one would 
be appointed. As the advisers were no longer part of Zurich it had no control of them and he 
needed to contact them direct. It confirmed that they were copied into correspondence sent 
to him. 
With respect to his complaint about the annual statements it apologised that the servicing 
name was listed twice and noted his complaint about the absence of numbered pages. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr S had two policies. They had 
seen copy statements from 2021 and 2022. While the pages werent numbered it wasnt for 
this service to tell Zurich how to run its business but they didnt think the statements were 
unclear or misleading. The statements also said a copy had been sent to another company 
with details of their address and telephone number. This should have been enough for Mr S 
to check that they were on the financial regulators register. He said that Mr Ss policies were 
opened with Allied Dunbar but this company was taken over by Zurich. In 2005 the advice 
aspects were taken over by a new company part owned by Zurich. In 2020 Zurich stopped 
owing any part of the network but the advice aspects continued to be provided. 
Mr S wasnt happy that he wasnt informed of the changes to the adviser. But Zurichs 1998 
data protection leaflet said it would pass his details to a new adviser if his adviser was ill or, 
stopped being his adviser. The leaflet didnt say they would notify him each time an adviser 
changed. He had also seen copies of what would have been sent out when the new network 
took over in 2005. As it was so long ago he didnt expect Mr S to remember receiving it. But 
if Mr S was unhappy with the adviser he needed to raise complaints with them about their 
actions. The advisers were a separate legal entity and he needed to raise a separate 
complaint with that company as Zurich was not responsible for them.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt recall receiving any notification about the move to Openwork. He 
also wanted Zurich to include more information on its annual statements. He said the original 
adviser was free but now it seemed he had to pay. The investigator said the statements 
didnt list any payment to the Financial advisers just plan charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of this service is to help resolve complaints.
Mr S has mentioned a large number of issues.
Some of these were covered in the original complaint and some are new or expanded. 
I asked Mr S a number of questions as I wanted to be certain I had understood his points. 
He said he felt pressured to answer. He needed time to reflect and think. I am sorry if Mr S 
felt under pressure that was certainly not my intention. I wanted to make sure I had 
understood the points he wanted to make. I am very grateful for the time he took to provide 
answers and have listened to the telephone messages he left setting these out. 
Which Zurich company is party to this complaint?
Mr S questioned whether the correct company was party to this complaint. He referred to a 
company he called Zurich plc rather than Zurich Assurance Ltd. There are a number of 
companies in the Zurich group. This complaint is against Zurich Assurance Ltd. This is the 
name of the company that appears on his yearly pension statements.
Based on the evidence, I think it is reasonable to believe it is the correct party to this 
complaint and Zurich has not disputed this. 
What is Advice
Mr S referred to a letter from 2023 in which Zurich asks to be notified if his plans have 
changed and if he intends to retire early or later. Mr S said the letters included statements, 
options, guidance and information to help him understand. He regarded all of these as 
advice. 
I can understand why he would say that. If it assists him further the financial regulator has 
considered the difference between advice and guidance.  It has suggested that 
Advice - is a service which recommends a specific course of action based on the consumers 
individual circumstances and goals.
Guidance-  provides information and/or options to narrow down the consumers choices, 
without making an explicit recommendation.
Advice can only be provided by a regulated individual or firm but guidance is provided by a 
wide range of individuals and organisations which may or may not be regulated.
Based on the evidence, I think Zurich has provided information and guidance but has not 
provided advice.
Drawdown
Mr S said that Zurich indicated it could not  provide drawdown. He said this was in the original policy and he had not been informed of this change. He thought he should have 
been told and Zurich couldnt  just say it is a business decision and refuse to allow it.
I obtained a copy of Allied Dunbar Policy Provisions. The Options at retirement were a) to 
take a level annuity or b) a unit linked pension or c) an open market option (which is to take 
the fund to a new provider) and the ability to commute part of the pension. 
Mr S said he wasnt contesting his right to drawdown just that he had the option. 
He questioned whether there were changes to terms and conditions when Allied Dunbar 
were taken over by Zurich. He questioned whether the open market option referred to the 
drawdown option. But he didnt like this as he said he would want to know who his pension 
was being transferred to and feared pension scams. 
Unless the policy terms included the options of drawdown such an option is not automatically 
available to Mr S.  Zurich were not required to amend the policy terms to enable this. Zurich 
has not indicated that it changed the policy terms in this respect when it took over.
Based on the evidence it does not seem that this option was ever available to Mr S.
Financial Adviser
Mr S also referred to the company name of the financial adviser that is listed on his yearly 
statement. He said his financial adviser is not listed as a limited company but seemed to be 
listed as an appointed representative of a network. I agree that this appears to be the case 
based on the papers I have seen.
Mr S said he had spoken to his financial adviser and gave the name of an individual he had 
spoken to. He complained there had not been a letter of introduction and he asked the 
adviser for its data protection policy. He said this was sent to him in August this year. This 
was the first communication he had received from the Financial Adviser that was now linked 
to his pension. It had taken until September this year to provide a letter of introduction. But 
he still did not know what their designation was as ltd company or otherwise. 
He said he did not want to remove them as his adviser. He didnt think it was a good step to 
have no adviser listed. So for now he was going to leave it with the current adviser, 
particularly as he was coming up to retirement. 
Mr S said that when he took out the plan all correspondence listed the name of the adviser. 
Now the papers just referred to a company and not an individual. He did not know the new 
business and said he was not told of the change in adviser in around 2005 . 
I do understand Mr Ss position on this and the ability to contact a named individual and as 
he says, track where his personal information is going and with whom it is being shared. But 
this service cannot tell Zurich that it must list a named individual in addition to providing the 
name and some contact details of the business that is now listed as his financial adviser.
I understand that Mr S has now made contact and does not wish to remove the adviser at 
this time. While I can understand Mr S would like the individual adviser to be named I cannot 
direct Zurich to do that. Further as the adviser is not party to this complaint I cannot consider 
any complaints he has about that adviser.
Fees for financial advice
Mr S said the original advice given to take out the Allied Dunbar policy was free. There were no charges for setting up the policy and there was never any charges shown on the 
paperwork. 
While Mr S may not have been explicitly charged at the outset I cannot see that the policy 
documents suggest he has a right to free financial advice. As he says the yearly review does 
contain a statement suggesting that he would need to pay for future financial advice. Based 
on my experience and on the information presented on balance I cannot reasonably 
conclude that he was entitled to free financial advice.
Mr S agreed that the yearly statements did not show any payments being made to the 
financial adviser. But he referred to the requirements of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 
which said these fees should be put on paper in a clearer form. The statement lists the 
monthly and daily costs of running the plan but there is no section where the customer has 
to pay the adviser and the money is sent back to them. The RDR was to make things clearer 
so that the fees were split out and easily accounted for. 
Zurich said that in this policy ongoing renewal commission was earned for each premium 
contribution received after an initial period. As the last contribution made was in 1993 no 
renewal commission had been paid since then. In relation to the RDR it said that the new 
requirements were clear that after its introduction any fees would need to be agreed 
between the adviser and client. Advice given post-RDR would be charged by an adviser as 
part of an external fee agreement where necessary and Zurich would hold no control or 
oversight on this. 
I think this reasonably explains why Mr S has not seen any further disclosures under the 
RDR requirements.
Allowance for advice
Mr S refers to the existence of a £500 allowance for financial advice. He said it was referred 
to in Pension Wise and other pension leaflets. The information was not dependent on being 
provided by an IFA and is in the handbooks and was  government policy. 
I note what he says but in any event it was clear that Mr S is now aware that the allowance 
existed. 
Yearly statement
Mr S complained that there were no page numbers on his statement and that it didnt contain 
all the information he wanted. I can understand that this was frustrating for Mr S but I cannot 
say that Zurich has done anything wrong by failing to number the pages of his statement. It 
is a business decision for Zurich whether to do this and I cannot direct it to do so. 
With respect to the further information that Mr S said he wanted it to contain again I dont 
think Zurich did anything wrong and I cannot direct it as to the content it should include. 
Data protection
Mr S said he was concerned that his adviser could pass his information around its business 
and other companies. Everything was being copied to them but there was no named person. 
The latest information showed two named people. He said the control of information is 
guided by the Information Commissioner and his information was being sent by post with 
different names attached. He felt this made tracing who had his information much harder. 
I have seen a sample copy of a letter sent when Zurich Financial Adviser became Openwork which it said was in 2005. This refers to a data protection leaflet which explains how it will 
hold and use his information. This includes sharing his information with advisers. So it 
seems to be acting in accordance with its policy.
In summary I do understand Mr Ss frustrations about the various issues he has raised. But 
based on the information that I have seen I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman