DRN-4416045
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by a third party, complains that Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) irresponsibly gave him a credit card account he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A applied for and was granted a credit card account with 
Nationwide with a credit limit of £10,100. In March 2020 he was granted a credit limit 
increase to £11,100. 
Mr A started getting into difficulty with meeting his monthly card repayments in mid-2020  
and then again early 2021. The account went into default in February 2023.
Mr A complained to Nationwide, saying that he shouldnt have been given the account 
and that Nationwide ought to have made a better effort to understand his financial 
circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Since Mr A didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr As complaint is that Nationwide provided him with a level of credit that was unaffordable 
at the outset and then went on to increase his credit limit further. Nationwide has explained it 
carried out a credit check using the information Mr A provided on his application as well as 
information obtained from a credit reference agency to see how he was managing his 
existing credit. It was then able to work out what credit it was able to offer. 
Ive seen that from what Mr A told Nationwide at the time of his application, he was in a 
particular occupation and was recorded as having an annual salary of £36,240. This would 
normally equate to a monthly net income of around £2,300. His residential status was that of 
a private rent-paying tenant. From the credit check it carried out Nationwide also would have 
seen that Mr A had a good recent credit history. 
Mr A has recently told us that hed hadnt been working since 2016, that all of his income 
was benefits-based and that he was receiving help with his monthly rental costs from the 
local authority. Our investigator at first thought that around half of Mr As income came from 
earnings. This was understandable given what Mr A had said in his original application 
alongside the credit check information available to Nationwide. I agree that the position was 
not entirely clear. It would have been possible for Nationwide to know more about Mr As 
financial situation at the time given that he was already banking with them. If it had checked, 
it would have seen that his actual income position was different to that set out in his 
application. I would say this was particularly relevant given the size of the credit it was 
proposing to grant Mr A. So I think Nationwide could have carried out better overall checks 
before granting the credit. 
I think that better checks may have raised a concern about Mr As future ability to 
sustainably maintain what could amount to substantial monthly repayments of up to £5-600, 
were Mr A to use most or all of his initial credit limit and the later increase of another £1,000. 
His reliance on benefit income suggests a potential issue about Mr As future financial 
stability which I think ought to have prompted Nationwide to find out more about Mr As 
personal situation. Better and more proportionate checks would have enabled Nationwide to 
gain a more thorough understanding of Mr As personal financial circumstances before 
agreeing to open the account and so allow Mr A immediate access to what was a substantial 
amount of credit. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
Weve seen from Mr As bank statements that he was managing his income and outgoings to 
his bank account relatively well in the five months before the account was opened and did 
not have the need to make use of an overdraft facility. It was correct to say that Mr A had an 
average monthly income of around £2,000, which was broadly consistent with the 
information Nationwide had relied on when accepting him for the card. 
Having kept all this in mind when reviewing Mr As monthly spending, including his 
household costs, I agree that Mr A was likely to have been left with enough disposable 
income each month in order to meet the monthly card repayments in a sustainable way. I 
say this having seen that aside from his monthly rental payment of around £1,200, Mr As 
regular monthly costs were in the main travel and food costs. So, in the event that he was to 
use the full extent of his opening credit this looks to have been affordable. 
I havent seen evidence or information to show or suggest that Mr As financial 
circumstances had materially changed when his credit limit was increased by £1,000 in 
March 2020. I say this having also noted that since having the card, Mr A had been keeping 
his bank balance in credit throughout this period which enough disposable income to meet 
his card repayments plus his food and housing costs. 
I think all this demonstrates that at the time Mr A appears to have had enough disposable 
income available each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards his new 
credit facility and the later credit limit increase. I say this factoring in that he would need to 
be able to make sustainable monthly repayments on his card in order to be able to reduce 
the full balance within a reasonable period of time. Had Nationwide therefore completed 
proportionate checks before granting the credit, I think its likely it would have discovered this 
too. It therefore didnt act unfairly by opening the account for Mr A with the level of credit it 
granted him.
Having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont think Ive seen 
enough to show or suggest that Mr As card agreement with Nationwide was unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide ought to have known he might struggle to 
make the repayments  either at the point it granted him the card or when it went on to 
increase his credit limit. Im therefore not persuaded that Nationwide has acted unfairly or 
irresponsibly. 
I know this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr A and his representative. But I would like 
to reassure them that I have fully considered everything theyve told us, including the 
additional details theyve provided more recently, to see what if any impact it may have on 
the outcome of his complaint. 
It follows that I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything more to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman