DRN-1838416
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her husband, Mr B, complains that Close Brothers Limited 
refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs B acquired a car costing £3,995 funded by a deposit of £500 and the 
balance with a conditional sale agreement It was some nine years old and had done 62,000 
miles. Shortly after acquisition the car wouldnt start and when it did it would judder. The car 
was repaired by the dealer and the timing belt and clutch were replaced.
On its return to Mrs B the car became difficult to start and a cloud of smoke emitted from the 
exhaust. Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection. The inspector concluded 
the repairs which had been carried out by the dealer were not connected with the more 
recent faults. He also said he that the latest faults which he thought were to the turbo deals, 
were unlikely to have been present at the point of sale.
Close Brothers rejected Mrs Bs complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who initially didnt recommend it be upheld, but 
subsequently changed his mind after having been given further evidence.
It was established that the car had a full service history and that the price reflected that. Mr B 
pointed our that the second fault had occurred some two weeks after the first and there was 
no basis to say one had been present at the point of sale but the other hadnt.
Our investigator concluded that Mrs B had acquired a car with a service history and had the 
expectation that it would be fit for purpose. He thought the latest fault most likely lay with the 
turbocharges and seals which should have lasted for around 100,000 miles. He also noted 
that the independent report concentrated on whether the original repairs had been 
successful and less on the turbocharge issue. 
The business didnt agree and pointed out the independent inspector who had seen the car 
had concluded the turbocharge problem most likely hadnt been present at the point of sale. 
The smoking didnt appear until four months after the sale and over 3,000 miles had been 
covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers Limited is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was relatively elderly but had covered a lower than average number of miles. 
Nevertheless, it is to be expected that it would be suffering from wear and tear issues. For 
example, some components will have a life span which is shorter than the rest of the car. A 
most obvious example would be tyres. 
In this case it is accepted by all that the original fault which led to the timing belt and clutch 
being replaced was present at the point of sale. The second fault with the turbocharger and 
seal occurred a couple of weeks after the repair and it seems odd that this is being disputed 
as not having been present at the point of sale.
This view seems to come from the report of the independent inspector who was looking at 
the original repairs, but also commented on the turbocharger problem. He said he couldnt 
say with any accuracy what the cause of the fault was without further investigation. However, 
he noted that the car had done 3,400 miles since acquisition and he thought this indicated 
the fault hadnt been present at the time of sale. 
I can appreciate that analysis and I am loathe to disagree with an independent inspector, but 
I have to consider the issue of durability. The car was sold with a service history  Mr B has 
supplied the details of that. Mrs B also paid a price which reflected a car in good condition 
for its age and with a full service history. While I appreciate the points made by the business 
about the expected life of components and that these were only guidelines I do think Mrs B 
had reasonable expectation that such a key part would last longer than it did.
The car had been serviced and I have  seen no evidence that there were any grounds to link 
there had been use of it that would lead to such an early failure. The turbocharger and seal 
are expected to last around 100,000 miles and these apparently failed some 35,000 miles 
short of that. That is a significant difference and pushes me towards upholding this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I accept this is a finely balanced matter, but I dont believe the business has established to 
my satisfaction that the fault wasnt present at the point of sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers Limited to:End the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no further cost to 
Mrs B.
Refund any payments made covering the period up to 26 December 2019 when the 
car became undrivable, plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid to the date of 
settlement).
Refund the deposit paid of £500.00 (plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid to 
the date of settlement).
Remove adverse entries relating to this agreement on Mrs Bs credit file.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman