DRN-3999571
The complaint
Mr G complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon hasnt applied charges to his 
policy in line with certain communications over the years and an agreement made in 2009.  
What happened
Mr G has invested in a personal pension policy with Aegon since about 1996. The pension 
was subject to various charges, which were set out in a policy booklet. Those included a 
paid up/discontinuance charge (sometimes referred to as an additional charge); a specific 
member charge and an annual management charge - a 1% charge deducted from fund 
prices before they were published. 
In 2002 Aegon carried out a restructuring exercise. That exercise included reviewing the 
fees associated with Mr Gs policy. In a letter sent in August 2002, Aegon told Mr G that the 
only charge applicable is a 1% charge. 
Mr G contacted this Service in 2006 about issues to do with the additional charges. It also 
seems he was concerned about Aegons delays in sorting out the problems. We referred that 
complaint on to Aegon to deal with. In a response dated 11 October 2006, Aegon 
acknowledged there had been some administrative issues concerning the additional charges 
on Mr Gs policy. But as it didnt know when the problem would be resolved, it agreed to 
waive those charges. This was on the understanding that Mr Gs policy remained in force 
with Aegon for the full term. It said please also note that the standard charges will still be 
deducted. This concession is only for the additional charge. It apologised to Mr G for the 
problems hed experienced and offered £100 compensation as a goodwill gesture.
In November 2006, Aegon said that in order to remove the additional charges, it had to 
remove the specific member charge at the same time, so it was in the process of doing that. 
It confirmed that, at no point, now or in the future, will we deduct from your fund a 
discontinuance charge. It said it was in the process of arranging to pay the £100 goodwill 
payment to Mr Gs charity of choice.  
In January 2007 Aegon gave Mr G an update about when he might expect to receive his 
annual benefit statements. It explained the charging structure that applied to Mr Gs policy. 
And, due to the policy restructure and decision not to apply the discontinuance charges, it 
said the only annual charge that the policy would incur going forward would be the specific 
member charge.
In response to Aegons confirmation, Mr G said I also appreciate your explanation of the 
charges and I understand that the SMC will be the only annual charge incurred, whether 
regular premiums are paid or not.
However, in May 2008, Aegon inadvertently included Mr Gs policy in an exercise to claim 
missed paid up charges when it shouldnt have done. Mr G complained to this Service in 
September 2008 about the fact that further deductions had been made despite Aegons 
previous communication. We also referred that complaint on to Aegon.
Mr G complained to us again having received Aegons response. However, we decided 
around December 2008, that the matter was more appropriate for another body to deal with. 
So, we passed the complaint on. And it seems it was that bodys involvement and 
engagement with Aegon that prompted a complaint response from Aegon in April 2009. 
In a letter dated 22 April 2009, Aegon confirmed that the paid up charges had been 
removed in line with the undertaking given to Mr G in 2006. It also recognised that Mr Gs 
policy shouldnt have been included in the 2008 exercise. It added its always our intention 
to ensure that our clients suffer no financial loss as a result of any errors we make. In 
removing these charges once more Im satisfied that, having put you back into the position 
you were in after our 2006 agreement, this is now the case. It said it had indicated to the 
third party involved in looking into the complaint that it was willing to offer an additional £150 
compensation payment for the inconvenience caused. It was also confident there would be 
no more administrative issues in future. 
Mr G suggested everything was going fairly smoothly up to and including a yearly statement 
Aegon sent in 2016. He didnt receive statements between 2017 and 2019 inclusive. And 
when he received a statement in 2020, he noticed that units had been deducted incorrectly. 
Mr G asked Aegon for the missing statements. He eventually received those and was able to 
identify when units had been deducted in error. He contacted Aegon about his concerns. 
In a response sent in July 2020, Aegon said it couldnt evidence it had made a mistake. But 
it said it was clear that Mr G had received a poor service, especially in the time taken to 
address Mr Gs concerns. It apologised and offered a further compensation payment of 
£250. 
Mr G raised further points with Aegons complaints department in August 2020. He said that 
all Aegon had done recently was reapply the charges that were removed under the 
settlement agreed by [named Aegon employee] only this time, without telling me. Mr G 
thought Aegon had failed dramatically to deliver on its promise that hed see an 
improvement in the service he received. 
Aegon responded to the complaint in September 2020. In short, it said it was satisfied that 
Mr Gs policy was now correct. It explained that, having agreed to remove any additional  
charges in 2006, the specific member charges should have continued. But, due to another 
error involving the additional charges (which it had to correct in 2009) it had to also remove 
the specific member charges at the same time, so that it could make the necessary 
corrections to the additional charges. But it forgot to reapply the specific member charges. 
And it hadnt done that until around 2016/17 (it seems these dated back to a period from 
many years before). It apologised that it didnt tell Mr G about this when the corrections were 
made. And whilst it was satisfied it had issued statements in 2017 and 2018, it hadnt done 
so in 2019 due to a system error. Aegon offered an additional £100 compensation on top of 
the £250 it offered in its July 2020 response. 
Mr G complained to this Service in late October 2020. He described the problems hed 
experienced going back many years. He said that, more recently hed found out about 
charges that were applied to his policy without Aegon telling him. Mr G said he couldnt 
accept that errors could be identified in 2016 dating back to about 2004 and that these funds 
could be amended by the surreptitious application of backdated adjustments. As far as Mr 
G was concerned, given Aegons assurances if they have indeed made these errors, then 
over a decade later, this is a matter that they are going to have to live with. Mr G felt that 
Aegons actions were in serious breach of good faith. And he didnt accept that it could 
ignore or re-write the 2009 agreement. Mr G indicated that the resolution he was seeking 
was the implementation of the 2009 settlement and his policy being restored to the position it 
was in as per the 2016 statement. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said what matters is whether Aegon  
had applied charges correctly. And, where a provider had incorrectly charged too little in 
fees, we wouldnt normally recommend that would stand as it would effectively place the 
consumer in a better position. He added: There was no question that Aegon had agreed to remove the paid-up charges from 
the policy. 
He was satisfied that the specific member charges were due to be applied from 2006 
at least  although he thought it was less clear whether they should continue after 
that. That said, in 2007, Aegon didnt say anything about the specific member 
charges only applying in 2006, which tended to suggest they should have continued 
thereafter.
Although the main issue in this case was whether the charges should have been 
applied at all, rather than how they had been calculated, hed looked into the 
workings of the specific member charges applied and had identified some potential 
anomalies. 
In summing up, the investigator appeared satisfied that the policy had been returned 
to the position it should have been in. And whilst he understood why Mr G thought 
Aegon had mistakenly reapplied charges in 2016/17 as it did in 2008, he clarified that 
the charges added in 2016/17 were correctly applied and the policy position seemed 
consistent with the original adjustments made in 2006. The investigator thought the 
total compensation that Aegon offered - £350 - was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr G provided further comments and our investigator agreed to follow up additional points. 
Aegon confirmed it removed the specific member charges in order to correct others, but 
mistakenly set the specific member charges for 2007 to 2011 to zero. That prompted the 
investigator to ask Aegon to confirm whether it would look to reapply those charges in future. 
It said it wouldnt. 
The investigator sent an updated assessment. In response to a question about an annual 
management charge, he said that isnt shown in the transactions because its deducted 
within the fund and is therefore included in the unit price. Despite what Mr G thought, the 
investigator didnt think that by reapplying the specific member charges more recently, 
Aegon had contravened the 2009 agreement  as that agreement was only intended to 
cover the paid up charges. In any event, the investigator thought Mr G was probably in a 
better position than expected on the basis that Aegon hadnt applied any specific member 
charges between 2007 and 2011. The investigator remained of the opinion that Aegon 
initially removed the specific member charges in error, so was right to reapply them for the 
period in question. And he thought the compensation payment Aegon offered was fair.  
Mr G felt that Aegons failure to apply the specific member charges between 2007 and 2011 
was more likely due to some other policy restructure as opposed to any concession on 
Aegons part. He maintained that Aegon wasnt honouring the 2009 agreement and felt that 
this Service was paying insufficient attention to it. The investigator said that to ask Aegon to 
honour the implementation of the 2009 agreement by again removing the specific member 
charges (when that wasnt agreed in 2009) would put Mr G in a better position. He also felt 
other points Mr G raised were new and separate to his complaint about Aegon reapplying 
charges in 2016/17 relating to an earlier period. 
Mr G said that after years of abysmal service, he wanted to sort out the issues once and for 
all. The investigator raised additional questions with Aegon on Mr Gs behalf. Mr G had 
some concerns about the way the annual management charge was presented. That said he 
appeared to accept that Aegon changed how it did things from about 2013 onwards meaning 
that a breakdown of yearly charges could be requested if needed.
In an email dated 29 July 2022, Mr G provided further detailed comments. He didnt agree 
that Aegons compensation offer of £350 was fair. He also thought confirmation he was 
given in 2007 (that the only charge to apply would be the specific member charge) was 
probably inconsistent with a letter he received in 2002 concerning charges to be applied following a policy restructure. And he thought the annual management charge was probably 
also contrary to what Aegon told him in 2007. 
Our investigator asked Aegon to confirm (based on further comments from Mr G) what the 
1% charge being applied was. Aegon felt that new issues had been raised too late  and 
especially as Mr G would have been aware more than three years before of the charges that 
applied  especially as hed complained about charges in 2006 and 2008. So, it didnt think it 
was appropriate for it to set up complaints about these issues. It agreed to this Service 
looking into those issues if we were satisfied theyd been made in time for the purposes of 
our rules.
Another investigator took over Mr Gs complaint. He also felt that issues to do with a 2002 
restructure  and specifically Mr Gs suggestion that what happened since wasnt consistent 
with the restructure  had been made too late. He felt Mr G ought to have known that he had 
cause to complain by 2011 at the latest (within three years of 2008 when he made another 
complaint about charges). But Mr G hadnt raised that issue until 2022. As far as the annual 
management charge was concerned - and whether that too was inconsistent with an email 
Aegon sent in 2007 saying the only charge your policy will incur is the specific member 
charge - the investigator explained that the annual management charge is a fund charge 
rather than a policy charge, as illustrated in the policy booklet previously sent to Mr G. And 
its something that is built into the fund price and added daily by the fund manager. The 
investigator didnt think Aegon would be in a position to remove this charge and he didnt 
uphold this part of the complaint. He also noted the previous investigator thought the £350 
compensation offered was fair. 
Mr G thought the investigators comments concerning a previous complaint to this Service in 
2008 were made out of context. In any event, he didnt think there was any benefit 
continuing the exchanges, so he said he expected his original complaint and responses to 
be put to an Ombudsman. The matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The context within which Ive considered this complaint
The issues in this case span many years.  Not surprisingly, there have been a number of 
exchanges between Mr G and Aegon during that time. And Aegon has issued a number of 
different responses, including to explain corrective action it has taken, or simply to give Mr G 
assurances about the way forward. Sadly for Mr G, he hasnt always been able to rely on 
those assurances because other issues have come to light. Understandably, he felt the need 
to complain to this Service again. Given the length of time that the issues have been going 
on and the number of errors that have occurred, I can appreciate why Mr G might now think 
we should sort out the issues once and for all.
But, its not for us to carry out a full-scale review of all of the interaction that a consumer may 
have had with a financial business. Or consider new issues that arise at a later date that are 
distinct from those already brought to us. I can see that our investigator commented on 
issues to do with how the specific member charges were made up. And in raising issues with 
Aegon on Mr Gs behalf, hes since been able to facilitate Mr G contacting Aegon directly. I 
wont be commenting on those issues in this decision. Instead, Ill address what I see as 
being at the heart of Mr Gs original complaint.  I can see that theres also been some debate between Mr G and our investigator about the 
definition of his complaint. And Mr G set out, in his own words, what he thought a more 
accurate definition should be. However, as the investigation progressed, Mr G seemed to 
accept the broader definition that our investigator came up with. For clarity, based on the 
matters Ive addressed within this decision, Ive included my own definition of the complaint  
although it broadly covers both Mr G and the investigators descriptions. 
Our investigator didnt think all aspects of Mr Gs complaint fell within our remit to consider. 
Specifically, he felt a complaint about an inconsistency in terms of charges applied from 
2007 onwards compared to what were set out in a letter in 2002 had probably been made 
too late. So, I first need to decide whether we have the authority to deal with everything Mr G 
has complained about.
Can we look at all of Mr Gs complaint? 
Our Service isnt able to look into every complaint made to us. The rules that we must follow 
are set out in the Dispute Resolution Section (DISP) of the FCA handbook. DISP 2.8 refers 
to the timeframes within which complaints need to be made to this Service.
I think the part of the rule that applies here is DISP 2.8.2, which says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received;
unless:
 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Aegon told Mr G from at least 2007 that the only charge to be applied to his policy going 
forward would be the specific member charge. But Mr G now believes that position is 
inconsistent with a letter Aegon sent him in 2002. The 2002 letter said that, following a policy 
restructure, the only charge to be applied was a 1% charge. 
Theres nothing to say that Mr G didnt receive the 2002 letter at the time it was sent. So, if 
he felt that Aegon had applied charges unfairly or inconsistently in the years that followed, in 
order to comply with DISP 2.8.2 (2)(a) above, hed need to have complained about that 
specific matter within six years. I haven't seen any evidence to show that Mr G did that. So, 
he hasnt satisfied the first part of the test that I must apply.
I next have to think about when Mr G became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, of a cause for complaint. Thats because I need to decide whether hes made a 
complaint within three years of that point to satisfy the second part of the test.
Its not entirely clear whether Aegons responses from 2007 onwards were meant to 
supersede the information it gave Mr G in 2002. Or it may have been talking about completely different things. But whatever the intention, I think the 2007 letter at least gave 
the impression that Aegons position had shifted. So, if Mr G thought the 2007 messages 
were inconsistent with what Aegon told him in 2002, I think he had three years from that 
point to make a complaint about it  or certainly from 2008 when he made a different 
complaint about charges. I note Mr Gs point that our investigator mentioned his 2008 
complaint out of context. I appreciate that Mr Gs complaint in 2008 was about deductions 
having been applied despite an earlier agreement. But the fact is that Mr G was clearly 
scrutinising his statements at that time. So, if he thought that the activity and charges on his 
account were not only contrary to an agreement in 2006 but were also inconsistent with a 
message he was given in 2002, then I think this was another opportunity to raise it.
Mr Gs suggested that he probably didnt notice the issue sooner because he was busy 
doing a demanding job and was already embroiled in a struggle with Aegon about other 
inconsistent statements. Whilst that might be the case, I think the very fact that Mr G was 
already in contact with Aegon about other matters to do with charges around 2007/2008 
supports the fact that he was in a position to have raised this matter too. So, I think that, 
based on the information he had, at the latest Mr G ought to have known that he had cause 
for complaint by 2008. And hed have had three years from that point to make his complaint - 
so by about 2011 at the latest. But, theres no evidence of Mr G making a complaint about 
this issue until 2022. Theres also nothing to suggest that there were exceptional 
circumstances preventing Mr G from making this particular complaint sooner. It follows that I 
think its been made too late and we have no authority to consider its merits.
I think the position is a little different when it comes to Mr Gs concerns about the annual 
management charges though. Hes explained that as the transparency with which Aegons 
information improved, that answered certain questions for him whilst raising others. Mr G 
said that he didnt receive statements between about 2017- 2019, which appears to have 
been around the time that Aegon started including specific information about annual 
management charges in its statements. And although Aegon says it sent statements in 2017 
and 2018, Mr G appears not to have received them. Aegon accepts that it hadnt sent a 2019 
statement due to a system error (I understand it has sent the statement since). I dont know 
why Mr G didnt receive the 2017/2018 statements. But I have no reason to doubt Mr Gs 
account here. I say that because if he had received them, it seems likely, on balance, that 
hed have raised concerns sooner. So, taking these factors together, Im satisfied that Mr G 
wasnt alerted to the annual management charge until he received the 2020 statement. He 
raised the complaint with our Service in 2022, so Im satisfied that hes made this particular 
complaint in time for the purposes of the timeframes set out in DISP 2.8.2 (2). It follows that 
its one that I can consider. Ill address the merits of this complaint later on.
My findings on the parts of the complaint that we have the authority to look into
Its clear to me that at the heart of Mr Gs complaint is that, by reapplying charges in 
2016/17, Aegon acted contrary to an agreement made in 2009. Although, as Ill touch on 
later, hes also concerned that other actions on Aegons part are inconsistent with further 
messages it gave him.
In order to say whether Aegon complied with an agreement made in 2009, I think its 
necessary to mention some of what happened before then. Thats because, as far as I can 
tell, the 2009 agreement was meant to rectify errors made in 2008, so as to restore Mr Gs 
policy to the position it was in in 2006. 
My understanding is that in 2006 Aegon agreed to waive additional paid up charges until Mr 
Gs normal retirement age. But it confirmed that the specific member charges would 
continue. Im satisfied that Mr G understood and accepted that position, judging by an email 
he sent to Aegon in 2007. Aegon confirmed in 2009 that it had again removed the charges applied in error in 2008. 
That had the effect of restoring Mr Gs policy to a position that was in line with the agreement 
made in 2006.  And whilst Aegon doesnt appear to have mentioned the specific member 
charges again at that point, I cant see anything that would have specifically given Mr G 
cause to think that position had changed. In other words, I think it was reasonable for Mr G 
to assume those charges would continue, as per the explanation he was given in 2006 and 
which he accepted in 2007.
Unfortunately for Mr G, there were further errors on his policy. This stemmed from the fact 
that, when rectifying errors to do with the paid up charges, the limitations of Aegons 
systems meant that it had to remove the specific member charges at the same time. But 
Aegon forgot to reapply some of those charges. It retrospectively did so around 2016/17. As 
I understand it, the missing charges related to a period from about 2004-2006. 
Aegon accepts that it should have told Mr G about the retrospective amendments when they 
were made - Id agree with that. Its also a pity that Mr G didnt then receive some of the 
statements that Aegon apparently sent, which meant that he didnt find out about the 
corrections until a few years later. 
Understandably, Mr G isnt happy about what happened. And amongst his comments, he 
said that Aegon cant simply re-write or ignore the 2009 agreement. I think Mr G has every 
right to be concerned by the scale of the errors on his policy. And whilst I can appreciate why 
he might now feel that Aegon should honour the policy position as it was before even more 
issues came to light around 2016/2017, its not a position that I share. Neither do I agree that 
by doing what it did, Aegon ignored or re-wrote the 2009 agreement. Ill explain why.
First, we now know that the 2016 position didnt include specific member charges that were 
omitted between about 2004-2006. So, if I were to tell Aegon to honour the 2016 position 
again, Id be doing so knowing that it didnt include all of the charges that Mr G was required 
to pay. And I dont think that would be fair. 
Second, the 2009 agreement was intended to remove the paid up charges only, so the 
agreement meant that the specific member charges would continue. And, as Ive already 
said, Im satisfied that Mr G understood that. So, as the 2016/17 corrections were to reapply 
charges that were previously omitted, but were otherwise due, I think Aegon was entitled to 
do what it did. And I dont think it could be said to be ignoring a 2009 agreement which didnt 
specifically relate to those charges. 
When he complained to this Service, Mr G suggested that Aegon should simply live with any 
further errors its made. Again, whilst I can see why Mr G might think that, its not a position I 
agree with. In the same way that I wouldnt expect Mr G to have to live with any mistakes  
Aegon made that were to his detriment, for instance by applying charges that wouldnt 
otherwise have been due, it also wouldnt be fair to say that Aegon should live with any 
mistakes that would be to Mr Gs benefit. And I think the resolution that Mr G is seeking 
would bring about that end result. 
Having said that, it seems that Aegons actions have gone further than Id have expected. I 
say that because it appears that Aegon hasnt added specific member charges to Mr Gs 
policy between about 2007 and 2011, even though these are charges that, as far as I can 
tell, would otherwise have been due. This is something that our investigator also picked up 
on and asked Aegon about. In response, Aegon said that the charges were meant to apply, 
but were mistakenly set to zero from 2007 to 2011. Our investigator asked Aegon to confirm 
its intentions regarding recovering these charges in future. It said it wasnt intending to 
collect them at a later date. So, whilst its disappointing to note that there has been another error, this is one that Mr G does appear to have benefitted from. Bearing in mind Aegons 
previous responses, its not entirely clear why its since confirmed to our investigator that it 
wouldnt backdate specific member charges in future - even if Mr G transferred out. But I 
think that is a commercial decision Aegon is entitled to make if it decides it wants to.
Mr G doesnt agree that Aegon has made a concession though. And he seems to be 
suggesting that specific member charges wouldnt apply as a result of changes to the policy 
conditions rather than a goodwill gesture on Aegons part. While that might be Mr Gs view,  
the evidence Ive seen isnt persuasive enough to show that. And Aegon hasnt suggested 
that a change in policy conditions is whats led to the removal of these charges. But, 
whatever the reason, Aegon has confirmed it wont be reapplying the specific member 
charges for the period 2007 to 2011. 
For all of the reasons Ive set out, I dont agree that Aegons actions in 2016/17 were in 
breach of the 2009 agreement. 
But thats not to say that things have been plain sailing. Aegon accepts that its made further 
errors and should have told Mr G about the corrections it made to the charges around 
2016/17.  And I can certainly appreciate Mr Gs concern when learning about them some 
years later. Particularly as he then had to ask for missing statements in order to identify 
exactly when the charges were retrospectively applied. Ive set out my comments about the 
impact this had under the heading summary below.
Turning now to Mr Gs concern that the annual management charge may also be 
inconsistent with messages he was given in 2007. This appears to be one of the charges  
referred to amongst a list of charges included in the policy booklet when it was first set up. 
But as Aegon told Mr G in 2007 that the only charge to apply would be a specific member 
charge, I can see why he might now think Aegon has again been inconsistent in its 
responses. However, I understand that this is a fund charge rather than a policy charge  
that means its applied by a fund manager directly. That being the case, it might account for  
why Aegon didnt mention it specifically when responding to other issues to do with charges. 
But I think it still would have been helpful if Aegon had been a bit more specific about 
whether its responses were referring to plan charges only. Given the scale of issues and 
corrections on the account, I think it might have saved any further confusion too. I also dont 
think Aegons interchangeable use of different terms for the charges helped either. However, 
as its a fund charge rather than a policy charge, Im not persuaded that it shows another 
inconsistency on Aegons part. Rather, Im inclined to think it was more a question of Aegon 
perhaps needing to be clearer in its communication. 
Summary
Mr G doesnt feel that Aegon has made enough of an attempt to improve its service. So, he 
doesnt feel that the compensation payments offered to date reflect the distress and 
inconvenience he's suffered over a period of five years and ten months. Neither does he feel 
that they are any form of incentive for Aegon to improve its service in future. But more than 
that, Mr G doesnt feel that the current offer of £350 reflects the pain caused by Aegons 
latest activities, including in him having to revisit the matter again in order to prepare 
submissions to Aegon and this Service. 
Ive given very careful thought to all of this. I need to make clear that its not for me to issue a 
financial penalty or punish Aegon for past mistakes. My role is to decide whether Aegons 
done enough to recognise the impact of the mistakes that gave rise to this specific 
complaint. That is, the impact on Mr G when he found out - after a period of relative calm on 
his account - that retrospective charges had been added. I can appreciate that Mr G must 
have been confused and worried to find out in 2020 about further charges added to his account that he had no prior knowledge of.  And I recognise that required Mr G to ask for 
missing statements and engage with Aegon  including through the process of making a 
complaint  to get to the bottom of what happened.  
Putting things right
Aegon has apologised that it didnt tell Mr G about the corrections to his account when they 
were made. And its offered £350 compensation on top. I know that Mr G doesnt think thats 
enough. I can appreciate his disappointment in having to revisit things again  especially 
when he thought theyd been resolved some years earlier. But, on balance, Im satisfied that 
Aegons apology together with an offer to pay £350 compensation is fair in these particular 
circumstances. Im satisfied it fairly recognises any worry that Mr G was caused and the 
effort he had to go to to sort things out.  If Aegon hasnt already paid that amount it should 
do so now. 
My final decision
Scottish Equitable plc trading as Aegon has made a fair and reasonable offer to pay 
compensation of £350. It should pay that amount to Mr G now if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman