DRN-4182027
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited provided poor service and offered 
an unfair settlement following his claim on his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr P had car insurance with Admiral. In September 2022 he made a claim following an 
incident that resulted in the total loss of his vehicle. Admiral accepted the claim and said the 
vehicle was a total loss so it would pay the market value of the car. It offered £3,300 as 
settlement. 
However Mr P said this wasnt enough to replace it with a similar vehicle. He was also 
unhappy with the service hed received as hed waited in for the car to be collected when it 
wasnt and hed had to wait on hold for a long time when he called Admiral.
He made a complaint and Admiral accepted it had provided poor service. It offered a total of 
£190 compensation for this. But it said its valuation was based on trade guide prices and 
was a fair offer.
Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld as he thought the offer made by Admiral was fair and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to value vehicles. Instead we look to see how an insurer has 
reached its valuation in order to determine if it has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policy.
Admiral has provided quotes from trade guides it used to make an assessment of the value 
of Mr Ps car. This service considers these to be the most reliable guide for the market value 
of cars, because the quotes are based on likely sales achieved, not just advertised prices. 
I have considered these valuations, alongside valuations I carried out myself using the trade 
guides. And Im satisfied that the value of £3,300 is at the higher range of these valuations. 
So I dont think Admiral has provided an unfair valuation. 
Mr P has said hes seen vehicles similar to his own for sale, that are advertised at higher 
prices. And that hes recently carried out work and replaced parts of the car that should be 
taken into account. While I can understand Mr Ps frustration that the settlement wont be 
enough to purchase these cars, and that the money spent on the car was wasted, I dont 
agree this means Admiral has offered an unfair amount.
Trade guides base their values on the exact details of Mr Ps car at the time it was written 
off. This includes the date of manufacture and the mileage at the time. Whereas this isnt 
something that can be reflected in adverts. Also, trade guides base their valuations on prices 
that cars were sold at and not just the price they are advertised for. And while Mr P has 
recently spent money on the vehicle, this doesnt necessarily mean the value of the car 
would be impacted. So I dont agree Admiral should change its valuation based on this. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Admiral has reached its valuation fairly and reasonably 
by relying on trade guides
Ive also considered what Mr P has said about the service he has received from Admiral. I 
agree it caused him inconvenience when its agent agreed to collect the car on a date, and 
then didnt show up. And I can see hes had to contact Admiral more than Id expect. So I 
agree compensation is due. Admiral has already offered a total of £190 compensation and 
this is in line with what I would have offered if it hadnt. So I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman