DRN-2435270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt give 
them all their home insurance documents when requested, and its response to this matter 
caused them further distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs R took out their home insurance policy on-line. On the same day, 
Mr R wrote to LV and requested a hard copy of all documents. LV responded two days 
later. It sent him a letter which stated, weve enclosed the documents you need, and it 
enclosed the policy schedule and a summary of the key information.
In August 2019, Mr R wrote to LV again and explained he required all documents. LV again 
responded within two days, but with the same covering letter and documents previously 
supplied.
Mr R complained to LV that it hadnt provided the document of insurance. He said this had 
caused anxiety and inconvenience. Mr R noted he was claiming £30 compensation, and he 
would charge at least £30 for any further letters he had to send. Mr R asked LV for a hard 
copy of its complaint procedure. He also asked LV to communicate by hard copy letter, 
although he said email could be sent in the first instance.
Two days later, LV replied by email. It noted it had now ordered the document of insurance 
for Mr R and it would be posted within ten working days. LV also explained it had logged a 
complaint, but there wasnt a hard copy of its complaint procedure it could send. LV said it 
had also sent £15 via bank transfer, as a gesture of goodwill.
A week later, LV followed up with a further email. LV explained the policy document had now 
been sent, and it asked Mr R to let it know if his concerns remained unanswered. LV said if it 
hadnt heard from him within a week it would close his complaint, but it would write to him 
again before doing so. LV also provided a link to its complaint procedure.
Mr R complained further that LV had:
- failed to provide a hard copy of its complaint procedure
- ignored his request for hard copy letter replies
- failed to define his letters in its replies
- made a derisory compensation offer
- tried to terminate his complaint
Mr R said the issues amounted to further gross maladministration, which had caused anxiety 
and inconvenience. He said he was now claiming £60 compensation, and he would charge 
at least £30 for any additional letters he had to send.
LV sent a final response to the complaint. LV explained it had now amended Mr and Mrs Rs 
policy so documents would be sent by post instead of email. It also explained the policy had 
been taken out on-line, and during the process it was confirmed the policy book needed to 
be downloaded; and this is why when policy documents were requested, the policy book 
wasnt sent. LV said the £15 compensation was for the inconvenience caused, and it 
increased this to £30.
Mr and Mrs R referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators explained that 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so he didnt think we could consider the issues 
Mr R had raised about LVs handling of their complaint. In respect of providing the policy 
documents, he thought LV had responded to Mr Rs requests in good time and £30 
compensation was fair for what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with our investigator, so their complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has questioned why this service cant consider complaints about complaint handling. 
To summarise, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so Im unable to consider a 
complaint which is solely about such matters. 
However, having reviewed Mr Rs correspondence with our service, Ive seen the issues that 
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about largely relate to how LV administered its business when 
providing a financial service (a regulated activity). Therefore, Ive considered their overall 
experience after they requested hard copies of all their policy documents.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs frustration when LV misunderstood Mr Rs initial request for all 
documents, or their further frustration when it simply sent the same letter and enclosures 
following Mr Rs second request. In my view, LV ought to have sought clarification from 
Mr and Mrs R to understand what they needed.
Mr R says whilst he was repeatedly writing to LV, the details of their insurance and the 
extent of their cover was being withheld; which caused anxiety. He says LVs careless 
responses, especially its attempt to terminate the complaint, exacerbated the anxiety 
caused. 
However, whilst I accept Mr R was anxious to receive a hard copy of their policy terms, I also 
consider it more likely than not, that Mr and Mrs R would have been able to review the cover 
before taking it out, to check it met their needs. Im also mindful that Mr R could have been 
more specific with his second request, rather than re-stating all documents. Furthermore, 
Im satisfied LV responded to his requests promptly. Therefore, whilst I accept Mr R was 
anxious to receive a hard copy of their policy terms, overall, Im not persuaded that the 
situation caused distress, or LV was responsible for causing distress.
In terms of LVs responses, I dont agree it attempted to terminate Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
But rather, LV provided the document they wanted after Mr R clarified what they needed, it 
offered an apology, and it gave them an opportunity to respond. Also, LV wasnt under any 
obligation to define Mr Rs letters in a particular way when replying, irrespective of his 
requests. In my view, on each occasion, it was evident what correspondence LV was 
responding to.Furthermore, whilst I acknowledge Mr R had asked for hard copies of all correspondence, 
and I accept his frustration that his request wasnt followed, the information was sent by 
email. Mr R hasnt said anything that leads me to believe he was unable to access the 
information LV sent by email. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were 
significantly impacted by LVs failure to follow Mr Rs hard copy request. 
In conclusion, I accept Mr and Mrs R suffered some inconvenience and frustration. However, 
Im satisfied that £30 compensation fairly acknowledges the impact the above issues can 
reasonably be said to have had on them. Im not persuaded I would have awarded 
significantly more if LV hadnt made this offer.
 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. But for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman