DRN-2712839
The complaint
Mr R and Miss T complained that the workmanship of Fairmead Insurance Limited 
(Fairmead) was sub-standard following a claim on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Fairmeads contractors supplied and installed a kitchen for Mr R and Miss T at their home to 
rectify damage from a previous claim. Around 16 months later, they discovered a leak in 
their kitchen which was coming from behind the dishwasher. The leak caused damage to the 
flooring in their kitchen. Mr R and Miss T said, it is unclear as to when the dishwasher 
started leaking but it only came to our attention when the floor tiles were moving and one of 
them had cracked. They raised the issue with Fairmead.
After their inspection, Fairmead said the external hose has perished, causing the leak to 
occur. They declined liability, saying this is not due to any poor workmanship and should 
this have been due to the workmanship of fitting the pipe this would have occurred sooner 
and within the twelve months workmanship guarantee.
Mr R and Miss T were unhappy with the findings. They said when Fairmeads contractor 
investigated the problem, they did not move the dishwasher to look further at the damage 
and only viewed the dishwasher from its front using a torch.
Mr R and Miss T believed the leak was caused from the way the dishwasher was installed. 
They provided photographic and video evidence of the leak in the cold-water hose that 
supplied the dishwasher and provided their theory to what caused it. They said there are 2 
pinches in the pipe, the pinch at the bottom has a small hole and this is where it has been 
leaking. We have gone out and bought a new hose to replace as we can no longer be 
without a dishwasher. This cause of the leak would have been picked up 9 weeks ago had 
the contractors had the due diligence to fully investigate and take out the dishwasher to 
look.
Fairmead reviewed the evidence provided by Mr R and Miss T, but they maintained that the 
leak would have been identified earlier if the cause was in fact down to poor workmanship.
Our investigator recommended not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was 
evidence that the poor workmanship led to the leak and he thought it was more likely that the 
leak came from the dishwasher. Mr R and Miss T disagreed, so asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 19 March 2021. I said:
There are two main pieces of evidence that I can see. The report provided by Fairmeads 
contractor and the photographic and video evidence provided by Mr R and Miss T.
I dont find the report provided by Fairmeads appointed contractor to be compelling. Mr R 
and Miss T complained that the report of the appointed contractor was inaccurate as they 
said the dishwasher was never removed from the kitchen units to allow a proper inspection 
to take place. Fairmead didnt challenge the comments from Mr R and Miss T, so I have no 
reason not to rely on their statement. I also find it odd that the contractor didnt take any 
photographs to support his assertions, which further supports in my mind that a full 
inspection didnt take place. Therefore, I find the report to be unreliable and it would be 
unfair for me to use it in reaching my conclusions.
I disagree with a conclusion made by our investigator in making his recommendation. He 
said that he thought it was more likely that the leak came from the dishwasher than the 
external hose. The video evidence shows clearly a small leak is coming from the hose, close 
to where it was pinched or kinked. Also, Mr R and Miss T told us that when they replaced the 
hose, it stopped the leak. So, I am comfortable the external hose was where the water was 
leaking from.
I need to decide whether I think the leak from the hose was caused by poor workmanship. 
Fairmead has said the pipe had perished, but they have not really provided evidence of this 
as they didnt take any photos or remove the hose to inspect it. I dont think the photo 
provided by Mr R and Miss T shows that the pipe has perished. I also dont think it would be 
usual for a hose of this nature to perish after only 16 months. I think it is more likely they are 
designed to last much longer. Therefore, I dont think Fairmead have reached a reasonable 
outcome based on this evidence.
Having examined both the photo and video provided by Mr R and Miss T, I can see a pinch 
or kink in the pipe, where it has been bent at a greater angle than its material allows. This 
has caused a distortion to its shape. I am certain that the hose shouldnt be bent this much, 
so I dont think it has been fitted correctly. I would expect a hose to be able to cope with a 
gentle bend, but I think the way this hose has been fitted has put an additional amount of 
pressure on the material that it wasnt designed for, which has either caused it to deteriorate 
quicker than it normally would or more acutely has caused a small hole to emerge where the 
pipe has been bent too much.
Fairmead have suggested that if it was their workmanship that had caused the issue the 
damage would have been greater. However, its not possible to determine exactly when the 
hose gave way and when the water leak started. It may have given way more recently which 
is why the damage may not have been more severe. But I think the evidence shows there is 
a small leak in the pipe and its in the area that has been excessively bent or stretched. I 
dont think Fairmeads contractors have fitted the pipe correctly. If they had, I dont think the 
shape of the hose would have become distorted. As it was Fairmeads responsibility to fit the 
dishwasher correctly, I intend to uphold this complaint and expect it to rectify the damage 
that the leak has caused. 
The delay in settling this claim has caused Mr R and Miss T inconvenience as they have 
been without the use of their dishwasher for a period of time and the delay in having the 
repair to their floor will also have been frustrating. Therefore, I intend to award Mr R and 
Miss T £200 in compensation also. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R and Miss T accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Fairmead said they didnt have anything further to add on the case.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I require Fairmead to pay the compensation within 28 days of receiving 
this decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Rectify the damage the water leak has caused in Mr R and Miss Ts kitchen
Pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused (within 28 days)
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman