DRN-4361652
The complaint
Ms C complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined a 
claim for the theft of her car under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms C had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
Her car was stolen from outside her house in August 2022 and she made a claim from 
Admiral. She supplied two keys to Admiral as part of its claims procedure. 
Admiral analysed the keys and declined her claim as it didnt think one of the keys belonged 
to her car. Admiral thought Ms C had sent it a key from another vehicle to pass it off as the 
correct key.
Ms C complained and Admiral didnt respond within eight weeks.
She remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that Admiral pay 
her claim.
Admiral then responded and continued to decline her claim. It said it thought she was trying 
to pass off a key as being one from the car.
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint and upheld it. He thought Admiral should 
settle the claim in line with the policy terms, plus interest at 8% simple. He also thought it 
should pay Ms C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Ms C accepted the view. Admiral responded and provided more evidence. Our investigator 
said the evidence still didnt mean that Admiral had fairly rejected the claim. Admiral again 
said it would provide more evidence, but didnt supply it.
Because Admiral didnt respond, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C bought the car second-hand and she said she received two keys for it. I can see from 
Admirals key report that they are visually very similar, but when analysed by Admirals 
forensic expert, one of the keys seems to be from a different vehicle and a different year. 
Its Admirals position that the second key could not have been used to start the car and so 
Ms C was supplying it with incorrect information in order to cover up the theft of her car, 
which it concludes was carried out using the real key.
When Ms C reported the claim she told Admiral she had the main key but couldnt find the 
second one. She later found this spare key and sent it to Admiral.
The key is an unusual type which fits into a slot on the vehicle. It also contains a key blade 
used when the vehicle systems arent functioning. The key blade was matched to an 
identical lock barrel, but Admirals forensic report says the key couldnt have been from the 
car as it was from a different year and type. It wasnt able to provide more information from 
the manufacturer despite this services requests.
Its important that I say its not my role to determine how the theft occurred. My role is to 
consider whether Admiral behaved fairly when investigating the claim and that its 
conclusions are supported by the evidence.
When Admiral use a policy condition to repudiate a claim its essential that it provides 
evidence about this. In Ms Cs case, Admiral has said it was using:
General Condition 9:Fraud and General Condition 3: Care of your vehicle. 
We have denied the claim under General Condition 3, as any insured person must 
remove and secure any key or device that allows access to the vehicle, as well as 
leaving the car locked / secure. 
We have added General Condition 9 due to a vehicle key being supplied to us that is 
not for the car. This is in attempt to cover up the fact the vehicle was left unsecure 
and taken with an original key.
Ive read Ms Cs version of events. I find her evidence detailed and persuasive. She 
purchased her car from the manufacturers main dealer and kept it for about three years. 
She seems to have a busy house. Her family used one key which was kept in a downstairs 
location, and the second was kept in a bedroom. Shes mentioned about the area in which 
she lives unfortunately having a high rate of vehicle theft. Shes had several cars made by 
the same manufacturer before.
In correspondence with Admiral, Ms C said that perhaps the second key was from one of her 
older vehicles. Admiral considered this point and said:
I can appreciate maybe there was a key mix up however she or someone known to 
her has gone to the trouble to cut and put a blade for this car into this fob, we believe 
this was done in order to pass this key off as one for this vehicle and so she would 
have known it wasnt for the vehicle, hence attempting to mislead us.
My concern is that Admiral has made statements about Ms Cs behaviour with the keys. Its 
then used those statements as evidence to reject her claim. 
The statements have a basis in fact because of the forensic report, but to say she or 
someone known to her put a blade for this car into this fob is, in my view, stretching that 
evidence into conjecture.
I dont think Admirals approach here is fair and reasonable. Ive said above that its essential 
Admiral provide evidence for why its rejecting a claim, and in this case I dont think it has. 
Looking at the two general conditions its used, I dont think its reasonably shown that the 
car was taken using one of Ms Cs keys, or that it was left unsecured.
And I dont think its shown that Ms C tried to mislead it  her evidence is plausible and reasonably supports the events of that night.
Ms C has been expressing her dissatisfaction with its procedures and explaining the impact 
of the delays so far on her and her family. I can see shes been caused distress and 
inconvenience by Admirals handling of the claim.
I can see Ms C accepted the view that Admiral should now pay her claim, plus interest, and 
pay her £150 compensation. So I think that is what Admiral should do.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Settle Ms Cs claim on the remaining policy terms. Interest at 8% simple should be 
added to this, from the date the claim was declined to the date payment is made.
Pay Ms C £150 for her distress and inconvenience.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman