DRN-2707923
The complaint
Mrs R complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited hasnt paid her the 
proceeds of her life assurance policy.
 
In bringing this complaint, Mrs R is represented by Mr R and Ms A.
What happened
Mrs R had two policies with Prudential. One policy was taken out in 1964 and was a life 
assurance policy for 30 years that would pay out a lump sum when Mr R passed away. The 
other policy provided life cover and savings.
In 2019, Mrs R contacted Prudential to cash-in her life cover and savings policy. However, it 
said that it had paid the maturity payment in October 2000, and a cheque for £7,862.97 had 
been sent to her address. But Mrs R said that the money hadnt been paid to her. She asked 
for more details about what had happened, and it had told her that it had an address for her 
in London, when this wasnt right. Prudential had limited information about the settlement of 
the policy. It said it retained details of claimed policies for a period of seven years, and after 
that time, the details are removed. 
Mrs R complained. She said Prudential had referred to her by the wrong name. She said her 
bank had no record of the cheque being cashed in any of its branches.
Prudential said that the cheque for the policy proceeds had been sent to Mrs Rs address in 
2000, so it had been paid out correctly. But it apologised for the incorrect name being 
included on its letters and that Mrs Rs request to receive a telephone call hadnt been 
actioned. It arranged to pay Mrs R a total of £300 (in two separate amounts of £150) for the 
upset, inconvenience and confusion that she was caused by the communication about her 
policy.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that neither Prudential nor 
Mrs Rs bank had any details of the cheque being cashed, but that this wasnt unexpected as 
businesses may not keep such records for more than six years. He said that Prudentials 
records showed the cheque was posted to Mrs R at her correct address at the time. 
However, he said that the £300 it had sent to Mrs R was fair for the trouble and upset she 
was caused through Prudentials correspondence about the complaint. 
Mrs Rs representatives said that she didnt accept the investigators findings. They said they 
had been told that the money had been paid out to someone in London. They had no record 
of receiving the cheque and didnt believe it had been sent. They felt that Prudential owed 
the money to Mrs R and asked for proof of the letter that the cheque was sent with, and 
where and when the cheque was cashed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate how Mrs R has been concerned about the proceeds of her policy; that she 
doesnt recall receiving the cheque Prudential sent; and that she has no bank records of this. 
I can see that the matter has been further confused by Prudentials communication with her 
with the details she was given and in addressing her by the wrong name.
Because of the passage of time since the policy was paid out, there are understandably 
limited records still available. But I dont think this is unreasonable as Prudential isnt 
required to retain such records indefinitely. However Ive looked at the available information 
about Mrs Rs two policies. 
The first plan provided life cover on the death of Mr R during the 30-year term and was taken 
out in 1964. So this plan ended without value or claim in 1994. I can see Mrs R has referred 
to a payment of £150 being made in relation to this, but this was compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused through Prudentials communication with her 
about it rather than a payment from the policy itself.
The second plan provided life cover and savings. Prudential has told us that its term ended 
in 2000 and that the maturity payment was sent to Mrs R at that time in the form of a 
cheque, and this was sent to the address it held for her  which it confirmed in its final 
response letter. Prudentials records show the policy number; the date of the cheque; its 
value; the cheque number and that it was payable to Mrs R.
While I appreciate that Mrs R will be understandably disappointed as she doesnt recall 
receiving this cheque and would like more of an explanation about what happened to her 
money, I dont think that Prudential has done anything wrong as the records indicate that the 
policy proceeds were sent to Mrs R when it matured. I acknowledge that there was initially 
some confusion about the address it held for her at that time, and a London address was 
referred to, but Prudential has since confirmed this wasnt the address the cheque was sent 
to. And the one it did use was Mrs Rs correct address at the time.
Prudential has apologised for the confusion it caused Mrs R with its communications about 
her policies, and for referring to her using the wrong name. To recognise this, it has sent 
Mrs R a total of £300, which I understand she has received the cheques for. Taking 
everything into account, I think that this fairly recognises the upset and inconvenience she 
was caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman