DRN-3560500
The complaint
Ms H complains about how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) handled 
matters when she experienced financial difficulty. 
What happened
In June 2017, Ms H entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement 
for a used car. She was required to pay monthly instalments of £334 with a final optional 
payment of £13,276.
In March 2020, Ms H contacted VWFS to say she would experience financial difficulty due to 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. In June 2020, Ms H applied for a three month payment 
deferral and the agreement was suspended. She made a manual payment of £509 in June 
2020.  Following a further discussion with VWFS in September 2020, it was agreed they 
would refund £55 as the agreement was in credit in order to allow the payment deferral 
request to be considered. 
In November 2020, Ms H advised VWFS she wanted to resume the contractual payments on 
her agreement as she was looking to part exchange the car and she couldnt do so as the 
account was still suspended.  No action was taken by VWFS at that point. Ms Hs account 
was suspended between June 2020 and June 2021 meaning a total of eleven payments 
werent billed via direct debit. VWFS said she needed to pay these missed payments. Ms H 
complained, she said she was unable to make payments because the account was 
suspended and she was unable to sell or part exchange the car due to the situation.
VWFS accepted the agreement had been suspended for a prolonged period following the 
application for a payment deferral. They confirmed they would remove any adverse 
information from Ms Hs credit file in relation to the deferred payments and those which fell 
due during the suspension. To put things right, they agreed to waive three months 
instalments from the outstanding balance. As the agreement came to an end in July 2021, 
they agreed to also give one additional month for Ms H to exercise her end of contract 
options. However they confirmed the adverse information relating to the final optional 
payment would remain on Ms Hs credit file as the car wasnt returned nor the final payment 
paid as per the agreement terms. 
Unhappy with their response, she referred the complaint to our service. VWFS confirmed to 
our service that they would agree to remove six months instalments meaning the 
outstanding balance owed to settle the account in full would be £15,295 (made up of the 
missed payments and the final optional payment). Our investigator said VWFS were 
responsible for the account being suspended for the extended period but they felt their offer 
of resolution was fair and reasonable.
Ms H disagreed, in summary she said:
- She was told she wouldnt be liable for the payments while the account was 
suspended;
- She only wanted a payment deferral for three months. She accepts she has to pay 
these three missed payments;
- The situation had impacted her credit file negatively when she was told it wouldnt;
- She tried to make payments towards the agreement but they wouldnt let her;
- She cant pay the missed payments in a lump sum and this was what she was trying 
to avoid when the agreement came to an end;
- She couldnt sell or part exchange the car because the agreement was suspended;
- The situation has caused her trouble and upset and VWFS hasnt compensated her 
for this. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe VWFS has done enough to put things right.  Ill explain why.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance about the support to be 
offered to those financially impacted by the pandemic. In this case, it was clear the guidance 
applied to Mrs H so I can understand why she was advised to apply for a payment deferral. I 
can see the account was temporarily suspended as the application as being considered 
meaning no payments were taken. 
However based on the evidence from VWFS, I cant see a payment deferral was either 
approved or declined despite them saying in September 2020 they were still looking into it. 
Given Ms H had applied for the payment deferral in June 2020, its unclear why there was 
such a delay to consider the request and communicate the outcome. While I understand 
VWFS operations and resources wouldve been impacted by the pandemic, I find the delay 
to consider the request was unreasonable. Even when Ms H made it clear in November 
2020 that the payment deferral was no longer needed as she was looking to part exchange 
the car, the agreement remained suspended despite VWFS saying they will update the 
account. 
VWFS accept the account was suspended longer than it needed to be meaning 11 
payments werent taken, this isnt dispute. I note Ms M said she only needed the payment 
deferral for three months. Thereafter, it appears she intended to resume the contractual 
payments and/or potentially end the agreement early. 
Ive listened to the calls between VWFS and Ms H. When discussing the payment deferral, 
the advisors explained any missed payments would need to be paid back, either by paying 
higher monthly instalments during the remainder of the agreement or the agreement may be 
extended, it would be based on her affordability. At no point did I hear any of VWFS 
advisors say she wouldnt be responsible for the paying the missed payments so I dont 
agree with Ms Hs comments that she was told this. During one call, she was advised that 
once a payment deferral was in place, she could still make manual payments towards the 
agreement if she wanted to and these will go towards the oldest arrears. The reason this 
was discussed was because she indicated although she couldnt pay the contractual 
amount, she may be able to pay £250 per month. On another call she was advised as the 
account was suspended the direct debit had been cancelled but once it ended this would 
need to be reinstated to resume the contractual payments. The advisor offered to take the 
direct debit details at the time but Ms H confirmed she would do so at a later point. For these 
reasons, Im satisfied VWFS had made it clear that she would be required to pay back any 
missed instalments. Ive carefully considered Ms Hs comments that she planned to part exchange her car but 
she couldnt because the agreement was suspended. Having heard the calls, I can hear she 
advised the same but Im not convinced this wouldve definitely happened. I say this 
because following her calls in December 2020 to talk about this, Ms H didnt make contact 
with VWFS until June 2021 which was around six months later and approximately a month 
before the contract was due to come to an end. If she had definitely decided to part 
exchange the car and end the agreement early, I think its fair to assume she wouldve been 
back in contact with VWFS sooner if she was unable to do so because of the account 
remained suspended. On balance, I believe the agreement wouldve more or less run to the 
end, which was July 2021 meaning all the monthly instalments would need to be paid. 
I can understand why at the end of the agreement, Mrs H was upset and frustrated by being 
told she had eleven missed payments to pay when she had proactively contacted VWFS on 
several occasions to discuss the account. From my understanding she wanted to avoid 
being left with a large lump sum to pay at the end of the agreement. While its clear there 
was an error by VWFS for the account being suspended for so long meaning no payments 
were taken, that doesnt mean they arent entitled to these payments. Mr H had the benefit 
and use of the car during this time so based on the terms of the agreement, I find these 11 
missed payments are owed to them by Ms H. 
To put things right, VWFS has agreed they would waive six monthly instalments from the 
outstanding balance which totals around £2000. Theyve agreed to update Ms Hs credit file 
to remove any adverse information related to the missed payments while the account was 
suspended. They also agreed to give Ms H an additional month after the contract ended so 
she could consider her end of contract options. Based on what has happened, I consider this 
to be a fair resolution. I say this because although Ms H owes VWFS eleven missed 
payments, they are offering to waive six of them, thats half of the missed payments that they 
are contractually entitled to, I consider that a significant amount. 
As mentioned above, due to the account being suspended longer than it should meant Ms H 
was unable to part exchange or sell the car, in her words, she was stuck with it. I find it was 
reasonable for VWFS to allow additional time after the agreement ended for her to explore 
her end of contract options. Despite this additional time, I understand the car remains in her 
possession. From my understanding, Ms H wanted this situation to be resolved so she knew 
how much was needed to settle the agreement before considering her options. As the car 
wasnt returned, part exchanged or the agreement settled by the extended deadline, it meant 
the final optional payment became payable. Therefore I cant say VWFS acted unfairly by 
reporting this adverse information to her credit file. They have a duty to report fair and 
accurate information in relation to the agreement so I wont be asking them to remove the 
adverse information in relation to this.
Given the number of calls and contact between Ms H and VWFS its clear this situation 
caused her upset and worry. She contacted VWFS to let them know about her financial 
difficulties and asked them about next steps and options. As explained above, I find VWFS 
offer of resolution to be significant and certainly higher than what I would award as 
compensation for such circumstances. Although I accept this situation has impacted Ms H, I 
wont be asking them to pay a separate award of compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Taking everything into account, its clear there has been a failing by VWFS. They suspended 
Ms Hs account longer than necessary meaning payments werent taken. However I believe 
their offer of resolution is enough to put things right so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further. Lastly, I wish to remind VWFS that if Ms H is still experiencing financial difficulty and unable 
to pay the revised outstanding balance in a lump sum, they should treat her with forbearance 
and due consideration as per the CONC guidelines. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, as already offered by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited, they should do the following to put things right:
-Update the outstanding balance to remove six monthly instalments (if not done so 
already;
-Remove any adverse information relating to the missed payments while the account 
was suspended.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman