DRN-2533721
The complaint
U complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital On Tap took £99 from its 
account following an application that wasnt completed. U complains that the funds werent 
refunded in good time.
 
What happened
In January 2020 Us director completed an online application with Capital On Tap. Us 
director said they decided not to proceed before the application was completed and didnt 
consent to Capital on Tap debiting the £99 annual fee. Capital on Tap says Us director did 
complete the application and, as part of that process, agreed to pay the £99 annual fee. 
Us director contacted Capital On Tap and asked for evidence the £99 payment had been 
agreed as part of the application. Capital on Tap says some of the contact it received from U 
came from different email addresses which couldnt be verified. Capital On Tap says it 
needed to discuss the situation with Us director over the phone. 
Us director went on to complain to Capital On Tap and said the £99 fee hadnt been 
authorised. Capital On Tap ultimately agreed to refund the £99 annual fee. Capital On Tap 
says that despite making attempts to refund the £99 the funds were returned by Us bank. 
Us complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Capital On Tap had dealt with U fairly and said the £99 annual fee was taken after it had 
successfully completed an application. The investigator said Capital On Tap had tried to 
refund the payment using the account information it held but found it had been returned by 
the receiving bank. Us director didnt agree that Capital On Tap had dealt with its complaint 
fairly, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Us initial complaint was that it didnt complete the online application in January 2020 or 
approve the £99 annual fee payment. But Capital On Tap has sent in a copy of the email it 
sent U when the application was successfully completed. The email confirmed an annual fee 
will be collected via direct debit. Capital On Tap has also sent us a copy of the direct debit 
instruction U completed during the application process. In addition, Capital On Tap has sent 
us systems evidence showing the application process U completed, which includes 
reference to the annual fee. 
Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows U did complete the application process which 
included approving a direct debit payment to cover the annual fee. 
There have been delays applying the refund to Us account. U has told Capital On Tap that 
its account details remain the same so the funds should be refunded in line with the original 
instruction. But Capital On Tap has sent in payment systems evidence to show that on two 
occasions it attempted to refund the £99 annual fee to Us account. Ive reviewed the 
information contained within the direct debit instruction U completed during the application 
process and the account details Capital On Tap attempted to use for the refund. Im satisfied 
theyre the same. The payment systems information shows the receiving bank returned the 
payment to Capital On Tap. Whilst I appreciate the refund wasnt made, I havent found that 
Capital On Tap has made any errors in its attempts or treated U unfairly. 
I can see there were some delays between the initial application being made and the first 
refund attempt. But that partially appears to be due to communication being received from 
different email addresses that werent included in the application process. From the 
information Ive seen, Capital On Tap has tried to contact Us director on various occasions 
to discuss options for issuing a refund. I havent found that the service provided was poor or 
that Capital on Tap unreasonably delayed matters.  
I recently asked Capital On Tap to attempt another refund. Capital On Tap has confirmed the 
payment was returned by the receiving bank again. Us director has also confirmed it wasnt 
received and has asked for a cheque instead. I think its important that U receives its £99 
back and I agree that issuing a cheque is a reasonable alternative to making a direct refund. 
Im sorry to disappoint Us director, but I havent found that Capital On Tap has made any 
errors in this case and Im satisfied it has dealt with the complaint fairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman