DRN-3857753
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) would not action his balance 
transfer request with a third party provider. 
What happened
Mr O says he applied for a Sainsburys 34 month balance transfer credit card with the sole 
purpose to transfer £4,000 to pay a third party credit card he owed. He says when he clicked 
the apply button on the application, the website said that they may not be able to process 
balance transfers from some providers. Mr O says he clicked on a link for the exclusions for 
this, and he says it said that Sainsburys may not be able to process transfers from some 
store cards and charge cards. Mr O says that the applicable terms and conditions do not 
mention that Sainsbury's will not process balance transfers from the provider he was wanting 
to transfer from.
Mr O completed his application with his third party credit card details (after first being 
rejected when he accidently entered his third party charge card details), and he was 
accepted for the account. Mr O contacted Sainsburys to ask them when the balance transfer 
would be completed, and he says the call handler informed him that they didnt accept 
balance transfer requests from the third party provider. Mr O made a complaint to 
Sainsburys.
Sainsburys did not uphold Mr Os complaint. They said before applying online, they make 
customers aware that they may not be able to accept transfers from some providers. They 
said they can accept transfers from some of the third party company credit cards he wanted 
to transfer from, but after reviewing his application, they could see his card isn't a card they 
can accept transfers from. Mr O brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Os complaint. She said the terms of Mr Os credit card 
confirmed that balance transfer requests are subject to approval. She said Sainsburys never 
confirmed his request was approved or would be approved at any point. Mr O asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, he said the 
evidence clearly shows that he was approved for the transfer and that the terms and 
conditions are only binding if they are provided before entering a contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
The exact wording of the website which was available to Mr O when he applied for the 
balance transfer credit card is not available online. Neither he nor Sainsburys have a copy 
of this information when I asked them both for this. So while I cant rely on that exact wording 
here, I have considered what Mr O says about the current wording on the website being an 
indication they could accept his transfer request based on the provider he was with.
The screenshot Mr O sent us does show three types of credit cards  of which Mr Os was 
one of these three under the we accept wording on their website. It also says in this section 
we accept most UK based personal credit cards displaying the following symbol, then it 
lists the three types of cards. But this wording says they accept most. So as the wording 
used says most, Im persuaded there would be some personal credit cards which displayed 
one of the three companies listed symbols  including the one Mr O held, which they 
wouldnt accept. 
I say this as I would expect the wording to say Sainsburys accepted all (instead of most) UK 
based personal credit cards displaying one of the three companies symbol listed below if 
they could accept every transfer request from these companies. So Im not persuaded that a 
false expectation was set with the wording they used here. In addition this page shows if 
you would like clarification if your transfer can go ahead prior to your application or if you are 
unsure.call us on and they list their telephone number. So if Mr O was in any doubt 
whether they could accept his transfer, he could have spoken to them about this prior to his 
application. 
Ive considered the journey Mr O would have taken when he applied for the credit card. 
Again, I cant see the exact wording here as this product is currently not on sale and 
Sainsburys have told me they dont have historic wording for the product. But they did send 
me evidence of wording from May 2022 and now to prove the wording is in the same format. 
Mr O also sent us a link to a Sainsburys balance transfer card. On both of these from 
Sainsburys and Mr O, it says on the right hand side of the screen Important Information. In 
this section it shows General terms and conditions.
By clicking on the general terms and conditions, this opens up the general terms and 
conditions. This is not offer specific. The terms state These conditions together with the 
Credit Card Agreement set out all the conditions for your credit card with Sainsburys Bank 
so please ensure you read both documents carefully. When Mr O would have clicked to 
apply for his credit card it takes the user to the screen which he previously highlighted to us 
which shows a link for the exclusions. This page also has a link to the summary box. When 
clicking on the link it says The information contained in this table summarises key product 
features and is not intended to replace any terms and conditions. It later says For further 
details please refer to the account terms and conditions. 
So it would be reasonable to expect Mr O to read the terms and conditions when they made 
it available to him under the important information section and referred to these in the 
summary box after he would have needed to click on the apply now button. Under section 
12.4.2 of the terms it says for balance transfers and money transfers, we need to approve 
your request. So as Sainsburys would need to approve a request, this would indicate 
balance transfers are not automatic and guaranteed to take place. 
On the page prior to the application details itself (such as name, address, etc), there is 
another important information section which says Once your application is approved, 
confirmation will be sent to you. This will include the terms and conditions for your 
Sainsburys Bank Credit Card Account.
This is what happened here. I can see Mr O was sent out a 30 page letter confirming he was 
accepted for the account. The first page confirms Youre nearly there, just a few more 
things. It goes on to list on the front page that he needed to read through his pre-contract 
information, his credit card agreement  an explanation, his credit card agreement and the 
general terms and conditions (which are the same as the current general terms and conditions). It then asks him to sign and date the credit card agreement if he is happy with 
the terms and the offer is right for him.
But page one of this letter also shows that under the Your transfer(s) section that We were 
unable to complete your requested transfer(s) at the time. So Im satisfied that it should 
have been clear to Mr O here that Sainsburys were unable to agree to his balance transfer 
from the third provider. While Ive read what he said about his charge card being rejected 
during the application process and the correct card wasnt rejected, this doesnt mean the 
request would automatically be accepted. When Sainsburys sent out the letter to him dated 
14 September, this confirmed that they were unable to complete his requested transfer.
Despite Sainsburys explaining on page one of Mr Os letter they were unable to complete 
his requested transfer, he still signed and dated the credit agreement and sent pages 23-30 
of this back to Sainsburys. Prior to the signature box, the credit agreement stated If you 
would like more information or have any other questions, please contact us using the details 
in the Contact Us section. So based on page one telling him the requested transfer couldnt 
be completed, it would have been proportionate for Mr O to contact Sainsburys prior to 
signing and sending back his credit agreement to them if he had any concerns about the 
balance transfer, especially as they had previously made it clear they need to approve 
transfers and they had indicated that not all transfers can be accepted.
Im not persuaded it would be proportionate for the terms and conditions to list all of the 
companies they wouldnt accept balance transfers from. And in this case, they do accept 
transfer requests with the third party provider Mr O was wanting to. But on this occasion, his 
card was not one of the cards they could accept from that provider. And Im satisfied they 
informed him of this in their letter dated 14 September 2022. And they had previously set 
expectations that any transfer requests are subject to their approval and arent all 
guaranteed. So it follows I dont require Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman