DRN-3358930
The complaint
Mrs L complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs L was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Loan start 
dateLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan term - 
monthsLoan 
status
3/3/2020 £1,200 £95.01 £2,280.24 24 outstanding
When Mrs L complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think that the 
lender had done anything wrong when it provided the loan. 
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view. She mainly said that 118 118 Money didnt 
properly assess affordability or do enough checks and had it done so, it wouldve seen she 
was relying on other loans and credit cards to help meet expenses.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money asked Mrs L about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that 118 118 Money 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mrs L. 118 118 Money was satisfied that its 
income and expenditure assessment showed that Mrs L should be able to make the 
repayments on her 118 118 Money loan out of her disposable income after paying her other 
monthly costs. So 118 118 Money felt this loan was affordable for Mrs L.
But I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the information it had gathered 
about Mrs Ls overall financial situation or the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in a 
sustainable manner. And I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mrs L based on the information its credit checks revealed. Despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mrs L had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think 118 118 Money shouldve realised that it couldnt rely 
on this information because it was significantly at odds with what 118 118 Money saw on its 
credit checks showing Mrs Ls credit history. 
Its credit checks showed she had recently taken out other unsecured and payday loans, she 
was over the limit on one of her credit cards and it looked like she had been relying 
extensively on using her credit cards for cash advances, which is a particularly expensive 
way to obtain spending money. 
118 118 Moneys checks also showed that Mrs L was paying two large Hire Purchase 
agreements. And I think 118 118 Money should have considered that her total debt already 
looked substantial compared to the amount of her income. 
118 118 Money understood that Mrs Ls monthly income was around £2,334. Mrs L thinks 
this figure over-states her actual income  but I can see that 118 118 Money obtained third 
party verification of this figure so I think it was reasonable for the lender to think this was a 
fair reflection of her monthly income and work out its affordability assessment based on this 
figure. But this still meant that 118 118 Money could see that the total credit repayments 
Mrs L needed to make when she took out this loan took her debt servicing costs to almost 
half her total monthly income, according to the figures 118 118 Money relied on. Bearing in 
mind that 118 118 Money thought Mrs L should have had spare cash each month there was 
no obvious explanation why Mrs L should apparently need to rely to this extent on using 
expensive credit.
I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision when it provided this loan based on 
the information it had in front of it. 
And even if 118 118 Money disagrees with me on this point, I think at the very least, it ought 
to have done more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mrs Ls 
financial situation given the contradictions between what she had said (or omitted to say), 
the amount of disposable income 118 118 Money thought she had and the record of 
borrowing its own credit checks revealed. 
So, Ive also looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mrs L are a useful guide to understanding her overall financial 
situation at the time. 
These confirm the indications apparent in the credit checks 118 118 Money had obtained 
that Mrs L was over-reliant in using credit to boost her income. Even so, her daily bank 
account balance in the months running up to her taking this loan was typically well under 
£100, on occasion she slipped into overdraft and I think its fair to say that her earnings were 
well below the monthly income figure 118 118 Money relied on - her bank statements show 
average pay was around £1,323. The balance of her income included benefits that were paid based on her earnings and 
circumstances and specifically intended to help cover other costs  not repay additional 
debt.  
As well as this, I think 118 118 Money should have recognised that, with the repayment for 
this loan as well, Mrs L was committed to spending such a significant proportion of her 
income just on servicing debt that there was a serious risk she wouldnt be able to meet her 
existing commitments without having to borrow again during the loan term. 
For all these reasons I believe that 118 118 Money shouldve realised that Mrs L wasnt in a 
position where her debt was sustainably affordable and it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
So, Im planning on upholding Mrs Ls complaint and telling 118 118 Money it needs to put 
things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs L has told me she has nothing further to add. 118 118 Money has confirmed it accepts 
my provisional decision. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and 118 118 Money for responding so promptly to my provisional decision and confirming 
acceptance. As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Mrs L hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 118 118 
Money acted unfairly towards Mrs L in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And its fair and reasonable for Mrs L to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending  but its unfair to expect her to repay any more 
than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If 118 118 Money has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what 
I have outlined below or otherwise, liaise with the new debt owner to do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs L received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mrs L made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mrs L having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs L bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically 
whilst its fair that Mrs Ls credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 
118 118 Money must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman