DRN-3954132
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd, trading as Animal Friends 
dealt with a claim he made on his pet insurance policy.
Although Mr J is represented by a family member in this complaint. In my decision, Ill only 
refer to Mr J.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr J and Animal Friends. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr J had a pet insurance policy with Animal Friends to cover his dog. The policy started on 
1 January 2022 and had a £1000 policy limit. In August 2022, Mr J contacted Animal Friends 
to enquire about increasing the policy limit mid-term - as his dog was likely going to require 
treatment.  
Mr J says the adviser gave incorrect information about being able to change the policy limit 
and he approved the vet carrying out urgent surgery based on this information. The total cost 
of treatment was approximately £6000. Animal Friends made a contribution of £1,000  as 
per the policy limit. 
Mr J raised a complaint and says if hed been given correct information, he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the surgery and now a family member has been left in debt as a result.
As Mr J remained unhappy with Animal Friends response, he referred his complaint to our 
Service for an independent review. Our Investigator didnt uphold the main part of this 
complaint (the outstanding claim), but did recommend that Animal Friends compensate Mr J 
£100 - to recognise that theyd caused some trouble and upset. Mr J didnt accept the 
recommended outcome, so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
Mr Js main argument is that he was given incorrect information about being able to change 
the policy limit and then he made a decision thats impacted him financially as a result of this 
information. Mr J says had he known that the policy limit couldnt be amended mid-term, hed 
have made a different decision about going ahead with the surgery. 
It's not in dispute that the Animal Friends adviser gave incorrect information initially. Both 
parties have provided relevant call recordings. But Im satisfied that in the later call (around 
an hour later) the correct information was given. This was that in line with the policy terms, 
the policy limit could only be amended at renewal. Crucially, this was the evening before the 
surgery took place  Thursday 8 August 2022. 
Mr J has told us he let the vets know of the decision to go ahead with the surgery at around 
4pm the evening before the surgery. Whilst I understand what Mr J has told us about his 
financial circumstances meaning he wouldnt have been able to fund the operation, Ive seen 
no supporting evidence that he took any reasonable steps to try and mitigate potential 
financial losses once he was fully aware the policy limit couldnt be increased (mid-term) and 
the full cost of the procedure wouldnt be covered. For example, Mr J has told our Service 
the vets was closing, but a quick search online suggests that theyre open until 8pm, Monday 
 Friday. Ive also kept in mind that generally, given the nature of 24 hour care for 
pets/animals, vets need to be contactable out of hours. 
This aside, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Mr J to contact the vets that evening, or 
first thing the following morning to prevent the surgery going ahead  if that was his decision 
based on having the knowledge that the policy would only cover any costs up to £1000. In a 
hypothetical scenario where Mr J did prevent the surgery going ahead and faced a late 
cancellation charge, Id have considered directing Animal Friends to cover this cost.  
In summary, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I find that Animal Friends only 
needed to indemnify Mr J up to the £1000 policy limit. 
I acknowledge that Mr J has been caused some avoidable trouble and upset here because 
of what Animal Friends initially communicated to him. I find that £100 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate compensation to recognise whats gone wrong here. Ive noted Mr Js 
comments following our Investigators assessment:
They are to blame for the ongoing stress my family are going through, trying to 
afford vet bills due to their agent error that they choose not to rectify.
But for the reasons Ive already explained, the award of £100 is for the initial wrong 
information being given and not for any impact after this was clarified. 
My decision will disappoint Mr J, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve this dispute between Mr J and Animal Friends.
Putting things right
Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd, trading as Animal Friends needs to pay Mr J £100 in 
recognition of the impact of their actions. Specifically, the loss of expectation and frustration 
caused.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd, trading as Animal 
Friends to follow my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Daniel O'SheaOmbudsman