DRN-2568861
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions, which he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr L is disputing multiple online payments, totalling £1,520, from his current account to two 
online gambling merchants.  The payments were made on 16 February 2019 at 2.11am and 
between 12pm and 3pm. One of the accounts was opened the same day. There were 18 
payments in total and they varied in amounts between £20 and £500. Three transactions 
were declined due to insufficient funds in Mr Ls account at the time. These were for 
amounts of £500, £100 and £20.
Mr L raised a fraud complaint with Nationwide the same day at 7.42 pm. He said hed gone 
fishing that day and was out all day. He said he had his debit card with him and used it while 
fishing.  On the 15 February 2019, hed gone to bed early because he needed to get up early 
to go fishing the next day. His card was with him at home. 
He asked Nationwide for a refund.
Nationwide investigated his complaint and decided not to refund the disputed payments. It 
said there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr L had made the payments 
himself because:
his debit card details were used to set up the account with the gambling merchants. 
One of the gambling merchants provided personal details for the account e.g. name, 
address, date of birth. The personal details matched the details it held on file for Mr 
L.
The transactions were consistent with other gambling activity on his account.
The disputed payments were made from an IP address, which he had used to log in 
to his mobile banking on numerous occasions.
He was logging in to his mobile banking throughout 16 February 2019 and he would 
have seen the disputed transactions. However, he didnt report them until later that 
evening.
As Mr L didnt agree with Nationwides decision, he asked this service to investigate. He told 
this service that he believes his ex-girlfriend made the payments, as part of a long-standing 
campaign of harassment against him, which has involved the police. He said he doesnt 
have Wi-Fi at home. He said he usually logs in to his mobile banking via the app on his 
phone, but occasionally he uses the browser on his phone to access his mobile banking. He 
said his mobile network provider is Giffgaff. 
An investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
that it was more likely that someone he knew made the transactions without his consent 
because:
the physical card wasnt needed to make the payments, only the card details.
The personal details used to open the account with one of the merchants were easy 
to get. Anyone who knew him couldve opened the account with that information.
The mobile phone number and email address on the account were different to the 
details held by Nationwide.
The IP address used for the disputed payments was different to the IP address used 
to login to his mobile banking. Our investigator said that as they covered different 
regions, he couldnt be in two places at the same time.
There are no payments indicating he has Wi-Fi. But there are payments to Giffgaff
He hadnt used these gambling merchants before. He was a regular user of different 
merchants.
When he logged in, he saw the pending transactions but thought they were 
transactions hed made the previous day.
Mr L had also disputed a payment to Microsoft for an Xbox game. This transaction was 
made on 16 February 2019 at 2.06 am. However, he said his card details may have been 
stored on the Xbox. As he said this game was bought for his sons benefit, the investigator 
decided not to ask Nationwide to refund it.
Nationwide didnt accept the investigators view. It said it could link him to the IP address 
which was used to make the disputed payments. The IP address covered a region where his 
ex-girlfriend lives with their children. Nationwide said hed logged in to his mobile banking 
from that address on other dates and notably on 2 March 2019, when he used the same IP 
address over a period of around 9 hours.
It said the IP addresses he normally used for mobile banking looked as though it was his 
phones network. Nationwide believes the logins were carried out using his mobile data. This 
means he could have been in his ex-girlfriends house when he logged in on 16 February 
2019.
Also, it said he last used his card at a fishing venue and tackle shop on 16 February 2019 at 
8.07am. The location was approximately two hours drive from his ex-girlfriends home town. 
The value of the transaction suggested he bought equipment but not a day ticket for fishing. 
It asked him to provide proof that hed purchased a ticket for fishing, but he couldnt provide 
any ticket.
Nationwide commented that its not uncommon for people to have different email addresses 
and, according to its records, he did change his mobile phone number frequently.
Nationwide also said that the pattern of activity was consistent with previous gambling 
activity. For example, on 13 February 2019 he completed transactions totalling £850 in just 
under an hour. And he hadnt used other gambling merchants for long periods. His 
relationship with one business was only 2-3 months long before the disputed transactions 
occurred and there were other merchants which he used for very short periods of time (a day 
each).
Nationwide has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 December 2020. I decided that, on balance, it was 
more likely that Mr L had made the payments and that it was fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to refuse to refund him.
Mr L didnt accept my decision. He maintains that his ex-girlfriend made the disputed 
payments and he said he never had an iPhone 8.Nationwide responded by send us the mobile banking audit report again, but this time with 
the iPhone 8 highlighted in the report.
This case has now come back to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im afraid I havent changed my decision. 
Ive already explained to Mr L that there are laws which say that Nationwide is required 
under to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. This law is the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).  But the regulations also say that Nationwide can hold 
Mr L liable for any disputed transactions, if the evidence suggests that its more likely than 
not that he made or authorised them himself.
Im satisfied from Nationwides reports that the disputed payments were authenticated with 
Mr Ls card details  the long card number, the expiry date and the three-digit CVV number. 
But the regulations say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to hold him 
liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than 
not that Mr L made the payments.
And from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Mr L 
authorised the transactions. This is because
his debit card details were registered to the account with one of the gambling 
merchants. We know from experience in other cases that this usually means that any 
winnings would be paid into his bank account. And I can that other merchants had 
paid winnings into his account. So, I cant see any reason why his ex-girlfriend would 
use his card details for bets, if she wasnt going to benefit from any winnings. 
One of the merchants provided the IP address from which the disputed payments 
were made. The same IP address was found in Nationwides audit report for his 
mobile banking.  This evidence shows that Mr L had used the same IP address to log 
in to his mobile banking on numerous other occasions, for example on 23 February 
2019 and 2 March 2019. The IP address covers the region where his ex-girlfriend 
lives.
His own evidence was that he uses his mobile data and not a Wi-Fi network. He also 
said he used the Wi-Fi when at his ex-girlfriends home. So, it was possible he was at 
his ex-girlfriends home on 16 February 2019 and simultaneously logging in to his 
online banking via his mobile data.
The disputed activity is consistent with all other gambling activity on his account, both 
before and after the disputed transactions. For example:
o9 Feb 2019 - £40 spend
o9 Feb 2019 - £450 credit 
o10 Feb 2019 - £430 spend 
o10 Feb 2019 - £200 spend 
o11 Feb 2019 - £660 credit 
o11 Feb 2019  £575 credit o11 Feb 2019 - £590 spend 
o12 Feb 2019 - £1,150 credit 
o13 Feb 2019 - £850 spend 
o14 Feb 2019 - £100 spend 
o15 Feb 2019 - £850 spend 
o15 Feb 2019 - £1,650 credit 
He had a habit of using several other gambling merchants for short periods of time, 
so the disputed payments were not out of character for the account.
There was sufficient time to get from the fishing tackle shop to his ex-girlfriends 
home town.
Mr L told this service the disputed transactions were made with an iPhone8 and that 
he doesnt own an iPhone 8. However, Nationwides audit for his mobile banking 
shows that from 9 February 2019 to 11 March 2019 he logged in frequently from an 
iPhone 8. And he logged in on 16 February 2019 with an iPhone 8.
The logins on 16 February 2019 occurred around the same time as the disputed 
payments. He wouldve seen the disputed payments, yet he didnt raise any concerns 
until later that day at 7.42pm.
Ive considered Mr Ls evidence that his ex-girlfriend made the disputed payments. I asked 
Mr L if he asked her to pay back the money. He said she denied making the payments. He 
didnt report her to the police but reported the transactions to Nationwide, even though the 
police later became involved in their relationship. He originally told us that he usually visited 
his children at the weekend at their home and whilst there he would hang his jacket 
downstairs and his wallet was in the pocket of his jacket. This implies there was an 
opportunity for his ex-girlfriend to remove his card and note down the details.
However, he said he wasnt at his ex-girlfriends house on 16 February 2019. He said she 
must have planned the fraud on an earlier visit. Im afraid I find it hard to believe she would 
wait a week, if not longer, before using the card details and that she would use it for 
gambling instead of buying goods, although Mr L suggests she did this to spite him rather 
than to benefit.
He also told us he hadnt been back since his last visit, which was before 16 February 2019. 
Yet, according to the mobile banking audit, he logged on from the IP address linked to his 
ex-girlfriends house on 2 March 2019 and was using it for nine hours. I appreciate he visits 
his children, but the evidence suggests that perhaps the relationship with his ex-girlfriend is 
not as acrimonious as he says it is. 
Mr L also maintains that he didnt  and doesnt - own an iPhone 8. Ive looked at the audit 
report for his mobile banking. It clearly shows an iPhone 8. I asked Mr L how his ex-girlfriend 
would know his log in details, if it were her phone. He replied vaguely that hed left 
paperwork in her loft. Im afraid I dont think his ex-girlfriend was logging on to his mobile 
banking.
All in all, Im afraid I dont find Mr Ls testimony to be persuasive or credible.  Ultimately, I 
must base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. On balance, 
considering all the evidence, including the technical evidence and Mr Ls spending habit, I 
think its more likely than not that he authorised the disputed payments. I think its fair and 
reasonable, therefore, for Nationwide to refuse a refund.  
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr L, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman