DRN-3867357
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has treated her in relation to 
the application of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
What happened
Mrs J was looking to move property. She already held a mortgage with Barclays with a 
remaining term of approximately 14 years. Roughly half the total outstanding balance was on 
a tracker rate (base rate plus 0.59%) to the end of the mortgage term and roughly half on a 
fixed rate (2.19% to 31 October 2024). 
Initially, Mrs J was intending to buy a house where she was looking to port both parts of her 
existing mortgage. However, she then decided to buy a smaller property, where she would 
only need to borrow approximately half of the amount that she owed. 
Following advice from a Barclays mortgage adviser, Mrs J ported the tracker rate part of her 
mortgage to the new property, repaying the fixed rate part in the process. Mrs J checked 
with the mortgage adviser whether an ERC would apply and she was told that it wouldnt.
Subsequent to this, the redemption statement sent to her solicitor included an ERC of 
£1,816.98. Mrs J transferred the redemption amount less the ERC, on the basis that she had 
been told no ERC would apply and she assumed it had been added in error. Barclays sent 
Mrs J a letter saying it was happy to confirm that she had paid off one of her mortgage 
accounts.  
However, in August 2021, Barclays contacted Mrs Js solicitor to say there was an 
outstanding balance and that Mrs J did need to pay the ERC. Mrs J forwarded this to the 
mortgage adviser, who again told her that no ERC was payable. Subsequent 
correspondence between Mrs J and the mortgage adviser suggests that someone at 
Barclays told Mrs Js solicitors that Mrs J needed to pay the fee and it would then 
subsequently be refunded.  
Correspondence between Mrs Js solicitor and the mortgage adviser followed, with the 
solicitor telling the mortgage adviser that the buyers application to land registry for title of the 
property sold to them by Mrs J, was going to be cancelled, because there was an 
outstanding charge, caused by the unpaid ERC amount. 
The mortgage adviser said he still understood that no ERC was applicable and it appears he 
tried to engage with other departments within Barclays to get the matter resolved, but didnt 
get anywhere. He offered to raise a complaint on Mrs Js half, which she agreed to. 
Barclays issued a final response letter in February 2022. In summary, it said that the ERC 
was payable but that it could see there had been some errors made with regards to how this 
had been communicated. It offered £200 to reflect this. 
Mrs J says she didnt receive the letter, but was sent a copy by the mortgage adviser. Mrs J 
remained unhappy because she was adamant Barclays had told her no ERC would apply. 
Although unhappy with the situation, she rang to make payment, because she was 
becoming increasingly concerned about the impact of not having paid the ERC  in that the 
buyers of the property she had sold were still having difficulties registering title of the 
property, because of the remaining charge on it. 
Mrs J tried to make payment on multiple occasions in April 2022, but on each occasion she 
was told by the Barclays representative she was speaking to, that she couldnt pay because 
the suggestion she needed to pay to then be refunded didnt make sense to them  and they 
needed to check what was happening. Mrs J was told her complaint was being re-opened 
because it wasnt clear that the ERC shouldve been applied. Mrs J was promised call backs, 
but it appears she didnt then hear anything further from Barclays
Mrs J referred her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator here 
looked into things and issued an opinion. In summary, they said that based on the 
information contained with the mortgage offer in 2019 for the fixed rate part of Mrs Js 
mortgage, an ERC was payable in the event that the mortgage was repaid before 
31 October 2024 (which it had been). As such, it was fair for Barclays to charge the ERC.
They said that had Mrs J been given the correct information, it was most likely she would still 
have chosen to port the lower tracker rate and repay the fixed rate, including the ERC. 
However, from 30 March 2021 onwards, there were a number of errors in the way Barclays 
communicated with Mrs J about the application of an ERC. Given these errors and the 
considerable inconvenience caused to Mrs J, Barclays should pay £500 compensation. The 
investigator added that Barclays should refund Mrs J any additional solicitor fees incurred 
after 10 June 2021, that would not have been part of a standard sale / purchase. 
Barclays didnt provide a response. Mrs J did. In summary, she said it still didnt seem fair 
that Barclays could charge the ERC after repeatedly telling her one wouldnt apply. She also  
challenged the notion that she would still have gone ahead with porting the tracker and 
paying the ERC, saying that had she known an ERC would be payable, she would have 
explored the available options and found a way to avoid it. She also didnt think that £500 
was enough, given the amount of time and effort shed put into trying to resolve matters, with 
no help from Barclays along the way.
The investigator said theyd looked at what other options Mrs J had regarding the mortgage 
and, in summary, there didnt appear to be a better option at the time. They said that if Mrs J 
had ported the fixed rate part of the mortgage instead (notwithstanding that this wouldnt 
have been for exactly the same amount), this wouldve resulted in Mrs J paying more 
interest during the fixed rate period, such that there was little difference in the two scenarios. 
The investigator also explained why they thought the £500 theyd recommended was fair 
(and a significant amount in the context of the type of complaint being brought) and shared 
links to guidance on our web-site relating to compensation bandings and examples. 
Mrs J asked for the case to be escalated to an Ombudsman. She questioned why we hadnt 
insisted that Barclays provide call recordings from when she made contact with Barclays in 
April 2022. The investigator explained that they hadnt deemed it necessary to request the 
calls and had accepted what Mrs J has said took place during those calls. The investigator 
did though request the calls and these were received and added to the complaint file.
The investigator then asked Barclays if it would consider releasing the charge, pending the 
outcome of the complaint. Barclays declined to do this, on the basis that the ERC amount 
was still outstanding. Mrs J then let us know that she had unfortunately had an accident, resulting in quite serious 
injury  such that it would mean she couldnt work for a considerable period of time. She was 
still worried about the impact of the ERC being unpaid on the buyers of her property and that 
she wanted to make payment. But that, because of the accident, while she would still be 
able to meet her normal mortgage repayments, she would struggle to be able to make the 
ERC payment in one go and would need to explore being able to pay it off in instalments. 
The investigator recently wrote to Barclays to ask it if it would release the charge and allow 
Mrs J to begin making payments on an instalment basis, pending the Ombudsmans review 
(and on the understanding that if the Ombudsman said the ERC shouldnt be payable, any 
such instalment payments would be refunded).  
The case was passed to me to decide. I issued a Provisional Decision in November 2011. In 
it, I said:
There are three fundamental issues to consider here:
-Was an ERC payable?
-If it was, what would most likely have happened had Mrs J been given correct 
information about this before she proceeded with the mortgage on the new property?
-What level of compensation is appropriate in this case?
Was an ERC payable?
When buying her new property, Mrs J ported the tracker rate part of her mortgage and 
repaid the fixed rate element. Ive seen the mortgage offer for the fixed rate part of the 
mortgage taken out in 2019. It says that an ERC of 3% is payable if the mortgage is 
redeemed in full before 31 October 2024. This happened and so an ERC was payable. 
What would most likely have happened had Mrs J been given correct information about this?
It isnt possible to say with certainly what would have happened if Barclays had given Mrs J 
correct information about the ERC, before she proceeded with the mortgage for her new 
property. The investigator said they thought it most likely Mrs J would still have ported the 
tracker element of her mortgage and paid the ERC. Mrs J hasnt said she would definitely 
have taken a particular course of action, but she has said that she would have explored all 
the options, in order to avoid paying an unnecessary fee. 
I accept the principle of this. However, from looking at approximate figures for how much 
extra interest Mrs J wouldve faced paying had she ported the fixed rate element of the 
mortgage instead, it appears as though there is little difference between this and the ERC 
amount. 
Mrs J has said she wouldve explored porting both part of the fixed rate mortgage and part of 
the tracker, in such a way as to avoid paying the ERC. This may have been possible. But 
even if it was, as things stand, it still doesnt look (in the round) as though this wouldve been 
viewed at the time as an obviously better option to take.  
Mrs J has also said that she wouldve looked to make overpayments to further optimise her 
situation. I dont disbelieve that she may have looked to do this (particularly as she has said 
that she has a history of making overpayments), but this is a variable one step removed from 
the core decision of which mortgage to port and so I dont think I can reasonably take this 
into account, with the benefit of hindsight.  Bearing all of this in mind, I cant be sure that if Mrs J has been given correct information, 
that she would likely have taken a particular alternative course of action at the time and 
without the benefit of hindsight. 
What level of compensation is appropriate in this case?
An award for distress and inconvenience is an inherently subjective exercise. However, 
given the numerous errors made by Barclays and the impact this has had on Mrs J, I 
currently think that the amount of compensation should be increased to a total of £600. This 
is towards the top end of the range where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot 
of extra effort to sort out.
Mrs J has spent a considerable amount of time and effort trying to get to the bottom of this 
issue  caused by Barclays repeatedly giving her incorrect information. In addition, Mrs J 
has said the knock-on impact of the issue on her buyers in terms of them not being able to 
register title on the property she sold, has caused her considerable upset, worry and 
embarrassment. I accept this to be the case. 
Putting things right
I am currently minded to say that Barclays should:
-Pay Mrs J £600 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.
-Remove the charge straight away and agree a suitable repayment plan for Mrs J to 
repay the ERC amount over a reasonable period of time, bearing in mind the 
vulnerable situation she finds herself in, due to her recent accident and injury. To 
note  this should only be the original ERC of £1,816.98 i.e. no interest should be 
added.
-Refund Mrs J any solicitor fees incurred after 10 June 2021 that would not have been 
part of a standard sale / purchase. In order for Barclays to pay any such charges, 
Mrs J will need to provide a letter or e-mail from her solicitors with details of the 
charges.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 14 December 2021. 
Mrs J replied to say she accepted my provisional findings as a reasonable conclusion to her 
complaint. Barclays appeared to request more time to respond  to 19 December. 
Barclays then provided a further submission. It said that if Mrs J was unable to repay the 
ERC, she could contact Barclays Customer Home Assistance (CHA) team, who may be 
able to set up a repayment plan. It said the team would need to complete a full income and 
expenditure assessment to understand how much Mrs J could afford to repay each month. It 
also said that if a plan is agreed with the CHA, this would impact Mrs Js credit file. 
Barclays did not reference my Provisional Decision in its submission and I think its possible 
it was actually a reply to the investigators correspondence to Barclays before I issued my 
Provisional Decision  where the investigator asked Barclays if it would release the charge 
straight away and allow Mrs J to repay the ERC in instalments. 
In any case, Barclays has had more than enough time to respond to my Provisional 
Decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reach the same overall outcome as my Provisional Decision (details of 
which are included above and form part of this decision), for the same reasons. 
I still find that there are three fundamental issues to decide in this case:
- Was an ERC payable?
- If it was, what would most likely have happened had Mrs J been given correct 
information about this before she proceeded with the mortgage on the new property?
- What level of compensation is appropriate in this case?
Was an ERC payable?
Neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in relation to this point, so I 
see no need to depart from my provisional findings. The mortgage offer for the fixed rate part 
of the mortgage taken out in 2019 says that an ERC of 3% is payable if the mortgage is 
redeemed in full before 31 October 2024. This happened and so an ERC was payable.
What would most likely have happened had Mrs J been given correct information about this?
Again, neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in relation to this point, 
so I see no need to depart from my provisional findings. For the reasons set out in my 
Provisional Decision, I still cant be sure that if Mrs J had been given correct information, that 
she would likely have taken a particular alternative course of action at the time and without 
the benefit of hindsight. 
What level of compensation is appropriate in this case?
Again, neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in relation to this point, 
so once more I see no need to depart from my provisional findings. For the reasons set out 
in my provisional findings, the amount of compensation should be increased to a total of 
£600.
Other matters
Regarding what Barclays said in its most recent correspondence. Although its not clear that 
Barclays latest correspondence was intended as a response to my Provisional Decision, 
what it has said is relevant to the issue of what it needs to do to put things right. 
In my provisional findings, I said that I was minded to say Barclays should agree a suitable 
repayment plan for Mrs J to repay the ERC amount over a reasonable period of time, 
bearing in mind the vulnerable situation she finds herself in, due to her recent accident and 
injury.
I do not consider that it would be unreasonable for Barclays to carry out an income and 
expenditure assessment to inform what a suitable repayment plan would look like, including 
what represents a reasonable period of time (which is interlinked with any regular amounts it 
is agreed Mrs J can afford to repay). However, it would not be fair for the setting up of a 
repayment plan to have any adverse impact on Mrs Js credit file.I say this because despite being unhappy that Barclays was saying that she needed to pay 
the ERC (having been told on numerous occasions this wouldnt be the case), Mrs J did 
contact Barclays on a number of occasions to make the payment, before referring her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Barclays wouldnt accept a payment from 
her. Had Barclays accepted a payment from Mrs J at those times (which given that an ERC 
was payable, it reasonably should), the amount wouldve been repaid and Mrs J would not 
find herself in the situation she is in now.
Putting things right
Bearing all of this in mind, Barclays needs to do the following:
- Pay Mrs J £600 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.
- Remove the charge straight away and agree a suitable repayment plan for Mrs J to 
repay the ERC amount over a reasonable period of time, bearing in mind the 
vulnerable situation she finds herself in, due to her recent accident and injury. To 
note  this should only be the original ERC of £1,816.98 i.e. no interest should be 
added.
- Refund Mrs J any solicitor fees incurred after 10 June 2021 that would not have been 
part of a standard sale / purchase. In order for Barclays to pay any such charges, 
Mrs J will need to provide a letter or e-mail from her solicitors with details of the 
charges.
- Not report any negative information to credit reference agencies in relation to the 
setting up or operation of a repayment plan in relation to the repayment of the ERC. 
In relation to the third bullet point, Mrs J hasnt provided any evidence of additional solicitor 
costs, so it seems unlikely there are any. However, the principle still stands. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and I direct 
it to do what Ive said above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman