DRN-4185688
The complaint
Ms M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) provided poor service 
during a claim under her car breakdown assistance policy. When I mention Admiral I also 
mean its recovery agents.
Ms M is represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Ms M had a roadside recovery insurance policy with Admiral covering her car.
Her car broke down in the late evening in February 2023 and she called Admiral to make a 
claim. Admiral attended and its technician tried to diagnose the problem. Ms M told him she 
may have mis-fuelled it. He thought it was a problem with the cars wiring. 
The technician recovered Ms Ms car to her home.
The following day Ms M asked Admiral to take her car to a repairer. This was charged at 
£116.17 to her. 
It was later diagnosed that Ms M had put the incorrect fuel into her car. She paid about £600 
to drain, repair and refill her car.
Ms M wasnt happy with Admirals service and she complained.
Admiral upheld part of her complaint and it said its phonelines had been faulty at the time. It 
said it would pay her £30 compensation. But it said itd acted according to its policy wording 
during the claim.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He thought Admiral had acted in line with its terms 
and conditions. He thought its offer of £30 compensation was fair.
Ms M didnt accept the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
a disappointment to her at a time when she has had a significant repair bill to pay. Ill explain 
why Ive made this decision.
Ive read the policy wording carefully at the cover Ms M had bought. I can see that it provides 
the following cover:
If you break down more than a quarter of a mile radius from your home address 
within the territorial limits (UK), we will send a breakdown mechanic.
If, in the opinion of the breakdown mechanic, they are unable to repair the vehicle at 
the roadside we will arrange for you to be recovered to your chosen destination
I know Ms M told Admiral she thought shed mis-fuelled her car, but Admiral will have a 
process to follow to check what had happened to it and provide its service. For Ms M, this 
meant the technician checking the cars systems which reported a problem with its wiring.
Ultimately, Admiral provided service to Ms M by taking her home which I think its reasonably 
entitled to do under its policy wording. It doesnt guarantee a repair. 
At the time of night of the claim, that was the only option available to her. Admiral said it 
couldnt have fixed the mis-fuelling issue at the roadside.
I can see theres cover for mis-fuelling under the policy. But the cover given by Admiral for 
this is dependent on the customer realising theyve mis-fuelled the car before driving it off. In 
Ms Ms case, shed driven and then her car had broken down  making it a breakdown rather 
than a mis-fuelling claim. 
Misfuel assist
In the event you misfuel your vehicle, you must contact us before you start your 
vehicle.
I can see Ms M has provided some cover details as part of her approach to this service  
this cover doesnt seem to be the same as the policy she bought with Admiral. Im not certain 
where its from, but I think it may be from a cover arranged directly with Admirals recovery 
agents. 
Admiral are only obliged to provide the service referred to in its policy wording, and I cant 
reasonably say its mis-fuelling cover would have applied here because Ms Ms car had been 
started, driven and then broken down.
Ms M had complained about Admirals technician mis-diagnosing the problem and while I 
agree that she reasonably told him what the problem probably was, the end result was most 
likely the same. Her car couldnt be started again without damaging the engine, and it 
couldnt be repaired at the roadside, so the only option was recovery. And due to the late 
hour, this had to be to her home rather than a repairer.
Ms M has also complained about the charge for the second recovery. If I turn to the policy 
wording, it says:
Any recovery must take place at the same time as the initial callout otherwise you 
will have to pay for subsequent callout charges.
I appreciate Ms M might not have understood this point fully when her car was recovered 
home after the breakdown, but shed have needed to arrange recovery of it to the repairer in 
due course anyway. So I dont think the end result would have been substantially different.
I can see Admiral had issues with its phonelines meaning Ms M struggled to get through to 
it. Its apologised for these problems and paid Ms M £30. Ultimately Ms M was able to get 
assistance, so I think her inconvenience was minor and Admirals response is fair.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman