DRN-2135697
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Lloyds Bank Plc refused his Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(s75), claim for compensation for a holiday that he says was misrepresented and of poor 
quality.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr Q booked a five-night stay in a 3-star hotel as part of a longer holiday 
abroad. He paid for the hotel with the credit card he had with Lloyds. 
On arriving at the hotel Mr Q says that he found the accommodation was unsafe due to a fire 
door not shutting correctly, wires being exposed from plugs and an ill-fitting fuse box cover. 
Mr Q also says that the hotel was tatty and substandard in its furnishings and fittings and the 
WIFI signal was slow or non-existent. He says he was also concerned about the safety of 
the environment surrounding the hotel as there were a number of homeless people and 
beggars present.
Mr Q complained to the hotel about his room and this was changed, though he says the new 
room was also of poor quality. He also complained about the state of the WIFI and was 
advised by the hotel that usually there was a charge for this service but, as it was in the 
process of being upgraded and this had affected the available connection, it was free to 
customers. The hotel told Mr Q that if he was unhappy, and wished to check out early, it 
would refund the unused part of his stay. Mr Q remained at the hotel for the full five nights.
On returning home Mr Q complained to Lloyds and asked it to refund him £100 as 
compensation for his loss of enjoyment due to the state of the hotel. Lloyds declined Mr Qs 
claim. It said that, under the chargeback system, a refund wasnt appropriate as the service 
had been supplied to Mr Q. It said that a refund had also been considered under s75 but 
declined. This was because the WIFI was normally chargeable by the hotel but, on this 
occasion, had been offered free due to the upgrade, so there was no breach of contract as 
to its provision. Lloyds said that Mr Q had declined the offer by the hotel of leaving early and, 
based on the star rating, it wasnt able to look at this on a quality basis.
Mr Q disagreed with the view taken by Lloyds and complained to this service. He provided 
photos of the parts of the hotel that had particularly concerned him.
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said, on the 
evidence provided, she didnt think thered been a breach of contract, or misrepresentation 
which had induced Mr Q into booking the hotel. And so, she thought Lloyds had acted fairly 
when declining his claim.
Our investigator said Mr Q had raised a number of issues he felt were health and safety 
breaches, such as the fire door not closing and some exposed wires, but there was no 
evidence the hotel had been in breach of any local laws. She didnt agree that the photos 
showed things that were actually inherently dangerous.
In regard to the dcor and fittings she accepted that these may be dated but said she 
couldnt say there were of unsatisfactory quality. She said items that were old and dated 
didnt necessarily mean they were faulty or broken. There was no evidence that the hotel 
had been unclear in the way it had advertised itself.
The hotel had been located in a downtown section of a large city, and the investigator said 
the quality of the neighbourhood wasnt within the hotels control. She didnt think the 
presence of homeless people, or beggars would be unusual in this environment. The hotel 
had clearly advertised its location.
Mr Q disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the hotel had advertised itself as 
being 3-star but it had been substandard and dangerous. He provided a review from another 
hotel guest that had been posted on the internet.
As the parties havent been able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances s75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim a refund against the 
supplier of goods, or services and the provider of credit if there has been a 
misrepresentation, or a breach of contract by the supplier. My role is to look at whether 
Lloyds handled Mr Qs claim fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the photos provided by Mr Q, as well as his comments about the quality of the 
hotel. I appreciate he was disappointed that his expectations about the hotel were not met, 
but I havent seen enough evidence to say that the hotel overall, or Mr Qs room, was of less 
than 3-star quality. Mr Q has provided a copy of anonymous review left on a website, but I 
am not able to attach weight to that as I dont know the circumstances of why the complaint 
was made, or who made it and I cant say it matched Mr Qs experience in regard to some of 
the issues raised. 
I also appreciate Mr Q considered the hotel was unsafe in various respects and has provided 
photos of a fire door that appears ajar, wires exposed from a cracked plastic case and an ill-
fitting metal cover to a fuse box. But Im not able to say that any of these things were 
inherently dangerous, for instance the wires appear to all be sheathed and I cant say the fire 
door didnt work. So, Im not satisfied on the evidence provided that the hotel was a 
dangerous environment and a risk to Mr Qs health and safety.
I think the investigator has fully addressed the issues regarding the location of the hotel and I 
agree with what she says about the surroundings, so I am not going to add to what has 
already been said about the neighbourhood of the hotel. I think the hotels description of 
where it was placed was accurate.
Looking at the provision of the WIFI, the hotel doesnt advertise that as part of the room rate 
and its usually charged as an extra. Due to the issues the hotel was having at the time Mr Q 
stayed it was provided free, so I dont think that would form part of a contract between the 
hotel and Mr Q. The hotel hadnt guaranteed a WIFI speed to Mr Q when hed booked the 
room.
I appreciate that Mr Qs concerns about the hotel led to him being disappointed and 
impacted on his overall enjoyment, but I cant say he didnt get the benefit of the services hed paid for, or that they werent available and so there was no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
Ive seen that Lloyds considered whether Mr Q would be entitled to a chargeback, as well as 
considering a claim under s75, and I think this was a fair and reasonable approach. For the 
reasons given above, as I dont think there was a breach of contract, or a misrepresentation 
of the hotel and Im not upholding Mr Qs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman