DRN-1393211
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms K complain that they were mis-sold a Black Horse Life Homeowner policy 
by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In 1995 Mr and Ms K applied for a mortgage with Lloyds which they were initially turned 
down for. But soon after they were visited in their home by some sales staff who explained 
that the mortgage could in fact be arranged providing they took out the life cover policy in 
question as security. Mr and Ms K were unhappy with this as they felt they didn't need the 
cover, as they had plenty of equity in other properties. They say they also felt pressured into 
proceeding with the arrangement.
They went ahead with the mortgage and cover, maintaining it until April 1997, at which point 
I understand they sold the mortgaged property and cancelled the policy. 
In 2019, they made a complaint about the sale of the policy, but Lloyds didn't uphold it. In 
brief, Lloyds said that given the date of the sale it was likely the cover had been a 
requirement of the lending. And Mr and Ms K would've been able to approach alternative 
lenders if they'd not wanted the cover. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Lloyds. She agreed that the life cover would most likely have been a requirement, and 
she noted that also it correctly matched the mortgage borrowing. 
Mr and Ms K remained unhappy and reiterated their points about the unsatisfactory nature of 
the meeting at their home - that they felt rushed into the agreement and unfairly exploited as 
they had enough equity in their properties to act as security. 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her view. She noted Mr and Ms K's concerns 
about the meeting, but she felt they could've asked for it to be rearranged if they'd not been 
happy. She also noted that Lloyds was entitled to set the commercial terms of its lending. 
Further, she highlighted that Mr and Ms K had signed a file note to confirm that no advice 
was given, suggesting Lloyds' responsibilities were limited to providing them with clear 
information, which the investigator felt Lloyds did through the provision of the Key Facts 
documents and other literature. 
Mr and Ms K remained unhappy. So, because no agreement could be reached, the matter's 
been referred to me to review. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
While I have no reason to doubt Mr and Ms K's recollections of how the sale was made, 
without any independent evidence to support what they've said about the circumstances it's 
difficult for me to reasonably conclude that Lloyds acted incorrectly. The documentary 
evidence - although limited by virtue of it now being 25 years since the sale - shows a life 
cover policy that correctly matched the terms of the mortgage and that would've provided 
valuable benefit to Mr and Ms K if something had happened to either of them. 
But more important is the fact that the cover was a condition of the borrowing - a very 
commonplace requirement of lenders at the time of the sale. This was confirmed in the 
mortgage offer letter of 20 June 1995. So, it's unlikely Mr and Ms K would've been able to 
obtain the required borrowing elsewhere without paying for cover in any event.
As such, while I recognise Mr and Ms K's strength of feeling about the matter, I don't think I 
can reasonably conclude, on balance, that Lloyds acted incorrectly and mis-sold the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman