DRN-2594692
The complaint
Ms P complains about the service she got from British Gas Insurance Limited after making a 
claim on her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ps home emergency insurance policy with British Gas gave her cover for her boiler, 
controls and central heating, plus repairs to her plumbing, drains and home electrics. 
Ms P called British Gas out in February 2020 because her water tank was leaking. On a first 
visit, an engineer made the tank safe but said it needed to be replaced.
In early March, another engineer replaced the tank. Some days later, Ms P noticed a leak 
from the new tank and was also concerned about exposed wiring. She contacted British Gas 
about these things. Because of the new leak, Ms P also emptied some of her cupboards, 
putting some of their contents in her bath. This damaged the bath.
On the same day Ms P reported the new leak, British Gas says it sent out a plumber, a gas 
engineer and an electrician. It says the plumber found Ms Ps carpets were wet but couldnt 
find a leak, the gas engineer drained the system and fitted a new pump and the electrician 
dealt with the exposed wiring. British Gas says all was left in good working order.
A week or so later, Ms P contacted British Gas again to say the tank was still leaking. But 
neither British Gas engineers nor the other agents it sent to Ms Ps home could find a leak 
from the tank. Ms P says the leak continued after these visits but, because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, she couldnt let British Gas into her home to investigate further. From towards the 
end of March 2020, Ms P therefore turned off her central heating and it stayed off for the 
next few months.
In July 2020, a British Gas customer delivery officer visited Ms Ps home twice about the 
leak. British Gas says he didnt make any repairs. Ms P says he did. Since then, I 
understand Ms P hasnt reported any further leaks from the tank.
Ms P complained to British Gas about what had happened. She wants British Gas to repair 
or replace her damaged bath and to compensate her for eight days of lost earnings because 
she had to take time off work for various British Gas appointments.
British Gas accepts the workmanship of the engineer who fitted Ms Ps new water tank was 
poor. Initially it offered her £100 in compensation. Subsequently, it said that, while it didnt 
accept liability for the damaged bath, it was offering Ms P another £400 as a gesture of 
goodwill to contribute to its replacement.
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms P brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it in part. He thought British Gas should compensate Ms P for 14.5 hours of lost 
earnings. He didnt think it would be fair to require British Gas to replace Ms Ps bath  but 
he thought its overall offer of £500 in compensation was fair and reasonable for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused Ms P. 
British Gas has accepted our investigators view. Ms P hasnt. Shes unhappy with some of 
our investigators findings and wants to be compensated for more of the earnings shes lost 
than he thinks is fair and reasonable. So Ms Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and like the investigator who looked at Ms Ps complaint, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
First, though, its important to say British Gas accepts its engineer didnt fit Ms Ps new water 
tank correctly and this caused the subsequent leak. British Gas accepts this wasnt an 
acceptable level of service. I agree. And Im in no doubt British Gas failings have meant    
Ms P has lost earnings and suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a 
consequence.
What I have to decide here, though, is what I think its fair and reasonable to direct British 
Gas to pay Ms P to compensate for its failings. And in looking at this issue, Im aware Ms P 
and British Gas have given differing accounts of some of the things that happened. Where 
there are differences like this, I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened  
on the balance of probabilities  based on the information I have from both Ms P and British 
Gas.
Lost earnings
Turning to Ms Ps lost earnings first. Ms Ps home emergency policy doesnt give her cover 
for loss of earnings  that is, its not something shes entitled to claim for under her contract 
of insurance. And I must also say any home emergency is going to involve a home owner in 
some inconvenience including, almost inevitably, taking time off work for an engineer to 
come in and put things right. 
My understanding is British Gas first came to Ms Ps home on 22 February 2020. Its job 
records show on this visit the engineer said hed drained the tank but a new one was 
needed.  On 2 March 2020, another engineer visited and British Gas job records show he 
fitted the new tank. These two visits were the inevitable consequence of Ms Ps initial home 
emergency. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to compensate 
Ms P for any time she took off work for them.
Shortly after the new tank was fitted, however, and as Ive already mentioned, Ms P saw it 
was leaking and was also concerned about exposed wiring. So she contacted British Gas 
again. 
On 5 March, from information British Gas and Ms P have given us, British Gas sent out an 
agent (whose report says he tightened a valve). The leak continued.
On 6 March, British Gas says it sent out another agent (whose report says he tightened up 
compression straight in the cylinder cupboard). The leak continued.
On 8 March, British Gas says it sent out a plumber (whose report says he couldnt find a 
leak), a British Gas engineer (whose report says, among other things, he fitted a new pump 
valve) and an electrician. From the events Ive described so far its clear to me  and our investigator reached the 
same view  that any time Ms P took off work between 5 and 8 March inclusive was a direct 
and foreseeable consequence of British Gass failure to install the water tank correctly. So I 
think its fair and reasonable British Gas should compensate Ms P for her loss of earnings in 
this period.
British Gas says the leak was fixed from 8 March. Ms P strongly disputes this and says it 
continued until July. 
On 11 March, Ms P says an electrician sent by British Gas came to her home, and thats 
when she and he found the leak. Apart from her recollections, Ms P hasnt given us any 
other information to show an electrician came to her home on 11 March. 
British Gass job records also dont show anyone coming to Ms Ps home on 11 March. But 
they do show an electrician came to Ms Ps home on 8 March. And British Gas has also 
given us its contact notes showing a call Ms P made to it on 8 March at 14:39 where she 
asks for the electricians details (all records refer to the name of the electrical firm), which the 
call handler notes she says the British Gas engineer needs to do his part of the job.
From all of this information, I think its likely the electrician did visit Ms Ps home  but on 8 
not 11 March. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Ms P any 
compensation for loss of earnings on 11 March.
Ms P also says in this period there were two occasions when British Gas did not arrive. 
She hasnt given us dates when she says this happened or said how much time she had to 
take off work because of them. And, unsurprisingly, she doesnt have any other information 
about these missed appointments  she says they were arranged over the phone. British 
Gas job records and contact notes dont show any missed appointments  they only show 
one appointment that was rescheduled from 26 February to 2 March (seemingly because  
Ms P was working on 26 February). With such limited information about these missed 
appointments, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award Ms P any compensation 
for loss of earnings in connection with them.
On 18 and 19 March, British Gas job records show its agents visited Ms Ps home again to 
investigate a leak. And British Gas and Ms P both say an engineer visited on 19 March.     
Ms P says the leak was coming from the tank and she used a plastic container to catch the 
water, emptying it when it filled. 
British Gass job records for 19 March show a hatch was cut under the floor to check for a 
leak, while those for the agent say: Cant see any problems with the plumbing in the cylinder 
cupboard photos taken. They also refer to blocked drainage somewhere in the property  
something I know Ms P strongly disputes.
Shortly after this, the UK went into lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic. So Ms P 
was unable to let British Gas come into her home for a number of months. And in the 
meantime she switched her central heating off.
On 13 and 16 July, a British Gas customer service manager then visited Ms Ps home to 
look for the leak. Ms P has said hed verify there was a leak because he carried out repairs  
she says he tightened some screws. Ive seen an email from the manager  I think it is from 
16 July  in which he says:
On Monday I couldnt see any water in the cylinder cupboard or from the 
surrounding pipework, pump or cylinder. Everything was dry.Id left some blue roll paper down and we had both agreed to leave the heating and 
hot water off until to day [sic] to make sure its [sic] not something dripping when the 
system is cold.
 
Ive returned today and all is bone dry. [Ms P] is happy that its [sic] come to an end 
but in honesty Ive not done anything. The stains on the chipboard flooring inside the 
cupboard are from a previous leak which she now knows and there isnt any further 
damage to anything out with the cupboard. 
The manager finishes the email by saying: There isnt any damage to the anything that I 
have seen other than the water stain to the chip board in the cylinder cupboard.
Looking at the period from 8 March to 16 July, the information I have that there was a 
continuing leak from Ms Ps new water tank isnt strong. Ms P is, I know, adamant, the leak 
continued. But apart from her recollections, she hasnt given us anything else to show us this 
was the case. Although shes sent us many photos, there are none showing a leak after 8 
March (although I realise this can be difficult to show in a photo, especially when Ms P says 
the leak was coming from a tricky spot). Nor has she given us any information from any 
other experts to show the leak from the water tank continued. 
Because the information I have of a continuing leak isnt strong, I cant say British Gas 
failings in this case continued beyond 8 March 2020. And that means I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to compensate Ms P for any loss of earnings 
beyond that date.
In relation to compensation for the period from 5 to 8 March 2020, Ms P says she works 
between 37.5 and 48 hours a week and has given us copies of a number of her payslips. 
These show her hourly rate in March 2020 was £12.6166. For the week ending 8 March 
2020, Ms Ps payslip show she worked 23 hours. 
Having looked at Ms Ps pay slips, in a usual week, she worked 37.5 hours. I think its fair 
and reasonable to assume this is what Ms P wouldve worked had she not had to take time 
off for these specific British Gas visits. That being the case, I think British Gas should 
compensate Ms P for 14.5 hours of lost earnings at an hourly rate of £12.6166. 
As Ms P wouldve paid tax and national insurance contributions on this amount, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to deduct 30% to reflect this. British Gas should 
also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount due to Ms P from 8 March 2020 to the 
date of settlement.
The bath
Turning now to the damage to Ms Ps bath. Ms P has explained the circumstances in which 
she put various items from her cupboards into the bath when she noticed the leak from the 
new tank. She says if the tank had been installed correctly first time round the damage 
wouldnt have happened. Thats true. But I think its fair and reasonable to direct British Gas 
to compensate Ms P only for losses that it shouldve seen were foreseeable as a direct 
consequence of its failings. And I dont think the damage to Ms Ps bath caused by her 
putting items such as an ironing board and a printer (among other things) in it were a 
foreseeable consequence of its failure to install the new water tank correctly. So I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to compensate Ms P for this.
Distress and inconvenienceBut I do think an award of £500 for the significant distress and inconvenience British Gass 
failings have caused Ms P is fair and reasonable. Ms P was entitled to expect her new water 
tank wouldnt leak. And she was clearly put to a lot of inconvenience when it did  both in 
terms of upheaval to her home and to her routines. I can see she had a lot of administrative 
hassle to deal with. And I know from Ms Ps case file how distressing she has found the 
experience as a whole.
Final points
I know Ms P is deeply unimpressed with how British Gas has handled her home emergency 
and her complaint about it. And I know she was hoping for more compensation for lost 
earnings and for her damaged bath than I am awarding. 
Im sure Ms P has given us her honest recollections of whats happened. And I want to 
assure her that Ive taken these and all of her detailed comments into account in reaching 
my decision. 
There are a couple of specific comments Ms P has made, though, that Id like to respond to.
Ms P has asked what has happened to the customer always being right? But that isnt the 
standard by which I must decide her complaint  instead, I must look at all the facts and 
circumstances (and not just at what Ms P says but also at what British Gas and its agents 
say) to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Ms P also says as the person living in her home, shes the one best placed to judge whether 
theres an ongoing leak. While I understand Ms Ps strength of feeling, for the reasons Ive 
given and taking into account all the information I have on this complaint, I dont think that 
would lead to an outcome thats fair and reasonable in this case.
  
Putting things right
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to put things right as I set out below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Ms P for 14.5 hours of lost earnings at an hourly rate of £12.6166. 
As Ms P wouldve paid tax and national insurance contributions on this amount, 
British Gas can deduct 30% to reflect this. 
British Gas should also pay Ms P 8% simple interest per annum on the amount due 
to her from 8 March 2020 to the date of settlement. If British Gas thinks its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell   
Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Pay Ms P £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. British Gas 
should pay this amount within 28 days of the date we tell it Ms P has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, British Gas should pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman