DRN-3644780
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr A had an accident insurance policy with Aviva. He had two accidents where he came off 
his bike in October 2019 and again in April 2021. He claimed on his policy with Aviva in 
November 2021, because hed damaged his left-side shoulder and the surrounding muscle 
area. Mr A said hes severely restricted in his range of movement following the accidents 
and that he also experiences high levels of pain. He believes Avivas assessment of his 
claim was unfair because it hadnt paid enough attention to the injuries he sustained. Mr A 
said the result of his injuries have restricted his normal function beyond half of his previous 
ability. He would like Aviva to reconsider his claim because he disagrees with how its 
quantified his restricted range of abilities. 
Aviva said for the policy to effectively pay out, Mr A wouldve needed to show the injuries he 
suffered restricted his range of movement beyond 20% of his regular function. It said after 
reviewing the medical evidence it was satisfied Mr A didnt fulfil that criteria and so didnt 
meet the policy terms. It maintained its declinature. 
Our investigator said Aviva had assessed Mr As claim fairly based on the medical evidence 
he submitted. She also said that based on that evidence, she thought Avivas chief medical 
officer had fairly quantified the injuries Mr A had suffered and that it was clear why he didnt 
satisfy the policy terms. She also explained it was Mr As responsibility to show hed met the 
policy terms and therefore there wasnt any need for Aviva to arrange an independent 
medical examination, or for it to assess Mr A directly.
Mr A disagreed with her findings. In summary, Mr A said that because the injuries he 
suffered were quantified at 15% loss of function, and that this is relatively close to the 20% 
mark defined in the policy terms, Aviva should reassess his claim and pay close attention to 
the medical issues hes complained about. He also said Aviva should arrange to medically 
examine him so it can see the problems he has to deal with. Mr A referred to a disability 
grant paid to him by another scheme and said it was proof his on-going shoulder and arm 
problems are severe enough to meet the policy terms. And so, its now for me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im not persuaded Aviva 
treated Mr A unfairly by declining his claim. Aviva considered the medical evidence provided 
by Mr A and determined his injuries restricted his previous movement ability by 15% which 
doesnt satisfy the policy terms and therefore no benefit is payable. Ill explain why. 
It's not in dispute that Mr A suffered long term injuries as a result of his accidents. And so, I 
wanted to make clear I accept Mr As testimony that hes experienced a reduced range of 
movement and that he suffers from on-going pain. I also accept he receives additional 
benefit because of this through another scheme. However, thats not the test thats applied in 
this case. Mr As policy with Aviva will only pay benefit should his injuries cause a 20% 
permanent reduction in movement. And so, his policy doesnt pay any benefit simply 
because there was an accident, rather, it must consider the injuries sustained and they must 
meet the threshold defined within the policy terms. 
To be clear, the policy terms say;
What is covered
2. Loss of use of arms and/or legs
If an insured person suffers an accident which directly results in some degree of permanent 
loss of use of arms and/or legs, we will pay a percentage of the benefit shown in the table of 
benefits depending on the extent of loss of use that a doctor confirms you have suffered.
 Where the loss of use is less than 20% we will not pay any benefit.
 Where the loss of use is 20% or more and under 70% we will pay a percentage of the full 
benefit shown in the table of benefits equal to the percentage of loss that a doctor confirms 
you have suffered as a direct result of the accident. Please see the example below.
 Where the loss of use is 70% or more, the benefit shown in the table of benefits will be paid 
in full.
I agree with Mr A that its difficult to quantify the impact of the injuries hes suffered, however, 
thats exactly what Aviva needed to do here. This is an accident policy and like all similar 
policies, insurers must consider a guide and apply a formula to quantify the level of impact of 
those injuries. And so, whilst I acknowledge Mr As comments about it not being an exact 
science, the medical professionals involved with this case are able to reach an agreement 
about the level of impact Mr A has suffered. Mr As injuries are a tear left subscapularis 
tendon and rupture of the long head of biceps.
Aviva has considered two medical reports provided by Mr A. Both agree theres an on-going 
problem with Mr As shoulder and that he suffers with restricted movement. The report in 
November 2021 is most beneficial to Mr As circumstances because it gives a detailed 
explanation about his range of movement and explains Mr As symptoms are more serious 
than those documented in the earlier report October 2021. Aviva said it based its 
assessment on the November 2021 report  which I thought was fair, not only because Mr 
As symptoms are described more seriously, but because it was the most recent. Im 
satisfied both reports are independent because they werent completed by Aviva. 
Aviva considered the specialists report and applied a recognised guide to assess Mr As 
range of movement. Im referring to the American Medical Association reference book guide 
to the evaluation of permanent impairment. In doing this, Aviva was able to quantify the level 
of impact his restricted movement had. It was able to determine that Mr As restriction of 
movement was 15% which didnt satisfy the policy criteria. I dont think Aviva did anything 
wrong here as this is what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. Its the fairest way to 
decide whether Mr A met the policy terms. I also dont see any reason for Aviva to arrange 
an independent medical examination. I say that because the medical reports provided by Mr 
A were independently completed. Thats to say they were arranged by Mr A. I should also 
say that both reports are fairly consistent with one another and so theres no anomaly that 
would persuade me that another report needs be completed. 
I should say that although Im not a medical expert and its not my role to assess the extent 
of Mr As injuries, Im able to consider how Aviva handled his claim. And Im satisfied its 
followed the medical guidance and applied this fairly to Mr As claim before it reached a decision on its liability. Aviva doesnt need to take any action here because its not treated 
Mr A unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman