DRN-3494994
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy 
unreasonably mid-term after he told it hed received a motoring conviction. 
What happened
Mr Ks policy started in January 2020. In August 2020 he was told that someone driving his 
car had committed a speeding offence. He had to supply the drivers details within 28 days. 
He says he couldnt, due to problems in the pandemic. At a court hearing in April 2021 Mr K 
got an MS90 conviction, a fine and six penalty points for not complying with the requirement. 
In the meantime, Mr K had renewed the policy in January 2021. Admiral said he should have 
reported the August 2020 incident to it immediately (not after he got the conviction in April 
2021). It said it didnt offer cover to anyone with an MS90 conviction, and it cancelled the 
policy without notice. Mr K said the policys terms and conditions meant he only had to report 
convictions at renewal, which gave him until January 2022. He said if hed waited, then even 
if Admiral hadnt renewed the policy and it had lapsed, he wouldnt have been faced with the 
high premiums he was charged for cover after the cancellation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He thought the policy wording (plus the  
wording in the renewal documents Mr K got in December 2020) should have led him to 
report the incident to Admiral. He noted that Mr K had made a successful claim on the policy 
in March 2021, which wouldnt have been Admirals responsibility had the policy not been 
renewed. Mr K said hed applied for cover with Admiral anonymously (declaring the MS90) 
and was told hed have to call Admiral to discuss it. So he didnt accept that there was an 
automatic ban on drivers with an MS90. The investigator said that could be because it didnt 
apply in limited circumstances. He thought Mr K should have been given notice of the 
cancellation, so £100 compensation for the inconvenience of that would be reasonable.
A second investigator responded to Mr Ks comments on the first investigators view after 
asking Mr K and Admiral for further information. Mr K didnt provide any - and Admiral didnt 
respond fully. Based on the available information, the second investigator agreed with the 
previous investigators view. He said as Mr K knew about the incident in August 2020, he 
should have reported it to Admiral at the next renewal, in December 2020. He said the issue 
was pertinent to Admirals consideration of the risk it was taking on. He didnt disagree with 
the proposed compensation for inconvenience. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, as follows:
The law that applies to Mr Ks situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Briefly, under CIDRA, if a consumer makes a 
misrepresentation to an insurer (which includes not correcting something thats no longer 
accurate) the insurer may be able to avoid the policy altogether. Whether it can do that 
depends first of all on whether the consumer was asked a clear question and took 
reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation. If the consumer didnt do so, the 
insurer must show that it would have acted differently had it known the true facts. If it can 
show that it wouldnt have offered the consumer cover at all, it can reclaim the cost of any  
claim it may have paid after the start of the policy that its now avoiding.
An insurer can choose to cancel the policy instead, for a reason set out in the policys terms 
and conditions. If it does so, the policy remains live up to the point of cancellation, so any 
claim made up to that point is covered in the usual way. Thats what Admiral did here. 
The policy says Admiral can cancel with immediate effect if theres a breach of certain 
general requirements. A consumer must report a disqualification or a change in their driving 
licence status to Admiral immediately. Admiral referred to this in its final response letter, but 
neither of these situations applied to Mr K, so I dont think there was any need for him to 
report anything to Admiral in August 2020. 
Mr K says he only got a court summons with a date for the hearing in March 2021. That may 
be so, but he was notified of the speeding offence (committed by a then unknown driver) in 
August 2020. He hasnt provided the relevant documents to us as requested, but he would 
have received a notice of intended prosecution (a section 172 notice) advising him that if he 
didnt provide the required information within 28 days, he may be prosecuted. So I think that 
when Mr K got the renewal documents in December 2020, a prosecution was pending. 
The policy says that consumers must declare at renewal any conviction, endorsement or 
pending prosecution. I dont think it makes any difference that Mr K was hoping he wouldnt 
be convicted. In my opinion, Admirals wording was clear, and I think he should have 
reported the matter to it at that renewal. By doing nothing, he confirmed that his 
circumstances were as they were when he bought the 2020 policy, which wasnt correct. 
Admiral confirmed recently that had Mr K contacted it then, it wouldnt have been able to 
offer him further cover - but it would have allowed the policy to lapse. Hed then have had 
time to look around for insurance, with no cancellation on his record.  
Admiral told Mr K that it would have to cancel his cover as soon as he told an advisor about 
the MS90 conviction. I think that was fair and reasonable, given that Admirals underwriting 
criteria prevent it from covering anyone with an MS90 conviction. I cant say why, in different 
circumstances, Admiral may be willing to talk to consumers who have MS90 convictions. 
Numerous factors may come into play. But in this case, I think the evidence shows that 
Admiral applied the underwriting criteria correctly. 
Admiral has offered Mr K £100 compensation for not giving him seven days notice of 
cancellation. I dont think it was required to do that. Mr K breached the policys general 
condition 15. The policy says a breach of that condition means the policy can be cancelled 
without notice.
Mr K thinks the cancellation is what led to the rise in the premium hes had to pay for cover . 
I think it may be partly due to that, but Admiral had the right to cancel the policy. And even if 
it had been allowed to lapse, Mr K would still have been under a duty to inform other insurers 
of the offence, the pending prosecution, or the conviction. I think thats likely to have affected 
the number of insurers prepared to offer him cover and the cost of his premiums. 
Undoubtedly, Mr K has found himself in a difficult situation, although he genuinely believes 
his approach to keeping Admiral informed was appropriate. But based on what Ive seen so 
far, I think Admiral acted reasonably, so Im minded not to uphold his complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral didnt do so. Mr K 
provided a copy of the letter hed sent to the court in March 2021 asking for proceedings against him to be redirected to the driver who was speeding in his car. In the letter, he said 
the driver had provided a letter accepting blame, which Mr K had sent to the court in January 
2021, before the summons against him was issued. Mr K told the court in the letter that he 
hadnt receive the initial notification of the offence in August 2020. In his email to us, Mr K 
added that when he got the notice of intended prosecution in 2020, he didnt think hed be 
prosecuted, as he wasnt driving the car at the time of the incident. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr K was confused about the offence for which he was prosecuted. It wasnt for 
speeding, but for not supplying the drivers details within 28 days. It seems the court was 
well aware Mr K wasnt driving at the time of the offence. That made no difference to the 
judge in holding Mr K responsible for failing to provide the other drivers details in time. 
From Admirals point of view, the issue is that Mr K knew he had a notice of pending 
prosecution when he got the renewal documents in December 2020. So, in line with the 
wording in those documents, he should have told it about that then, even if he believed he 
wouldnt be convicted. Admiral renewed the policy in January 2021 when it wouldnt have 
done so had it known all the facts. As it was misled into providing cover, I think it was 
reasonable for it to cancel the policy without notice when it was told about the conviction. 
In my opinion, Mr K thought he had good reason to believe hed avoid a conviction. I think he 
also believed he didnt need to tell Admiral about the intended / pending prosecution until the 
next renewal - or at least until he was proved wrong in court. I think Mr Ks mistaken beliefs 
have led to the unfortunate situation he now faces. I sympathise, but as I dont think Admiral 
has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman