DRN-3764993
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges when he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (NVS).
What happened
In April 2019, Mr S acquired a new car using a hire agreement with NVS. When Mr Ss 
agreement came to an end, he handed the car back. When the car was collected, it was 
inspected for damage by a third-party company. NVS say the inspector who carried out the 
inspection would have been trained to the British Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) fair wear and tear guideline standards.
NVS then told Mr S he owed £430 for damage to the car. This consisted of:
Scuff to front alloy wheel L £65
Scratches to front bumper £75
Scratch to front door L £75
Scratch to rear door L £140
Scratch to quarter panel R £75
TOTAL £430
NVS also notified Mr S that he owed an additional £62.89 for an informal rental charge. NVS 
say Mr S has since paid this.
Mr S was unhappy about the damage charges and complained to NVS. He says, among 
other things, that he didnt agree to or sign the inspection report once it was completed. 
NVS issued their final response to the complaint in May 2022. They said, in summary, that 
they thought the damage charges had been fairly applied. They also said that the collection 
agents ran a contactless process and that Mr Ss comments that he didnt agree with the 
findings of the report was recorded.
Mr S remained unhappy and felt the charges were unfair. So he referred his complaint to our 
service. He says he could not see any damage to the vehicle. Mr S also says he wasnt 
given the opportunity of having any repairs made to the alleged faults.
Our investigator found that NVS didnt need to do anything further. In summary, he explained 
to Mr S that the damage charges NVS say he owes fall outside of the BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidelines. He also explained why he thought Mr S had enough time prior to the 
inspection to repair any damage to the vehicle. The investigator also explained our service 
wouldnt look to advise a reduction in the damage charges because fewer miles were 
covered in a car than what was contracted.
Mr S remained unhappy. He says the signature on the inspection report isnt his and 
believes this action is a fraudulent act. As Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
I want to reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered everything hes said in relation to this 
complaint and all the points hes raised. Where I havent specifically commented on 
something below, this is because Im focussing on what I consider to be the key points and 
the crux of the complaint.
Mr S complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ss complaint 
about NVS.
Mr S has complained about various damage charges on the returned vehicle. Ill consider 
these in turn. But Ive firstly thought about whether Mr S agreed to be held responsible for 
damage to the car. The terms of the agreement Mr S entered into says:
You agree to keep the Vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us 
for any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than though fair wear 
and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So Im satisfied Mr S agreed to keep the car in good repair and to be held responsible for 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering the damages here, Ive referred to the BVRLA guidance on fair wear and 
tear. The BVRLA is a trade body that oversees the vehicle rental and leasing sector. Ive 
noted Mr Ss comments where he says the BVRLAs guidance on fair wear and tear is not 
enshrined in law. But it is industry guidance and Im satisfied it should form part of my 
considerations to resolve this complaint in a fair and reasonable way.
For damage to wheels and wheel trims, The BVRLA says, Dents on wheel rims and wheel 
trims are not acceptable. But, Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel 
rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
Ive reviewed the photos from the inspection of the car. In relation to the front alloy wheel 
left, I can see a collection of scratches along the edge of the alloy wheel, that total over 
50mm in length. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it 
follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr S for this damage.
For damage to paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim, the BVRLA says, Surface 
scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable A 
maximum of four scratches on one panel is acceptable..
In relation to the front bumper, I can see around three, long, horizontal marks along the 
lower portion of the bumper in the photos provided. Im satisfied there are several scratches 
to the bumper that are all greater than 25mm in length. Im satisfied this area falls outside of 
the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr S for this 
damage.
In relation to the left front door, from the photos I can see a scratch over 25mm in length. I 
can also see that the primer or bare metal is showing under the scratch. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to 
charge Mr S for this damage.
In relation to the left rear, I can see from the photos more than four scratches. Several 
scratches are greater than 25mm in length. Some of those scratches also show the primer or 
bare metal underneath. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So 
it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr S for this damage.
In relation to the quarter panel right, the photo shows two scratches. On one of these I can 
see that the primer or bare metal is showing. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear 
and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr S for this damage.
Mr S has said that following the inspection, he wasnt given an opportunity to repair the 
alleged faults before being charged, or have the opportunity to seek a second opinion. NVS 
say that Mr S was provided with the BVRLA guidelines prior to the inspection  in March 
2022. Within the guidelines it says,  to carry out an appraisal of the vehicle before the 
vehicle is due for return. This will allow you to arrange to have any damage rectified and 
missing items replaced.. I have no reason to think Mr S didnt receive BVRLA guidelines 
from NVS prior to the inspection and on the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely 
than not he did receive them. So Im satisfied that Mr S had enough time to inspect the 
vehicle himself, against the BVRLA guidelines and correct any damage.
Mr S says he didnt sign the inspection report. NVS has provided us with a copy of a vehicle 
return guide document Mr S should have received prior to the inspection. Within it, it says 
that due to safety measures a signature will not be required and that the inspector will sign 
upon completion.
But, whatever happened here this wouldnt change my opinion. I say this as Im satisfied the 
damage was present and its fair and reasonable for NVS to charge for it. Whether Mr S 
signed the inspection or not wouldnt change this.
Mr S says the car was returned with a low mileage, well below the 15,000 miles he was 
permitted under his agreement. NVS say the lower mileage has no bearing on the damage 
noted on the vehicle, and that there are no provisions in Mr Ss agreement that suggests a 
reduction may be made in respect of the damage recharges. I have also looked through the 
terms and cant see a provision along those lines. And the lower mileage doesnt change the 
fact that the damage was present.
Mr S was charged an additional £62.89 for an informal rental charge. NVS has confirmed 
this charge has been paid. NVS say that once the minimum hire period has ended, the hiring 
of the vehicle will continue for a secondary period unless terminated, where Mr S is 
committed to pay rentals for the continued use of the vehicle. I have reviewed the terms Mr 
S had agreed to, and there is a provision within the agreement along those lines. Mr S 
retained the vehicle for a short period of time after the minimum hire period had ended. And 
so, I dont think NVS has acted unfairly by charging Mr S for additional use of the vehicle 
past its initial hire period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman