DRN-4048973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about their application to Nationwide Building Society for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F applied through a broker for a re-mortgage to Nationwide on their residential 
property. Both Mr and Mrs F were in employment (Mrs F was on maternity leave) at the time 
of their application, and they also owned several rental properties. They wanted to borrow 
around £330,000.
Their broker made the application, and a valuation was carried out. The valuer said the 
property was worth £420,000  more than the £400,000 Mr and Mrs F had estimated. This 
changed the loan to value band, and so the particular interest rate Mr and Mrs F had applied 
for wasnt available to them. In between the application and the valuation Nationwides 
interest rates had increased. So although Mr and Mrs F had a better loan to value than 
expected, the rates in the lower loan to value band were still slightly worse than the rate in 
the higher band had been at the time of their application.
Nationwide agreed to override this, ensuring Mr and Mrs F wouldnt end up with a worse rate 
than theyd applied for. The application proceeded. Nationwide asked for further information 
about Mr and Mrs Fs income, and about their rental properties. There were some delays 
here, because Nationwide asked for some documents more than once  it hadnt connected 
earlier submissions with their application.
After consideration, Nationwide said the maximum it could lend was around £115,000  
much less than Mr and Mrs F wanted. Mr and Mrs F complained, both about the delays and 
about the decision Nationwide had made. In the meantime theyd applied for and been 
accepted by another lender, but they said theyd lost out because of the problems with 
Nationwide  in having to spend longer on the standard variable rate on their previous 
mortgage, and because the rate theyd secured on their new mortgage was higher than it 
would have been had they applied sooner without wasting time on a Nationwide application 
first.
Nationwide said it had made a fair lending decision. It agreed there had been some delay in 
considering it because of the problem with requesting documents, and offered compensation 
of £175. Our investigator thought that was a fair offer, but Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to say is that no mortgage lender, faced with an application from a new 
potential customer, is obliged to lend  either the requested amount, or at all. And just 
because one lender offers a mortgage, that doesnt mean another lender acted unfairly, or 
got it wrong, when it didnt. Within the broad framework set by the regulators mortgage 
rules, theres a wide discretion for lenders to decide when they do and dont want to lend, 
and different lenders with different risk appetites can legitimately make different decisions.
That said, Id expect Nationwide to have considered Mr and Mrs Fs application fairly, in line 
with the relevant rules and Nationwides own lending criteria. And while I know Mr and Mrs F 
dont agree, Im satisfied that it did. 
Mr and Mrs Fs finances were more complicated than those of many other applicants. As 
well as both being in employment, they also owned two buy to let properties in their own 
names as individuals, and a third through a limited company they jointly owned.
As part of the application, they declared their income from employment and from the rental 
properties. As one of the properties was owned through a limited company and not direct, 
Nationwide wanted to see an accountants certificate for that company, as well as tax 
information showing the income declared. Those were reasonable requests.
Nationwide also reviewed Mr and Mrs Fs bank statements. It asked for three months 
statements, and initially was only given two months, with the third added later.
Having looked at the bank statements, Nationwide noted that there was no rental income for 
one of the properties for one month, and the average income from another was lower than 
had been declared on the application.
As a result Nationwide reduced the amount of the mortgage it was willing to offer. It said that 
because the rent wasnt consistently being received, it couldnt take it into account. That 
meant that in its calculations Mr and Mrs F had a large buy to let mortgage which wasnt 
being offset by rental income  and that reduced the amount Nationwide was willing to lend. 
This was a reasonable decision based on the information available to Nationwide at the time. 
Mr and Mrs F have explained that in fact the rent was always paid in full  the discrepancy 
was because theyd agreed a change of due date with their tenants. Nationwide has an 
appeal process, allowing brokers to submit further information for its underwriters to 
reconsider a mortgage application. And it may be the case that if Mr and Mrs F and their 
broker had proceeded with an appeal, and provided the explanation about the rent with 
further evidence showing that, Nationwide would have reconsidered and increased the 
amount it was willing to lend. 
However, Mr and Mrs F applied to another lender instead. That application was accepted, 
and they went ahead with re-mortgaging to that other lender. They didnt pursue an appeal 
with Nationwide, though they did complain.
As I say, it may be that Nationwide would have increased the amount it was willing to lend 
Mr and Mrs F on appeal  but it may not have done. Because it never had the chance to 
review their application, I dont know what the outcome would have been. As Ive explained, 
just because the other lender was willing to lend what Mr and Mrs F wanted, that doesnt 
mean Nationwide would or ought to have done.
Im satisfied Nationwide made a reasonable lending decision, in line with its lending criteria, 
based on the information it had at the time. Mr and Mrs F chose not to proceed with an 
appeal. I cant therefore find that Nationwide ought to have lent the full amount they wanted, 
or that its likely it would have done so. And so I cant require it to compensate them for not 
getting the Nationwide mortgage they wanted, or because the mortgage they did get was at 
a less favourable interest rate than the one they applied for with Nationwide.However, I do agree that there were failings in the process  in particular around the 
provision of supporting evidence for Mr and Mrs Fs application. Their broker had to provide 
some things more than once, and there was some avoidable delay. Applying for a mortgage 
is always a stressful process even when things dont go wrong, and Mr and Mrs F were 
clearly frustrated with the problems in this application. I think Nationwide has made a fair 
offer of compensation for that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. It should pay Mr and Mrs F £175, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman