DRN-1210910
The complaint
Ms V complained that Nationwide Building Society cancelled a direct debit shed set up with 
another business without notifying her or asking her for permission to do so. She also 
complained about the way Nationwide handled her concerns about that.  
What happened
Ms V set up a direct debit on her Nationwide account to make payments to a business Ill call 
company B. In May 2019 company B tried to take a payment from Ms Vs Nationwide 
account but it couldnt do so. Ms V went into her local branch of Nationwide to ask what was 
happening. When she wasnt happy with the responses she received, she complained.
Nationwide said company B hadnt been paid because the direct debit had been cancelled. It 
said that was because the direct debit hadnt been used for more than 13 months and, in 
such circumstances, it can be deleted from the account. Nationwide also addressed Ms Vs 
complaint about the way the staff in her local branch had responded to her concerns and it 
apologised for any distress or inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the terms and conditions of Ms Vs 
account with Nationwide said it could delete a direct debit from an account if it hadnt been 
used for a long time (usually 13 months or more) and the account holder, or business theyre 
paying, hadnt said it shouldnt be deleted. So, she didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. She also considered the service Nationwide had provided. She 
acknowledged that the branch hadnt explained why the direct debit had been cancelled. But 
it had logged a complaint and later provided an adequate explanation of what had 
happened.
Ms V didnt agree. She thought Nationwide had a duty of care to advise its customers when 
a direct debit is going to be cancelled. As Ms V remains unhappy, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to Ms V 
but, having done so, I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
The terms and conditions on Ms Vs Nationwide account read as follows:  
If youve set up any direct debits on your account to pay another person or UK organisation 
and that person or UK organisations bank doesn't take any money from your account for a 
long time (usually 13 months or more), we can delete the record from your account unless 
the person or the UK organisation you are paying tells us that it shouldnt be deleted.'
As our investigator said, this 13-month dormancy rule is standard across the financial 
industry. If no payment is made for a period of 13 months or more from the date of the last 
payment, the bank can remove details of the instruction from its system. The intention is to 
protect consumers from having direct debits sitting unused on their account indefinitely.In this case, company B took the last direct debit payment from Ms Vs account in 
March 2018, more than 13 months before it tried to take another payment in May 2019. I 
havent seen any evidence that either Ms V or company B told Nationwide it shouldnt be 
deleted in between times. Nationwide has therefore done what it said it would do and I dont 
think it has therefore acted unfairly in deleting the direct debit Ms V had set up with 
company B. 
Ms V was also upset with the way her local branch responded to her concerns. She said the 
branch staff didnt know why the direct debit had been cancelled and she said the manager 
made her feel as though she shouldnt be worried. Nationwide said it wasnt the branch 
managers intention to make her feel that way and apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think thats a reasonable 
response. I can see that Nationwide took Ms Vs complaint seriously and responded fully to 
her concerns. It explained why it had deleted the direct debit with company B and responded 
to her complaint about the way the branch had dealt with her. I think Nationwide handled the 
matter fairly and reasonably and, in light of the above, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman