DRN-2120337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
unreasonably refused to pay all their claim under their pet policy for their dog because their 
policy had a condition limit for claims per year. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M originally bought a basic time limited policy with Red Sands from December 
2010. In 2016 they changed this to a superior life policy which had a condition limit of £2,000 
per condition. Plus given their dogs age there was a co-payment of 20% of the costs of the 
claim plus the excess. 
Mr and Mrs made two claims concerning issues with colitis and a rectal prolapse which Red 
Sands paid. Then in June 2019 Mr and Mrs M made a claim for a rectal adenoma in the sum 
of £1,870.12. Red Sands paid £856.01 of this and said as all three claims were linked, the 
condition limit has been reached so it couldnt pay the remainder. 
Mr and Mrs M complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So, they brought their 
complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong. Mr and 
Mrs M disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
As the investigator detailed the policy explained the condition limit and defines conditions as:
.. any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any 
manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from 
the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your 
pets body affected.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M dog suffered colitis in April 2018. And then again in May 2018 
but this time also suffered a rectal prolapse. In January 2019 the dog suffered further colitis 
but this time the vet saw the rectal wall was thickening and eventually the dog was 
diagnosed with a colorectal polyp, which was operated on and then removed. 
Red Sands said these incidences were all connected and so treated all the claims as claims 
for the same condition which meant the condition limit was reached hence the partial 
payment of their last claim, the subject matter of this complaint. Mr and Mrs Ms vet 
disagreed but Red Sands expert vet was of the view Red Sands initial view was correct.
There have been several misunderstandings about the policy conditions and the policy limits 
here, so first I think these should be clarified. Red Sands policy in line with many other life 
time policies, limits the amount they will pay in each policy year. Here in Mr and Mrs Ms 
policy, this is limited to £2,000 per condition. So, if the dog developed for example three 
separate conditions in the same policy year Mr and Mrs M would have the benefit of being 
able to claim up to £2,000 per each condition. Other life time policy providers can limit the 
amount that be claimed in total for the year, regards of whether its one condition or several. 
All life time policies have some sort of cap or limit on the amount that can be claimed in each 
policy year. Thats not unusual and no policy would have an unlimited amount that could be 
claimed in the policy year either, that wouldnt make sense either.
So, this means such a cap as in Red Sands policy is not an exclusion in the policy, as Mr 
and Mrs M and indeed their vet thinks. Instead, its simply a policy term. Because its a policy 
term and not an exclusion, the burden of proof is on Mr and Mrs M and their vet to prove 
the dog suffered two separate conditions, not necessarily instead for Red Sands to prove it 
they are connected. In order to claim under any policy condition in any policy, the 
policyholder must always show the claim meets the relevant condition and is therefore valid. 
The condition here is the condition limit, its not exclusion but a vital tenet of the cover 
provided by this policy. So, the burden of proof here rests with Mr and Mrs M, not Red 
Sands. 
Initially Red Sands said the claims were connected, when Mr and Mrs Ms vet disagreed it 
obtained the services of its vet expert who explained why they were more likely connected. 
At first glance without any medical knowledge, the fact that this poor dog had ongoing colitis 
issues including a rectal prolapse and then went on to develop a colorectal polyp does quite 
rationally seem connected rather than a coincidence. Mr and Mrs Ms vet doesnt detail how 
and why colorectal polyps develop. He merely states that despite the rectum being 
examined several times, no thickening of the rectal wall was noted  therefore its 
unconnected. As he said the following:
Clinical notes clearly state that at the time of [name of dog] visits for colitis (April and 
May 2018) there was no evidence of thickening of the rectal wall. Prissy has since 
developed a palpable thickening, first noted on the 14th January 2019, which was 
eventually identified as a colorectal polyp and removed. There is no evidence that 
these two conditions are linked, and the notes clearly state that the rectum was 
checked more than once in April and May 2018 and found to be free of any growth or 
thickening. Therefore, I believe that visits prior to 14th January 2019 for colitis should 
be viewed as a separate condition to the subsequent visits for colorectal polyp, and 
treated as unrelated insurance claims.
On the other hand, Red Sands consultant vet explains however that these polyps are slow 
growing and often cant be felt initially so he wasnt surprised Mr and Mrs Ms vet didnt feel it 
happening initially. He also explains that just because it wasnt felt doesnt mean it wasnt 
developing at the time either. He also points the extent of the mass when the dog was 
operated on as being extensive already. So as there doesnt seem to be any dispute that 
these polyps are slow growing the fact that it was extensive when operated on does indicate 
to me it was slowly growing in the background as the dog suffered colitis and a rectal 
prolapse. Red Sands vet goes as far as saying that it was the likely cause of her colitis since 
April 2018. He says the following:
[Name of dog] was ultimately diagnosed with a colorectal polyp. These are slow 
growing masses and can be difficult to palpate when small in a conscious dog, due to 
their depth, discomfort of the patient, presence of faeces during palpation and 
because the colon wall (and mass) distends outwards with your finger during examination. Wearing gloves for rectal examination makes changes in texture 
challenging to identify in the early, mild stage. The absence of a palpable mass at the 
start of this problem developing is therefore not unusual and is not evidence that this 
mass was not already present. Even at the point the mass had become extensive, it 
was poorly palpable as anything other than an area of rough texture. Despite active 
palpation to find a mass, no mass was appreciated on rectal examination.
[Name of dog] required an anaesthetic and sutures to evert the affected tissue to 
demonstrate the mass, which was in fact extensive already, about 4cm wide across 
the ventral wall of the rectum. [Name of dog] mass was described as friable when 
biopsied, the tissue broke apart on handling as is typical for these masses and was 
likely the cause of inflammation and intermittent bleeding throughout her 
history of colitis from 21 April 2018. [My emphasis].
It is possible other factors like stress would have contributed to inflammatory change 
and the likelihood of a flareup at the time of her move in April 2018, but the severity 
of her symptoms at the time (which included prolapse from excessive straining and 
possibly altered motility) suggests the masses were already present. [My 
emphasis]. Her symptoms came and went over the year but did not disappear as 
would be expected with the stress of a house move. The size of the mass once 
diagnosed suggests chronic growth and explains the persistent symptoms in 
retrospect. [My emphasis]. The mass is likely the cause of colitis from April 2018, of 
which prolapse is a complication. These conditions are all related.
Following this Mr and Mrs Ms vet replied as follows:
I have read, with interest, what they have written in your assessment. I maintain that 
the burden of proof should lie with the insurance company, as they are attesting that 
this condition was present while [name of dog] had signs of colitis, without convincing 
evidence to support this. It seems that this is based on their assertion that its a 
difficult part of the body to palpate adequately, but while that may be the case in 
some patients (not necessarily [name of dog]), its also a part of the body
with smooth, soft homogenous structures, making palpation of thickenings and 
swelling easier in many ways.
There are plenty of studies of canine patients with large intestinal disease (including 
colitis, adenomas, and other conditions) none of which showing the presence of non-
palpable adenomas in patients with colitis, or that having colitis leads to subsequent 
adenoma development (as far as I am aware). Not all dogs with colitis have rectal 
adenomas, and in this case it seems that they are avoiding honouring the claim as 
we dont have a histological biopsy to show that [name of dog] did not have evidence 
of adenoma while showing signs of colitis, which I dont feel is striking the correct 
balance.
Whilst this may well be the case, most crucially in my view Mr and Mrs Ms vet is just silent 
on why he thinks this particular adenoma developed in this dog and more importantly 
whether this dogs ongoing symptoms were a part of that. More so since there appears to be 
no dispute that these masses were slow growing.
On this basis I am more persuaded by the evidence from Red Sands consultant as he 
details the link between the symptoms suffered by the dog which in turn details the link 
between the conditions. Mr and Mrs Ms vet doesnt give any explanation of how or why the 
adenoma developed at all.  Therefore, I consider on balance the conditions and symptoms 
the dog suffered were more likely connected and therefore I dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong in considering from the start they were connected which mean the condition 
limit has correctly being reached so it couldnt pay all of Mr and Mrs Ms last claim.
 
Mr and Mrs M also complained that they felt Red Sands misinformed them when it was 
reinstating this policy given a previous issue of an incorrect exclusion on their policy. They 
said the Red Sands adviser said this claim would be paid in full less the 20% co-payment 
and excess and didnt explain it would be dealt with as a continuous condition.
Ive listened to the call recordings which Red Sands produced for the calls on 24 April 
2019.The adviser details that this claim was originally declined because of an exclusion for 
growths and tumours which then caused Mr and Mrs M to cancel this policy. But this 
exclusion should have been for cysts and warts instead. So, the adviser explained that if the 
policy was now reinstated this claim initially detailed as a pre-authorisation request would be 
considered in line with the policy conditions. Theres evidence to show that the adviser said it 
would be paid. Pet insurers generally and Red Sands is no different dont tend to give claims 
decisions on the basis of the contents of a phone call, rather they make such decision on the 
basis of the vet history at least. So, I dont consider Red Sands misled Mr and Mrs M here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman