DRN-3396714
The complaint
Mr P has complained through a representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) 
mis-sold him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
On 4 April 2016 AvantCredit provided Mr P with a loan of £1,000. The loan was repayable 
over 24 months with a monthly repayment of £59.67. Mr P repaid his loan on 12 December 
2017.
Mr P, through his representative complaint to AvantCredit on 1 September 2021. It issued a 
final response letter on 1 October 2021. It explained that it only offered loans that met its 
lending criteria. It concluded it had carried out an affordability assessment which showed 
AvantCredit that Mr P was in a position to afford the loan, it also thought the loan was 
sustainable for him. So, AvantCredit didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ps representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and he upheld the complaint in 
full. He concluded, that while the income and expenditure information AvantCredit obtained 
showed it that the loan was affordable, it didnt react to the credit check results, which in the 
adjudicators view showed Mr P was committing to spending a significant portion of his 
income towards his monthly credit commitments. The adjudicator also provided some details 
of some recent adverse information that was being applied to his credit file, which indicated 
financial difficulties. 
AvantCredit didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response, it said (in 
summary):
At the time Mr P had nine active credit accounts which based on the information 
AvantCredit had, he was committed to spending around £500.81 per month repaying. 
After the AvantCredit loan repayment was included, Mr P was committed to spending 
22% of his income towards monthly credit commitments. 
This wouldve left Mr P with more than sufficient disposable income to be able to 
afford his loan repayments. 
Mr P repaid the loan back early and showed no signs of affordability issues. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
For this loan, AvantCredit asked Mr P for his monthly income, which he declared as being 
£2,151. AvantCredit says it didnt ask for any independent verification of this figure, such as 
a wage slip. But it did use the credit reference agencies to confirm the accuracy of the figure. 
Based on the results, AvantCredit was satisfied to use this sum when thinking about the 
affordability of the loan. AvantCredit also asked Mr P for details of his expenditure, which included details of his 
mortgage, council tax and utilities to name a few. This figure was declared to be £1,800 per 
month. 
Mr Ps monthly disposable income (after the loan repayment to AvantCredit) was £291.33 
which was, in my view sufficient to show AvantCredit that this loan would likely to be 
affordable for Mr P. 
So, thinking about the loan term and the information mentioned above, it could be argued 
that a proportionate check was carried out. However, AvantCredit also carried out a credit 
search and its provided the full results to the Financial Ombudsman. The adjudicator 
thought, based on these results, the complaint should be upheld. Having looked at the same 
information, Im agreeing with the adjudicator and Ive explained why below. 
AvantCredit has been able to provide the Financial Ombudsman the results of its credit 
check. In summary the credit checks showed;
1. Recent indicators to show that Mr P was using more than his available other credit  
which would suggest he was above his credit limits on one or more accounts. 
2. Within the last month one or more account had got into arrears  this appears to 
have been a credit card where payment wasnt made in February 2016. 
3. Mr P had other outstanding debt (without the mortgage) of just over £7,330.
4. AvantCredit was aware that at least one credit account was at least four months in 
arrears. 
5. At least one account had become delinquent within the last 12 months. 
Even the table that AvantCredit supplied us after the adjudicators assessment showed that 
Mr P was above his credit limit on two credit cards -  and looking at Mr Ps credit file the 
estimated amounts that AvantCredit was proposing that may be used are a little low, given 
what we can see Mr P had been repaying in the months before. 
But looking at the credit file and the information that AvantCredit provided, it looks like Mr P 
was committing (including the loan repayments to AvantCredit) of at least £725 per month . 
So at the time the loan was advanced, AvantCredit ought to have realised Mr P was 
committing to spend around 1/3 of his income solely on credit commitments before his other 
costs were taken into account  which wouldnt appear on a credit file for example council 
tax payments. 
I think, in this case, this proportion of income was too high for Mr P to be able to sustainable 
the loan repayments, given that there were indicators in the credit file that Mr P was already 
having problems maintaining and repaying the credit he already had. As Ive mentioned 
above, he was over his credit limit on two credit cards and he had accounts in arrears owing 
to missed payments and or making reduced payments. Given these circumstances, I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable that AvantCredit advanced the loan. 
Given the above, this in my view, directly led to the repayment problems that Mr P appeared 
to have in repaying the loan. I accept the loan was repaid earlier than AvantCredit 
anticipated, but looking at the statement of account which it has provided there were a 
number of missed or return payments and these started almost immediately after the loan 
was approved and continued throughout the time that Mr P was repaying it. In my view, this 
further supports that the loan wasnt sustainable for Mr P, for the reasons given above. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Mr P with 
this loan. Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in 
respect of Loan 1, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement. 
Mr P is also subject to an Individual Involuntary Arrangement (IVA) and his Insolvency 
Practitioner has told us they have an interest in any refund due to him. I therefore, remind all 
parties to ensure that the refund is processed in line with the terms as set out in the IVA.  
AvantCredit should (subject to the terms of the IVA):
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 1;
treat any payments made by Mr P as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mr P has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to the 
date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loan 1 from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
AvantCredit of UK, LLC should put things right for Mr P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman