DRN-4344631
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B says he closed his TSB accounts in 2021 and was unaware there was interest still to 
be applied to them. He says he moved address and applied for a mortgage as well as car 
finance both which were refused. Mr B says he realised TSB had registered a default on his 
credit file. He would like the defaults removed and appropriate compensation.
TSB accepts it made a mistake and shouldnt have registered a default. It has apologised 
and paid £750 compensation. TSB says it will consider additional compensation for Mr Bs 
costs which he says he paid, such as a mortgage broker fee of £495 if he provides evidence.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and says he would like £2,500 compensation. He says the 
adverse information is still on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought the compensation appropriate. 
Mr B doesnt accept that view and questions what other evidence he can provide.
I asked Mr B for further information and for a copy of his credit file. I also asked for evidence 
of the broker fee as well as the dates he applied for the finance or evidence of the 
applications. Mr B has not replied to that request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and has fairly told us it has removed any adverse information from Mr 
Bs credit file.
There is no dispute that TSB made a mistake by registering the defaults on Mr Bs credit file. 
I have no doubt that had an impact on Mr B, and he would have been caused distress and 
inconvenience when he discovered that. I also accept that a default can impact on 
applications for lending.
The only issue for me to consider is the compensation level. I appreciate Mr B has provided 
some evidence of a refused mortgage application and car finance. I dont think either 
document is dated, and I find its impossible to be sure in those circumstances those refusals 
are linked to the default. I would have expected Mr B to at least have been able to have 
provided dates of the application and provided us with more evidence of them. And I can see 
that TSB has fairly said it would consider further compensation if Mr B could provide it with 
evidence of any expenses or costs he incurred.
I can also see that Mr B told TSB he paid a mortgage broker fee of just under £500 which 
again I would have expected TSB to have paid compensation for, if it received appropriate 
evidence. I have asked Mr B to provide such evidence which I think would be relatively 
straightforward to provide as there must be documentary evidence of it. But as Mr B hasnt 
replied to my request then I cant fairly order TSB repay that amount in these circumstances.
Overall, I accept Mr B was caused distress and inconvenience which took some time to sort 
out. I have not seen any evidence from Mr Bs credit file, despite a request for it, that shows 
the defaults are still registered.  So, Im satisfied that there is no evidence of direct financial 
loss here and that the compensation payment of £750 is appropriate. I find such an award in 
line with the type and amount of awards we would make for this type of issue. And that 
award fairly considers that this issue took some time to sort out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman