DRN-2861657
The complaint
Mr R is not happy with the way his insurance broker, First Central Insurance Management
Limited (First Central), dealt with the cancellation of his policy following the theft of his car.  
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen on 3 December 2019. Whilst his claim was being dealt with, he asked
First Central to give him a quote for adding his brothers car to his policy. First Central took
the details but said that the quote had been declined. The call handler was unable to explain
why. Mr R asked if he could get a quote if he temporarily bought his brothers car. The call
handler told him that this is what he had tried to do and it had been declined. He was
advised to come back when he had found another car. Mr R said that he could not afford to
buy a car until he received the settlement on his claim.
Mr R received his settlement in early January 2020 and purchased a new car a few weeks
later. He rang First Central and asked them to add the new car. He was told he should have
done this within seven days of his last call to them and his policy had already been
cancelled. He was also told that he owed £434.20 in outstanding premiums.
When Mr R queried the cancellation he was told that he had been sent an email on 24
December 2019. Mr R was not happy with this and complained to First Central. Mr R paid
the outstanding premiums in full.
First Central did not investigate Mr Rs complaint in full and closed his complaint without
offering any proper explanation. Mr R then brought his complaint to us. He was not happy
that his policy had been cancelled without any warning and that he was not told that he
should add a new car within a certain time frame.
Our investigator looked into the matter. During the investigation First Central accepted that
they had made mistakes. They agreed that the initial call had not been handled well and that
Mr R was not warned about cancellation. They also accepted that Mr R was not sent a
warning letter prior to cancellation. They apologised and offered £100 compensation for their
poor service.
Mr R was not happy with this and asked for our investigation to continue. Our investigator
upheld Mr Rs complaint. She said that First Centrals offer of compensation reflected Mr Rs
complaint about service but did not address his loss of the benefit of the policy. She thought
that Mr R should receive a refund of the value of his premiums from the date of cancellation
to the end of the policy term, plus interest. First Central did not agree, but did increase their
offer of compensation to £200. They said that Mr R would not have been entitled to a refund
of the policy because they had paid out on his claim, and that to refund the full amount would
be excessive.
Our investigator considered matters again but did not change her view. First Central thought
that a full refund was too much and asked for the matter to be considered by an
ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 3 June 2021. I said:
Mr R had an insurance policy arranged by First Central. First Central are not the insurers,
but they arranged the policy for Mr R and were his first point of contact with any queries. It
was them that he contacted when he wanted to add another car to his policy. His complaint
is about their handling of this matter.
If a policy is cancelled following a claim, the yearly policy premium would not usually be
refunded. This is because the insurer has paid out for the claim. The customer would still be
expected to pay the outstanding premiums for the remainder of the year. Whilst this is usual
practice, we think it fair for the customer to be offered the option of adding an alternative car
to the policy so that they can get the benefit of the remainder of the policy. We usually
expect the customer to be given a reasonable time to do this before the policy can be
cancelled.
First Central accept that they made mistakes and did not advise Mr R about cancellation.
They also accept that they did not send a letter warning of cancellation as is required under
the policy. They have offered a total of £200 compensation which they think is fair. However,
I think their mistakes go further than this and have had a greater impact on Mr R than just
poor service.
First Central did not advise Mr R before the policy was cancelled that he could continue to
benefit from the policy by adding another car. This advice only came in a letter dated 30
December 2019, after the policy had been cancelled. I think it would have been reasonable
to expect First Central to tell Mr R about this at the outset and to advise him of any time
limits that applied.
Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr R and First Central and I agree it was not
handled well. Mr R was not given a proper explanation for the quote being declined. I
suspect it was declined because the call handler had entered Mr Rs brother as the
registered keeper, but this was not properly explained to Mr R. Mr R was also not given a
quote if he were to buy his brothers car and register it in his name. He was simply advised
to come back when he had bought a new car. He was not told he should do this within seven
days  or within a reasonable time. Neither was he advised that his policy could be cancelled
or that if it was, he would have to pay the remaining policy premium.
The policy was then cancelled without warning.
Without all the above information, I do not think Mr R was given a proper opportunity to add
another car to the policy before it was cancelled. First Central have said that they should
have given Mr R seven days warning of the cancellation. Although this is what it says in the
policy, I think that Mr R should have been given a reasonable time to add a car before the
policy was cancelled. Bearing in mind the time that it can take to find and purchase a new
car, I think that 30 days would have been fair. If Mr R had been given this opportunity, he
could have added his new car to the policy. As a result of First Centrals mistake, he lost out
on the benefit of his policy for the remainder of its term.
Mr R received the settlement for his stolen car and then purchased a new one. He says he
didnt realise that his policy was cancelled. He accepts that he was sent the email cancelling
his policy but says he receives hundreds of emails and didnt read it. However, the policy
was already cancelled by this time, so it wouldnt have made any difference if he had read it.
He also then received the settlement letter advising him that he could add another car to his
policy. I think that even if Mr R had read his email properly, he may well have been confusedby the conflicting information sent.
Mr R says he only realised the policy was cancelled when he rang to add his new car. He
was also advised then that he needed to pay the outstanding premiums for the remainder of
the year. He says that he paid these as he was concerned about the consequences of not
doing so. Mr R then went on to organise insurance for his new car with another insurer.
Bearing all the above in mind I do not think that Mr R was treated fairly. I dont think that First
Centrals offer of compensation is sufficient to put Mr R back into the position he would have
been in had they not made a mistake. Not only did he receive poor service as accepted by
First Central, but he also lost the benefit of his policy for the remainder of its term. If Mr R
had been properly advised at the outset, it is likely that he would have been able to add his
new car to the policy. Instead, Mr R had to arrange insurance for the new car with a different
provider.
First Central have said that Mr R should not get a refund because he has made a claim on
the policy and therefore received the benefit of it. I accept that Mr R has received the benefit.
However, as a result of First Centrals mistake, Mr R has also lost out as he has had to pay
for cover for his new car from the date of purchase to the end of this policy. I dont know the
cost of Mr Rs new insurance so I dont know exactly how much he lost, but I think its likely
that he did suffer some financial loss. The investigator recommended the premiums for the
unused period of cover be refunded. As I have said, I cannot be sure of Mr Rs exact loss,
but without anything more concrete to go on I think that a refund of the premiums is likely to
be a fair amount to make up for this loss.
I intend therefore to require First Central to refund to Mr R the cost of the insurance policy
from the date of cancellation on 24 December 2019 to the end of the policy term on 1 July
2020. I do not intend to include interest as Mr R would always have had to pay these
premiums and so I cannot say that he was unfairly without this money.
First Central offered Mr R a total of £200 compensation for their mistake. However, this was
without a refund of the policy premiums. I think that it would be fair for Mr R to receive a
refund of the premiums plus £100 compensation for trouble and upset. Mr R was not advised
or warned about cancellation and so was not provided with the level of service that he
should have been. This caused him upset and he had the added inconvenience of arranging
new insurance.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R accepted my provisional decision. First Central responded that they didnt have 
anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require First Central Insurance Management Limited to:
refund to Mr R the sum of £434.20; andpay Mr R £100 compensation for trouble and upset
First Central Insurance Management Limited must pay the refund and compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the refund and compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If First Central Insurance Management Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman