DRN-3441236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs M booked a package holiday abroad through a travel agent. They
were due to fly to a country Ill call A on 3 September 2020 for around eight weeks. Mr and
Mrs M had paid a deposit for their trip, with the remaining balance due in late June 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad.
Mr and Mrs M were concerned about paying the balance of their trip. They say their travel
agent told them it was too early for it to cancel the trip and suggested they talk to AWP. So
on 16 June 2020, Mr M called AWP. The call handler told Mr M she thought it was too early
to cancel the trip, given the planned departure date was some weeks away. Mr M felt that as
the cancellation section of the policy didnt specify that cancellation due to changes in FCDO
advice would only be covered within a specific timeframe; any claim should be covered.
AWPs call handler said that shed refer this point on but told Mr M not to cancel the trip until
hed heard back from her. In the meantime, she agreed to set up a claim.
But AWP didnt call Mr M back that day and on 17 June 2020, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their
holiday. They made a claim on the policy for their deposit costs.
AWP turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said that the early cancellation of the holiday had
prejudiced its position. Thats because it said that if the FCDO advice hadnt changed by the
time Mr and Mrs M were due to travel, they may have been able to recover their costs from
the travel agent, or from their credit card provider.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
She noted that the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy covered trip cancellation due to the
FCDO advising against all but essential travel abroad. And while Mr and Mrs M had
cancelled their trip a few months before they were due to travel, the FCDO advice against
travel to A was still in place at the time Mr and Mrs M had been due to travel. So she felt that
AWP wouldve been liable to pay the claim even if Mr and Mrs M had waited until September
2020 to cancel it. This meant she didnt think AWP had been prejudiced by Mr and Mrs Ms
early cancellation. She recommended that AWP should pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim together
with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it had been fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether AWP
treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs M found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the holiday was
booked in May 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have
been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
AWPs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs M are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy says that AWP will pay for a policyholders share of the journey
deposits and costs which cannot be recovered from another source if they have to cancel
their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events. One of those listed reasons is
the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination.
Theres no dispute that at the time Mr and Mrs M chose to cancel their trip, on 17 June 2020,
the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to A. And I acknowledge that this
advice remained in place at the time Mr and Mrs M were due to travel. However, in my view,
the policy terms make it clear that AWP will only pay cancellation claims where a
policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. It seems to me, based on the booking
invoice, that Mr and Mrs S holiday was booked as a package holiday through their travel
agent.
In my view, the policy terms (in common with the terms of most, if not all, travel insurance
policies on the market) make it clear that AWP will only pay cancellation claims where a
policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. It seems to me, based on the booking
invoice, that Mr and Mrs M holiday was booked as a package holiday through their travel
agent.
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that includes two
or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking
invoice the travel agent provided Mr and Mrs M. I can see that they booked their flights, hotel
accommodation and their motor home through the travel agent. So I think this trip could fairly
be considered to be a package holiday.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that, in certain
circumstances, the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which
cant be provided. In this case, at the point Mr and Mrs M were due to travel, the FCDO
advice against travel was still in place, as were restrictions in A. And I think this means that
Mr and Mrs Ms package holiday would likely have had to have been cancelled by the
relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt have been fulfilled.
If this had been the case, I think its most likely that the travel agent wouldve been liableunder the PTR to refund all of the money Mr and Mrs M had paid for their trip. This means
their losses wouldve been legally recoverable from the travel agent. As Mr and Mrs M chose
to cancel their trip on 17 June 2020 though, incurring full cancellation charges, I think they
prejudiced AWPs position and incurred costs they might not have otherwise done.
I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs M chose to cancel their trip when they did. And I
sympathise with their position. But in this case, I think AWP had made it sufficiently clear that
it was likely too early to make a cancellation claim before Mr and Mrs M chose to cancel. Mr
and Mrs M have also indicated that their travel agent had said the same thing  that given
the timescales, it wasnt prepared to cancel their booking at that point. Despite this, they still
chose to cancel the trip rather than pay the balance and wait and see whether the FCDO
was still advising against all but essential travel at the point of departure.
On the facts of this case, I think that by choosing to cancel the holiday on 17 June 2020
without paying their trip balance, Mr and Mrs M put AWP in a worse position than it would
otherwise have been than if theyd waited to see if the FCDO was still advising against travel
at the point they were due to depart. Thats because I think theyd have therefore most likely
been entitled to a refund under the PTR. And if the travel agent had refused to refund Mr and
Mrs Ms costs, they could have looked into raising a dispute with the specific industry body
or making a claim to their credit card provider under the Consumer Credit Act.
I appreciate AWP didnt call Mr and Mrs M back immediately to confirm that a claim wouldnt
be payable in June 2020. But I dont think this delay caused Mr and Mrs M to lose out. I say
that because I think the call handler made it clear enough that Mr and Mrs M shouldnt
cancel the trip until theyd heard back from her. They had nine days before the trip balance
was due to chase AWP up if they hadnt heard anything and I think mightve been
reasonable for them to do so. Instead, they chose to cancel the trip just one day after their
call with AWP, knowing that a claim might not be payable and that their travel agent had said
it was too soon. So Im not telling AWP to take any action.
Overall, I currently think AWP acted fairly when it turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
AWP accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my provisional decision and they sent in detailed submissions 
in support of their position. Ive summarised their responses:
It was irrelevant that the FCDO advice had still been in place at the time they chose 
to cancel their trip. The question was who was liable for the recovery of their funds if 
they paid the balance whilst FCDO advice against travel was in place. They felt itd 
been prudent to minimise their liability;
The travel agents terms and conditions hadnt suggested this was a package holiday 
and theyd thought theyd be liable for the full costs of the motorhome, even if they 
hadnt been able to travel to use it;
AWP didnt follow-up with any information regarding any timeframes for FCDO 
associated events  instead it had sent Mr and Mrs M a claim form. They felt this was 
evidence that they could proceed with the cancellation of the holiday;
Theyd asked their travel agent if it would cancel the holiday, but it hadnt agreed to 
do so. This meant Mr and Mrs M had been left with no choice but to cancel the trip 
themselves;
AWP had received their claim form on 20 June 2020, so it had plenty of time to get 
back to them before the payment had been due on 25 June 2020 (not 27 June 2020);Theyd made a decision at a particular point in time, without the benefit of hindsight 
or foresight. And theyd been given very little practical assistance by AWP;
They maintained that the lack of clarity in the policy wording had prejudiced their 
position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I still think it was fair for AWP 
to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that while Ive summarised their detailed responses 
to my provisional findings, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. I havent 
commented on each and every point theyve made in my final decision though and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
I accept that the policy terms and conditions dont state at what point in time ahead of travel 
FCDO advice against travel to a policyholders destination must have been given. And Ive 
thought about this. But as I explained in my provisional decision, the policy terms make it 
clear that AWP will only cover costs which a policyholder cant recover from elsewhere.
In this case, as I set out, the booking invoice from Mr and Mrs Ms travel agent shows that 
they booked flights, accommodation and the motorhome through the agent. So Im still 
satisfied that this booking could fairly be treated as a package holiday and that therefore, the 
PTR wouldve likely applied to the terms of their booking. As FCDO advice against travel to 
A was still in place when Mr and Mrs M were due to travel, I still think its most likely that the 
travel agent and other providers wouldve had to cancel the booking. This wouldve meant 
that the booking contract couldnt have been fulfilled. And so I still find its likely that the 
travel agent, with whom Mr and Mrs M entered into the booking contract, wouldve been 
liable for their costs.
Mr and Mrs M have referred to the agents booking terms and conditions, which say:
Your booking consists of one or more components chosen by you and these are detailed on 
your confirmation. Cancellation or failure to supply one component does not constitute a 
failure to supply the booking as a whole.
They consider this means that they couldve been left liable for the full costs of the 
motorhome had the rest of the trip been cancelled, as the motorhome provider had 
continued to lease vehicles during the pandemic. I accept its possible that this may have 
been the case, although this term doesnt suggest that the trip isnt a package  simply that 
the trip is made up of individually selected components. However, if the travel agent had 
refused to refund Mr and Mrs Ms full trip booking costs, they couldve made a complaint to a 
specific industry body or a section 75 claim on their credit card to try and recover their costs. 
As they cancelled the trip without paying the balance though, these options were no longer 
available to them. So I still find that Mr and Mrs Ms actions prejudiced AWPs position, as I 
think they incurred cancellation charges they might not otherwise have done.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M did call AWP to ask for guidance ahead of the balance falling 
due on 25 June 2020. And that AWP didnt call them back with the information it said it 
would. It wouldve been helpful if the call handler had called Mr and Mrs M back ahead of 
sending out claims forms and Ive considered this point carefully. But it remains the case that 
Im satisfied the call handler made it clear, on 16 June 2020, that Mr and Mrs M shouldnt cancel the trip until theyd heard back from her. But Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip the 
following day, despite there still being seven days before the balance was due. I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for them to chase-up AWP before taking this step. They were also 
aware that the call handler thought the cancellation was too soon. And that the travel agent 
had broadly informed them the same thing and indeed, Mr and Mrs M say the travel agent 
wouldnt cancel their holiday. So it seems to me that theyd been given reasonable notice 
that it was too early to cancel the trip and they ought reasonably to have been aware there 
was a risk that the claim might not be paid.
It's clear Mr and Mrs M were in a difficult position. As I set out, I can entirely understand why 
they were concerned about paying the balance and took steps to mitigate their potential 
losses. And I do sympathise with their position. But on the specific facts of this case, I still 
think it was fair for AWP to turn down this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman