DRN-3849355
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt accept her phone number when 
opening an account.
What happened
Mrs C switched her current account to Lloyds in May 2022. On her application form, she 
added her phone number. But she couldnt use it for phone banking as Lloyds added to her 
profile two numbers held in their systems from her existing relationship within the banking 
group. Lloyds said that to change her number, she needed to use a personal security 
number (PSN) or visit a branch. Mrs C closed her account in September 2022.
Mrs C complained. She said she had put her phone number on the account application form. 
She couldnt see why Lloyds chose to use other numbers from their records - which were no 
longer her numbers. She said she hadnt received the PSN. 
Lloyds said Mrs C has products with another company within the Lloyds group and they took 
Mrs Cs numbers from her existing profile. These were from 2011 and 2017. To change her 
number, Lloyds sent her a PSN which she could use to change it  or she could visit a 
branch with ID to do so.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. Lloyds 
had sent Mrs C a PSN and it was reasonable for her to use this to change her number.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said she hadnt received a PSN. She asked that an ombudsman 
look at her complaint  and so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between 
customers and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of Lloyds  thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. 
So  here, its for Lloyds to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its 
business. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  
based on the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
I can see that Lloyds process was to use the numbers held in their records because of Mrs 
C having products elsewhere in the banking group. Lloyds said that they took those numbers 
in priority to the number given by Mrs C on her application form. So  that was their process 
and, as I have said, it is for Lloyds to decide that.
My role is to decide whether, in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint, she was treated 
reasonably. And I think she was  because Lloyds gave her a reasonable way to change her 
number  by sending a PSN. We asked Lloyds about this  as Mrs C says she didnt receive 
it. Lloyds showed us the evidence that it was sent to Mrs C on 19 June 2022. Mrs C says 
she didnt receive it  but we cant hold Lloyds responsible for that. 
I also asked Lloyds for their terms of business  to ensure they could use information held 
elsewhere in their group. Lloyds sent to us their data privacy notice which does say that 
they can use data from other parts of their banking group in several circumstances, including 
when a customer applies for a product or service. So  that confirmed that Lloyds acted 
within their terms and conditions here.
I can appreciate that Mrs C found it strange that Lloyds would use her old numbers in 
preference to the number she put on her application form. But having reviewed her 
complaint, I think Lloyds acted reasonably and I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman