DRN-3057665
The complaint
L complains about the decision of Aviva Insurance Limited to decline its business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Although other parties were at 
times involved in correspondence, I have only referred to L and Aviva for the sake of 
simplicity. L held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. The policy covered a 
range of risks, including for business interruption. 
In 2020, L contacted Aviva to claim for losses it had incurred due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. Aviva declined the claim. It said the core business interruption cover, along with a 
number of extensions to this, provided by Ls policy was based on the interruption having 
been caused by damage. And that neither COVID-19 nor the pandemic had caused 
damage as required by the policy. Aviva also said that the disease cover provided by a 
particular extension to the business interruption section was limited to a specified list of 
diseases. In its correspondence, Aviva did say that the wording did not provide cover for 
pandemics. 
L was unhappy with this outcome and complained, referring this complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman when Aviva did not alter its stance. Our Investigator considered the 
circumstances of the complaint, but did not think it should be upheld. He thought Aviva had 
applied the terms of the policy appropriately. 
As L remained unhappy, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on L, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that the type of cover Ls looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance. There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market 
covering different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire 
or flood, whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as 
optional add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy L took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ls policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ls business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ls claim. And I think 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ls claim under this area of cover.
Ls policy does include a couple of extensions to the business interruption section that do not 
require the cause to have been damage. I will refer to these as the Specified Disease 
extension and the Government Action extension. 
The Specified Disease extension
The Specified Disease extension in Ls policy provides cover where a disease has led to the 
premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover in the event of certain diseases. 
It says cover is provided for:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of Your Premises
However, the policy goes on to define Specified Disease as:
8.8.1 Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires, Disease Leprosy, 
Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal 
septicaemia, Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, 
Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, 
Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping 
cough, Yellow fever
8.8.2 Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses: Lassa virus, Junin 
virus, Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, 
Crimean-Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Yellow 
fever virus, Dengue virus.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided L with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Aviva to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Aviva intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Aviva deliberately 
chose to define Specified Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy L has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy L has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
I do note that Aviva said in its complaint response that the wording in the policy did not 
provide cover for pandemics. However, whilst there isnt a term specifically providing cover 
for pandemics, it might be that one of the Specified Diseases could cause a pandemic and in 
such hypothetical circumstances the policy might provide cover for a pandemic. So, I dont 
think Aviva was as clear as it could have been here.  
But Ls claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
And a pandemic caused by a disease that is not included in the list, would not be covered by 
the policy.  
As cover was not provided under this area of Ls policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Avivas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
The Government Action extension
The second extension in Ls policy that does not require the cause of the interruption to be 
damage is the Government Action extension. This provides cover where a relevant 
authority has prevented or restricted access to the insured premises. However, it also says 
that it does not cover:
action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing the spread of any disease
The actions taken by the Government in March 2020, and at other points during the period of 
insurance, which may have caused a restriction on access to Ls premises were taken to 
prevent the spread of COVID-19. As such, I think it is clear that this extension does not 
provide cover in the circumstances of the claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Aviva should have met as claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for L and its director, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman