DRN-3559767
The complaint
Mrs D complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In May 2013 Mrs D applied for, and was given a loan for £3,000, which was repayable over a 
period of 36 months. The repayments were around £155 a month, and in total Mrs D agreed 
to pay back just over £5,500 over the three years, once interest was added. The reason 
given for taking out the loan was to pay for a wedding.
In August 2014 Mrs D applied for, and was given a new loan for £5,000, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £180 a month, and in 
total Mrs D agreed to pay back just over £10,700. This loan was used to repay the previous 
loan, as well as consolidate some other debts Mrs D had. It was repaid in August 2019.
Mrs D says 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given her the loans because they werent 
affordable. 1Plus1 Loans says it did check whether the loans were affordable, and Mrs D 
had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. 1Plus1 Loans disagreed, so 
this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint. 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs D 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs D would be able to pay the loans in a sustainable way. 
Loan 1
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree with 
the investigator that given the total cost of repaying the money Mrs D was borrowing, the 
information she had provided about her income and expenditure, together with the 
information on her credit file, 1Plus1 Loans checks werent good enough. 
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mrs D before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of her income and expenditure and verified these with third parties. It reviewed her 
credit file to understand her credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan, which was for a wedding. From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans 
concluded that Mrs D had enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan. But I dont 
think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill 
explain why.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded Mrs D had a monthly disposable income of 
around £230. This included a buffer of £200 on top of her recorded expenses but didnt 
include the cost of the new loan. And on the face of it, this might suggest she did have 
enough to afford the monthly repayment. But the information 1Plus1 Loans had from Mrs Ds 
credit file, shows it was unlikely she did have this amount of disposable income.
The credit file showed Mrs D had four accounts that had been defaulted in the preceding six 
months, including one that had defaulted just three months earlier. 1Plus1 Loans recorded 
that Mrs D was making payments towards the outstanding balances on these accounts each 
month. 
The fact Mrs D had defaults recorded on her credit file, wouldnt necessarily be enough on 
its own to say she couldnt afford the new loan. I take 1Plus1 Loans point that given the 
nature of the loans it offers, most of its customers will have a less than perfect credit score. 
But recent defaults, on accounts with relatively low balances, would indicate Mrs D probably 
didnt have the level of disposable income 1Plus1 Loans concluded she had  otherwise 
shes unlikely to have ended up with the defaults in the first place.
Mrs D also had another two loan accounts, including one with a significant outstanding 
balance. The other had a much smaller balance, but Mrs D was in arrears with her 
repayments on this account. Again, this would suggest Mrs D was unlikely to have the level 
of disposable income 1Plus1 Loans checks showed she had. In fact, it shows she was 
already struggling to afford to repay the debt she had, and that was before the added 
expenditure of the repayments towards the new loan she was taking out.
While it would be helpful to have more information about Mrs Ds financial situation in 2013, 
by way of bank statements for example, I dont think this is needed for me to make a fair 
decision. Based on the information we do have  and that 1Plus1 Loans had at the time  I 
think theres enough to say Mrs D wasnt in a position to take on any more debt. So I think it 
was wrong of 1Plus1 Loans to give the loan to Mrs D. 
Loan 2
Again, 1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the second loan was affordable. In 
addition to the checks it did for the first loan, it also got a copy of Mrs Ds recent bank 
statement to verify her income. From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans again concluded 
that Mrs D had enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan. But again, I dont think 
it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill explain 
why.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded she had a monthly disposable income of 
around £230. This included a buffer of £200 on top of her recorded expenses but didnt 
include the cost of the new loan, or payments towards any of the accounts she was repaying 
with this loan. And on the face of it, this might suggest she did have enough to meet the cost 
of the monthly repayment. But the information 1Plus1 Loans had from Mrs Ds credit file, 
shows it was unlikely she did have this amount of disposable income.
The credit file now showed Mrs D had six accounts that had been defaulted, including one 
that had defaulted since she took out the first loan. The outstanding balances for the majority 
of these, as well as the loan account that was in arrears, had hardly reduced since she took 
out the previous loan, which would suggest she hadnt been making payments towards them 
over the last year or so. 1Plus1 Loans has pointed to the fact Mrs D didnt miss any of the repayments on the first 
loan, to show she had been able to sustainably repay this loan. I disagree. Being able to 
sustainably repay credit is doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further. And the information from the credit file 
shows Mrs D couldnt do this.
Mrs Ds bank statements from the time also suggest she was having difficulties managing 
her money when she took out the second loan. For example, a number of direct debits had 
been returned unpaid over the course of the preceding month. 
All of this suggests Mrs D was struggling financially when she took out the second loan. And 
while ordinarily consolidating debts might reduce someones outgoings, I dont think this was 
the case for Mrs D. As Ive said, it doesnt look like she had been making payments towards 
the debts that were being consolidated, so she wasnt really reducing her outgoings by 
settling these accounts. 
As the information available to 1Plus1 Loans showed Mrs D hadnt been able to sustainably 
repay the first loan, I dont think it should have given her the second loan. Mrs Ds outgoings 
werent going to reduce in a way shed be likely to be able to sustainably make the 
repayments on the second loan, with a higher monthly repayment.
Putting things right
When I find a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  as far 
as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if 
the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mrs D in the 
position she would now be in if she hadnt been given the loans in question. However, this 
isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Mrs D was given the loans and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs D back in the position she would be 
in if she hadnt been given the loans in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way 
of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think 1Plus1 Loans should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. The 
payments Mrs D made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mrs D has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mrs D to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited 
should put things right for Mrs D in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman