DRN-3814387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that in May 2021 Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster) failed to make it
clear to them that they would not be able to revert back to the UFirst Private account, when
they asked for their account to be downgraded to a fee-free account.
Mr and Mrs M would like their account to be changed back to a UFirst Private account.
What happened
In response to the complaint, Ulster conceded that it shouldve made it clear to Mr and Mrs
M that the UFirst Private account had been withdrawn to new applications, and so shouldve
highlighted to Mr and Mrs M that if they downgraded their account, they would not be able to
reinstate it. In recognition of this, Ulster offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £50 to apologise for the
error.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our
adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that Ulsters offer was reasonable. Mr
and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2022, explaining why I thought Ulster needed 
to do more than pay Mr and Mrs M £50 to put matters right. I have included an extract of my 
provisional decision below and it forms part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint.
From what I have seen, it does not appear to be in doubt that Ulster failed to make it 
clear to Mr and Mrs M that they would not be able to revert back to the UFirst Private 
account, when they asked for it to be downgraded. And Ulster says that this is 
something that shouldve been made clear to them at the time. As such, I dont think 
its in dispute that Ulster made an error.
Therefore, it leaves me to consider what, if anything, Ulster should do to put matters 
right. 
In the circumstances, it seems likely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve not downgraded 
their account, had they known they would not be able to get it back again. I say this 
especially as Mr and Mrs M say they only wanted to temporarily downgrade it and 
then a while later did ask for their account be reverted back to being a UFirst Private 
account. I understand they wanted to revert back especially as they liked the 
unlimited airport lounge access it provided and say they are now having to pay a fair 
bit more than the account cost, even for limited airport lounge access.
Ideally, I would now ask Ulster to revert things to the way they were, as this would be 
the most straightforward way of putting Mr and Mrs M back into the position they 
wouldve been in, had the error not occurred. To do this, I wouldve required Ulster to 
reinstate the UFirst Private account for Mr and Mrs M, and to refund what Mr and Mrs 
M have had to pay for airport lounge access, less the extra amounts they wouldve 
paid in account fees, to continue with the UFirst Private package on their account.
However, unfortunately Ulster says it is unable to do this, as its system will not allow 
a UFirst Private account to be added to an account.
Given this, I have gone on to consider how else Ulster could reasonably put Mr and 
Mrs M back into the position they wouldve been in, had the error not occurred. It 
seems that Mr and Mrs M are mostly aggrieved that they have lost the unlimited 
airport lounge access that was provided as a benefit of their UFirst Private account. 
So in the circumstances, I think that a fair way for Ulster to put matters right is by 
paying Mr and Mrs M an amount of compensation that will allow them to take out 
equivalent airport lounge passes for a reasonable period of time, plus a measure of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that has occurred.
Because of this, I think that Ulster should do more, beyond the offer it made in its 
final response letter, to put matters right.
In this case, Mr and Mrs M have provided evidence to show that they have spent 
£189 each for a years worth of airport lounge access. However, they say that the 
replacement product they have purchased is not a like-for-like replacement, as it only 
included limited lounge access. Whereas I understand the access provided by the 
UFirst Private account was unlimited.
I have looked at what the provider of the UFirst Private airport lounge access charges 
for unlimited airport lounge access. According to the providers website, it costs £268 
per person, per year, for unlimited airport lounge access. Therefore, in an attempt to 
put Mr and Mrs M back into the position they wouldve been in, had they not 
downgraded their account, I currently think that Ulster should pay Mr and Mrs M the 
cost for both of them to have unlimited lounge access, less what they wouldve paid 
had they continued with the UFirst Private account. So the deduction should only be 
based on the extra cost of the UFirst Private account beyond what they did (or will) 
pay in account fees since they downgraded to a cheaper account.
I have considered for how long a period they should receive this for  because 
arguably Mr and Mrs M couldve continued to hold a UFirst Private account for some 
time. The award should cover a reasonable amount of time. And in this case, I think a 
reasonable period of time is two years. I say this because Mr and Mrs M have said 
since they removed the UFirst Private package from their account, theyve paid for 
two consecutive years of airport lounge access  so I think its likely that they 
wouldve kept the account for at least that time.
However, when deciding how long a period this should cover, Ive also taken into 
account the possibility that Ulster may well change the benefits, or completely 
remove (from existing account holders) the UFirst Private account, beyond this 
period of time. So I dont think its reasonable for Ulster to essentially keep funding 
Mr and Mrs Ms airport lounge access in perpetuity in the future, or indeed, beyond a 
two year period of time since they downgraded.Finally, I note that this matter has caused inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M  not just 
in them having to complain, but also in having to source alternative products 
elsewhere. And in light of the inconvenience they have experienced, I currently think 
that Ulster should pay them a further £50 for the distress and inconvenience they 
have experienced  which would bring the total award up to £100 (taking into account 
what Ulster has already paid Mr and Mrs M) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Putting matters right
So, based on what I have said above, Im currently intending to require Ulster to do 
the following to put matters right:
Pay Mr and Mrs M £1,072 (4 x £268  representing 2 years of unlimited 
airport lounge access for Mr and Mrs M from the UFirst Private product 
provider, to replicate the airport lounge benefit they received under the UFirst 
Private account);
Less the extra amount Mr and Mrs M wouldve paid for the UFirst Private 
package, for a two-year period, calculated from when the account was 
downgraded (i.e. the amount to be deducted should be based on the 
difference between the monthly cost of the UFirst Private account and what 
they did or will actually pay for their account, over a period of 24 months); and
Pay Mr and Mrs M a further £50, for the distress and inconvenience they have 
experienced as a result of this matter.
Both Ulster and Mr and Mrs M responded to my provisional decision. 
Ulster said that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M in summary said that they 
find it inconceivable that the UFirst Private account cant be reinstated, or compensation 
cannot be paid for as long as the UFirst Private account remains as an account to existing 
account holders. 
Mr and Mrs M say that the redress should continue to be paid on an annual basis, for as 
long as the account exists and for as long as theyre able to provide proof that they have 
purchased airport lounge passes each year. Mr and Mrs M also say they believe the airport 
lounge passes cost £339 per year, and not £268 per year as I said in the provisional 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having reconsidered everything, I still 
think that what I said Ulster should do to put matters right is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say they find it inconceivable that the UFirst Private account cant be 
reinstated. However, whilst I do understand why theyre saying this, Ulster has confirmed 
that its not able to reinstate that account. As such, I cant instruct Ulster to do something that 
it has already told our service it is unable to do. Which is why Ive then gone on to consider 
how else it can put matters right.In my provisional decision, I said that the redress Ulster should pay Mr and Mrs M should 
cover a period of two years from when their account was downgraded. Mr and Mrs M say 
that it should continue for as long as the account exists and theyre able to prove theyre 
buying airport lounge passes. But I think awarding the redress to cover a period of two years 
is reasonable, as it covers them from when their account was downgraded up until May 
2023. But as there are too many variables that could occur beyond that date (for example if 
Ulster change or remove the airport lounge access benefit on the existing UFirst Private 
account), I dont think it is reasonable or practical to extend the redress out beyond that date. 
Instead, I am satisfied that a lump sum that Mr and Mrs M can use as they see fit is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, Mr and Mrs M say that unlimited annual passes cost £339 per person, per year. Im 
not sure where they have obtained this figure from  perhaps the provider they currently use 
to buy airport lounge passes from. I said that the redress should be based on a figure of 
£268 per person, per year, as that is the cost quoted for one years worth of unlimited airport 
lounge access on the website of the same lounge pass provider as the UFirst Private 
account. I think this is a reasonable approach to take, as it provides the best like-for-like 
comparison with what Mr and Mrs M wouldve received had they continued with the UFirst 
Private account.
So having reconsidered everything, I still think that the redress I set out in my provisional 
decision is reasonable, although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M may see things differently.
Putting things right
I require Ulster to do the following, to put matters right:
Pay Mr and Mrs M £1,072 (4 x £268  representing 2 years of unlimited airport 
lounge access for Mr and Mrs M from the UFirst Private product provider, to replicate 
the airport lounge benefit they received under the UFirst Private account);
Less the extra amount Mr and Mrs M wouldve paid for the UFirst Private package, 
for a two-year period, calculated from when the account was downgraded (i.e. the 
amount to be deducted should be based on the difference between the monthly cost 
of the UFirst Private account and what they did or will actually pay for their account, 
over a period of 24 months); and
Pay Mr and Mrs M a further £50, for the distress and inconvenience they have 
experienced as a result of this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Ulster Bank Ltd to 
do what I have set out above, to put matters right, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman