DRN-3065537
Complaint
Miss F has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
applied to her current account. Shes said the charges were unfair.
Background
Miss Fs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with. I think 
its also important for me to state that there is an automatic right to a refund of the fees 
charged as Miss F appears to believe.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss F if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Fs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Miss F was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Miss F fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Miss F even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought 
to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided 
throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware 
that Miss F might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Miss F only really used her overdraft occasionally. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Miss F expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean 
that Miss F wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial 
difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss F, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think Barclays charged Miss F in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it 
was unfair to do so. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss F  especially as it has taken 
sometime for her complaint to reach this stage. But I hope shell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman