DRN-3482896
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he was struggling to pay off his overdraft and Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account which contributed to 
his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr P complained to Lloyds that its charges had caused him financial hardship and requested 
a refund of charges. Lloyds says all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that it was account management rather than financial 
difficulties that keep him in overdraft.
Mr P was dis-satisfied with this and brought the complaint to this service
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and thought that Lloyds shouldve realised that 
Mr P was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the account 
from November 2015 because they thought the management of his account showed Mr P 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and that Lloyds ought to have realised he was in 
financial difficulty. 
Lloyds disagreed  it says it believes Mr Ps account activity suggests poor account 
management rather than financial difficulties. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 5 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision. As neither party had any further information to add the outcome of 
Mr Ps complaint hasnt changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Mr P is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ps account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr P was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr P fairly and 
reasonably. And overall, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr P unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because having a detailed look at Mr Ps statements (including the other accounts 
held with Lloyds not the subject of this complaint) they present a somewhat chaotic picture 
with numerous cash transfers in and out across the accounts. I dont think it can be said from 
the statements alone that it was clear Mr P was in financial difficulty, rather than a 
mismanagement of his financial affairs. 
Although Mr P spent the majority of time overdrawn, I can also see that he earned a healthy 
salary which went into another account. In this account there were other large cash transfers 
which couldve bought the overdraft right down or paid it off. From this account there would 
be transfers out  some of which were clearly to pay bills and credit cards, while others - and 
Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over his expenditure - are significant 
and at times large amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions. 
And from the account the subject of this complaint I can see regular standing orders of 
around £300 going out to a building society account and £250 to an investment account. I 
acknowledge that these amounts did decrease a little as time went on and that while this 
wasnt enough to pay off his overdraft in full, this and cutting back on other non-committed 
transactions, I think, wouldve been certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off within a 
reasonable time should he have chosen to do so.
Mr P may has told us that for much of the time he was living overseas and running two 
households and that his wife at the time was managing the money. I accept that he may 
have found it difficult to manage all his financial affairs from overseas, but ultimately he is 
responsible for the management of his accounts. And besides utilising his overdraft there 
isnt anything else on the statements such as returned payments, or exceeding his limit 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial difficulty.  
So, in these circumstances I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong and I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light 
of how Mr Ps account was being used. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr P unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman