DRN-4066779
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Capital One wont reimburse him the money he lost after falling victim 
to a romance scam.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr D successfully applied to Capital One for a new credit account. 
Shortly after the account was opened, Mr D began using the account to make payments to a 
person he now understands to have been a scammer. Over the course of several months, 
Mr D made numerous payments totalling several thousands of pounds to this person, with 
whom he believed he had a romantic relationship.
In May 2022, Mr D realised that hed fallen victim to scam and so he contacted Capital One 
and notified them that all the payments to the scammer were fraudulent and asked them to 
recover or reimburse the money that hed lost. Capital One looked at Mr Ds request, but 
they werent willing to attempt to recover Mr Ds lost money or reimburse it back to him as he 
was wanting. Mr D wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One responded to Mr Ds complaint and explained that because Mr D had authorised 
the payments, they didnt feel a claim to try to recover the money on the basis of fraud was 
appropriate. Capital One also didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by processing the payments  
Mr D had instructed, and so didnt feel they should reimburse the money to him. Mr D wasnt 
satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Capital One had contacted 
Mr D after hed made one of the first payments to the scammer to check whether Mr D was 
happy to authorise that payment  which Mr D had confirmed that he was. 
Our investigator therefore didnt feel that the later similar payments Mr D had made should 
have reasonably been considered as potentially fraudulent by Capital One, such that Capital 
One should have prevented them completing. Mr D wasnt happy with the view of this 
complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its only natural to empathise with Mr Ds position here and sympathise with 
the difficult and distressing circumstance he finds himself in. But I feel that I need to begin by 
confirming that my professional position as an ombudsman is an impartial one, and that as 
such Im unable to allow any personal feelings of sympathy which I may have to influence 
my professional decision.
Id also like to confirm that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt 
operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to declare that Capital One 
have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would be for a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, and regarding the specific parameters and circumstances of a complaint.
In this instance, it isnt in dispute that Mr D has been the victim of a scam. I can therefore 
confidently say that a fair and just resolution to Mr Ds overall situation here would be the 
direct recovery of the money that he has lost from the scammers themselves. 
But this complaint hasnt been raised against the scammers, but instead has been brought to 
this service by Mr D against Capital One  whom Mr D feels should reimburse the money to 
him that he lost to the scammers. As such, when considering this complaint, Ive asked 
whether it can be reasonably said that Capital One did or didnt act in such a way that they 
should fairly be considered as being accountable for Mr D losing the money that he did. 
Accordingly, one of the first questions Ive asked is whether Capital One should have 
allowed the payments that Mr D instructed to be made to the scammer to have completed in 
the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that Capital One is expected to process 
payments that its customer  in this case Mr D  authorises it to make, in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of that customers account. 
Theres no debate that Mr D authorised the payments in dispute here. I say this because, at 
the time Mr D sent the money to the scammer, he wanted the payments to be made. And 
although Mr D didn't realise at that time that he was being tricked, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  which are the relevant regulations that apply here  Mr D is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
But thats not the end of the story. And, when considering not only the law, but also 
regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the relevant time, I feel that Capital One should fairly and reasonably:
 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Considering the first two points above, its clear that Capital One were monitoring Mr Ds 
account and did have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions. I say this 
because Capital Ones automated systems did flag one of the early payments that Mr D 
made to the scammer as being potentially problematic. As a result, Capital One sent a text message to Mr D which asked him to confirm that the 
flagged payment was being made by himself and was authorised by himself accordingly. 
And Mr D duly responded to that text message and confirmed that he was making that 
payment and that he did authorise it, after which Capital One allowed the payment to 
complete.
So, Im satisfied both that it was incumbent on Capital One in the first instance to process 
the payments that Mr D was instructing, and that Capital One were monitoring Mr Ds 
account for potentially fraudulent account activity and that they contacted Mr D about one of 
the payments he made to the scammer and obtained confirmation from him that the payment 
was legitimate and was authorised before they allowed it to complete.
But, in consideration of the third point above, the question remains whether Capital One 
should have reasonably done more than that which Ive described above here. And so, Ive 
considered the nature of the payments that Mr D was making to the scammer as well as the 
wider context of those payments to decide whether I feel Capital One should have 
recognised that Mr D may have been in the process of being scammed, despite the 
authorisation theyd already obtained from Mr D regarding one of the instructed payments.
One thing that can be indicative that a scam is occurring is if the payments leaving an 
account are unusual and out of character with how that account has usually been maintained 
up to that time. For instance, if an account displays a history of only small transactions, it 
would be unusual to see large transfers leaving the account to a new payee.
However, in this instance, Mr D only opened the Capital One account a few days before he 
began making payments to the scammer. And so, I dont feel it can be said that the 
payments Mr D was making to the scammer  which it must be noted were generally 
relatively small in nature  should have been considered by Capital One as being unusual in 
consideration of how the account was usually maintained  because there was no account 
history against which to make such a judgement. 
Additionally, as alluded to above, the payments that Mr D made to the scammer were of 
relatively small amounts, with Mr D making many such payments over the course of several 
weeks. And this meant that it wasnt the case that Mr D made any large single payments to 
the scammer, which may have alerted Capital One that something potentially untoward was 
taking place.
Mr D may argue that the number of payments and the cumulative total being transferred 
should have given Capital One cause for concern such that they should reasonably have 
intervened. But it must be noted that there are many millions of card payments made each 
day, and so it wouldn't be possible or reasonable to expect a payment services provider to 
check each one. 
Instead, theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. 
And, in this instance, because the payments were all relatively small, and because Mr D had 
confirmed to Capital One that one of the early payments to the scammer was genuine, I 
dont feel that there was anything in the similar payments that followed to the same payee 
that should reasonably have alerted Capital One that the payments may not have been 
legitimate and that Mr D may have been in the process of being scammed  such that 
Capital One shouldnt have allowed those payments to have completed.To reiterate, this isnt to say that Mr D wasnt the victim of a scam here  its very clear that 
he was. But it is to say that I dont feel that Capital One should be asked to reimburse Mr D 
the money that he lost at Capital Ones own expense. 
Mr D may ask why, if Capital Ones systems recognised that an early payment may have 
been fraudulent, he wasnt telephoned and spoken to by Capital One, rather than a text 
message being sent that simply asked him to confirm that he authorised the payment. But a 
business is expected to respond proportionately to level of perceived risk. And because the 
payment was relatively small, the level of perceived risk was corresponding relatively small. 
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Capital One to have sent the text message 
to Mr D that they did, rather than speaking with Mr D personally, as may have been more 
appropriate had the payment been of a larger amount.
Mr D may also point out that he asked Capital One to recover his money directly from the 
scammer in the first instance, which may have been possible and which Capital One didnt 
attempt to do. But Capital One have explained that the payments were made to an account 
held with a payment services provider  and not, for instance, directly to a personal bank 
account  and note that the payment services provider in question doesnt respond to 
requests to provide information of their holder such that a recovery could be pursued.
Capital One also note that the payments were made over a long period of time and that Mr D 
didnt bring his concerns to Capital One until approximately a month after he had made the 
last payment to the scammer. As such, it was considered very unlikely that there would be 
any money left in the receiving account by the scammer to be recovered. Capital Ones 
position here seems reasonable to me, although I feel Capital One could have referred Mr D 
to the payment services provider in question to try to recover his money, albeit with the 
caveat of a low expected probability of success.
Finally, Mr D has explained that he has a medical condition which means that hes a 
vulnerable customer. Ive noted that Mr D is vulnerable, but there isnt anything in the 
evidence provided by both Mr D and Capital One which indicates that Mr D isnt in full control 
of his finances. And theres no suggestion that Capital One were made aware of Mr Ds 
vulnerabilities before the scam took place, such that they ought to have taken special care 
with Mr Ds account in light of his vulnerability.
 
All of which means that I dont feel that Capital One have acted unfairly towards Mr D here 
as he maintains, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Capital One to take any further action. 
With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that the payments Mr D was making were 
going to a scammer. But, as I've explained above, I feel that when Mr D started to send the 
money, the true nature of the situation wouldnt have been obvious to Capital One. This is 
because Capital One did obtain confirmation from Mr D that he authorised one of the early 
payments to the scammer, and because I dont think the ongoing payments Mr D was 
making did display sufficient risk factors of potentially fraudulent activity. And this means I'm 
unable to fairly conclude that Capital One let Mr D down by failing to identify and challenge 
those payments at that time.
Theres no doubt that Mr D has been the victim of a very cruel scam. He's been tricked by a 
person who deliberately misled him about their intentions in order to take money from him, 
and he's been left to pick up the pieces, both emotionally and financially. I dont 
underestimate how difficult this has been for Mr D, or continues to be, and I acknowledge 
that hes been left with a credit card debt as a result.And while I dont feel that any of what happened here can fairly be considered as being 
Capital Ones fault, it would be expected that Capital One would look to help Mr D find a way 
to pay back the money he borrowed from them while he was being scammed  if he 
struggles to do so. As such, if Mr D begins to experience financial difficulties, he should 
contact Capital One to discuss his circumstances with them. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting here. But I hope hell understand, 
given everything Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman