DRN-3251270
The complaint
Mr W complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc and their decision to decline his car insurance 
application.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr W took a car insurance policy with AXA for a separate car, which Ill 
refer to as Car A. In June of that year, Mr W submitted a quote to AXA to insure his second 
car, which Ill refer to as Car B with them as well, to make use of their multi-car policy 
incentive.
But AXA declined Mr Ws quote, due the age of Car B. But Mr W was unhappy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Mr W was unhappy with AXAs decision to decline his quote for Car B as well as the length 
of time it took them to reach this decision. He explained hed been caused sleepless nights 
waiting for a decision on the insurance quote. And he said hed been unable to find suitable 
insurance for Car B since and he believed this was due to AXA declining his quote. So, he 
wanted to be compensated for the worry and upset hed been caused.
AXA responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly, and in line with their 
underwriting criteria, when declining Mr Ws quote due to the age of his car. And they 
thought theyd followed their usual process to reach this decision. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained it was AXAs 
commercial decision to not insure cars over the age of 25 years on new policies. And they 
explained our service is unable to comment upon, or make businesses change, commercial 
decision they make. But they were satisfied Mr Ws quote was considered in line with AXAs 
underwriting criteria and so, they didnt think AXA had done anything wrong when declining 
the quote. So, they didnt think AXA needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained his view that AXA had taken an unreasonable amount of 
time to decide they couldnt insurance Car B. And he maintained his belief that this 
declinature had impacted his ability to obtain future insurance, which he thought was unfair. 
So, Mr W maintained his view that AXA should compensate him for the upset hed been 
caused. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. While Mr Ws complaint has been with our service, I 
can see hes raised concerns about the way AXA have handled a claim involved Car A. This 
is a complaint about a different issue, relating to a different policy Mr A holds. And Ive seen 
no evidence to show AXA had responded to this complaint separately or had chance to do 
so. And even if they have, Mr Ws complaint about the quote declinature was accepted by 
our service before Mr Ws concerns about the way his claim was handled began. So, this 
decision will focus on the quote declinature for Car B only and Mr Ws complaint about AXA 
and the claim registered against Car A will need to be considered by our service separately if 
required.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I recognise Mr W 
wanted to make use of AXAs multicar policy incentive. And as Car B had been insured 
previously, I can understand why Mr W would assume there would be no issues insuring his 
car with AXA. So, when he was told he quote for insurance had been declined, I can 
understand the upset this wouldve caused. And I recognise it took four days for this decision 
to be provided and during that time period, Mr W wouldnt have had assurance that his 
insurance had been arranged. But for me to say AXA have done something wrong, Id need 
to be satisfied they made a mistaken when declining Mr Ws insurance. So, Id need to see 
evidence that they failed to follow their own business process and underwriting criteria when 
coming to that decision. Or, if I think they didnt make a mistake, that it was unreasonable of 
them to make that decision. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I understand Mr W doesnt think its fair for AXA to say that they wont insure cars on new 
policies once they are over 25 years of age. But this is a commercial decision AXA are 
entitled to make as they are entitled to decide the level of risk they are willing to insure. And 
commercial decisions arent something our service can comment upon or ask businesses to 
change. This would be the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
So, Im unable to say AXAs decision to refuse provide new insurance policies to cars over 
this age is unfair. But I can consider whether AXA followed their own business process, and 
underwriting criteria, when reaching their decision to decline the quote. And I think they have 
here.
Ive seen an e-mail from AXAs underwriters confirming Mr Ws car fell outside of the age 
they were willing to insure. And Ive seen AXAs underwriting criteria, including screenshots 
of the underwriting process and guide, which confirms this. So, I cant say AXA have done 
anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr W says this declinature has made it more difficult for him to obtain insurance 
for Car B. And while Ive not seen evidence to show this, I dont dispute Mr Ws testimony. 
But Im only able to ask AXA to change the declinature if I think the quote was declined 
incorrectly, or unfairly. And I dont think thats the case in this situation. 
And although I appreciate it took AXA four days to communicate this decision to Mr W, I 
dont think that amount of time was unreasonable. Ive seen AXAs system notes, which 
show Mr W was unable to input Car Bs registration into the system as part of the quote. So, 
I think this meant AXA needed to complete additional work to obtain Mr Ws car information 
and then from that, process the quote through their underwriting team to reach a decision. 
And Ive seen the quote was generated on a Friday, with the declinature decision being communicated to Mr W on a Tuesday. So, the underwriting process took around two working 
days, which I dont think is an unreasonable amount of time. 
And Ive seen Mr W himself confirm Car B was insured with another provided until 13 July, 
so for a further two weeks after AXA declined the quote. So, Mr W was able to use the 
vehicle and I dont think the length of time AXA took to respond prevented him from doing 
so. Because of this, although I recognise Mr W wouldve been left wondering whether the 
quote would be accepted and the worry this may have caused, I dont think this was because 
of anything AXA did wrong. And so, I dont think AXA need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I appreciate this doesnt help 
address Mr Ws difficulty in obtaining insurance for Car B. But as Ive explained, Im only 
able to direct AXA to take a certain action, or provide compensation, if I think theyve done 
something wrong. And I dont think they have on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman