DRN-3812829
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by BERKSHIRE IFA LIMITED regarding the lifetime 
allowance (LTA) and his pension funds.
What happened
In 2016 Mr L was made redundant. He had an occupational pension, part of which was a 
defined benefit (DB) pension which would provide a pension based on his salary and 
length of service, and part was a defined contribution (DC) pension, the value of which 
would depend on how the fund performed. 
He received a redundancy payment which he invested in the DC part of his occupational 
pension. This was then transferred into another pension from a previous employment and 
this provided Mr L with an income for four years until August 2020, when he would be able to 
take his DB pension. 
In 2020 Mr L sought advice from Berkshire about his retirement. An illustration provided in 
August 2020 showed the DB pension would provide a pension of £47,316 per year. 
Alternatively, he could take tax free cash £238,767 and a pension of £35,815.  The transfer 
value was £1.6m but for LTA purposes it was calculated as £946,329.
If Mr L decided to transfer his DB pension. the transfer value meant he would exceed the 
lifetime allowance.
In September 2020 G advised Mr L that he qualified for Fixed Protection 2016 (FP2016) (a 
form of protection that would provide an LTA of £1,250,000). 
In October 2020 Berkshire issued its report to Mr L. G had recommended that he transfer the 
DB pension to a personal pension and invest in various funds, and told him he could apply 
for fixed protection 2016. Mr L asked Berkshire for advice on his LTA. Berkshire 
recommended that he apply for FP2016. Mr L applied for and obtained FP2016 through the 
HMRC website.
The transfer of Mr Ls DB pension completed in December 2020. 
A letter from Berkshire dated 24 November said 
the expected transfer value was £1,583,000  above the LTA of £1,073,100
he had crystalised his other pension, using 14.79% of his LTA £158,711  leaving a 
balance of £914,389
but he had obtained protection for an LTA of £1,250,000.
The letter set out three options for taking his pension once it had been transferred. 
Mr L says he questioned the advice in January 2021 and was told it was correct. Berkshire 
then recommended crystallising £1,065,000 and accessing a lump sum of £266,000. In 
February 2021 Mr L proceeded in line with the advice.
Mr L found he wasnt in fact eligible for the LTA protection so when he attempted to take tax 
free cash this left him with a higher LTA tax charge than he would have had otherwise. He 
complained about the advice given to him.
In its final response to the complaint Berkshire said: 
There were some errors by G in recommending that Mr L take out FP(2016) and 
crystallise £1,065,000 but, by his own admission, he had not incurred a lifetime 
charge so there was no financial loss.
The first point of advice for recommending the LTA protection was with G, and as it 
had recommended taking out the protection, responsibility lay with that firm.
Mr L was always aware - having been told - that the value of his pension would be 
higher than the lifetime allowance, whether protection was available or not; he would 
always have incurred a lifetime allowance charge.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said Berkshire had made mistakes and should not have relied on the report from 
G in relation to Mr Ls eligibility for protection. He didnt think Berkshire was responsible for 
any loss Mr L may have suffered, as that arose from Gs advice to Mr L to transfer his DB 
pension  that was what led to the tax charge arising. But he thought Berkshire should pay 
compensation of £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it had caused to Mr L.
Berkshire did not accept it was at fault but said it would pay the compensation of £500 in 
order to bring things to a conclusion.
Mr L said he accepts that if the initial advice given by G had been correct he wouldnt have 
transferred his pension and so the losses that followed would not have happened. But he 
requested a refund of fees in addition to the compensation of £500.
The investigator considered Mr Ls comments but did not change his view. He said the 
information hed seen indicated the fee had already been refunded through G, so if these 
were now repaid directly to Mr L he would have been repaid twice, which would not be fair. 
But Mr L said:
He paid a fee of £7,000 to Berkshire in December 2020.
He then paid a fee to G of £21,278 which included the £7,000 fee for Berkshire  G 
was in effect acting as Berkshires agent and was to pass on the £7,000.
He questioned this at the time as it meant Berkshire was paid twice and the £7,000 
was refunded.
Even if the full amount of £21,278 is refunded to him by G as a result of that 
complaint, he considers a total of £8,000 in respect of this complaint would be fair  
which would mean a payment of £1,000 rather than £500 to reflect the extent of the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Alternatively, if Berkshire refund the £1,500 fee he paid specifically for the advice on 
his LTA, and an adjustment is made on the calculation in the separate complaint 
against G to reflect this, that would be fair.
The investigator didnt think Berkshire needed to refund any other fees as he said that would 
be taken into account in the redress he had recommended in the complaint against G.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr L engaged Berkshire to advise him on his pension at the point when he was due to take 
his DB pension. He says he wanted advice on where to invest the tax free cash he would be 
taking from his DB pension. But Berkshire suggested he look into transferring the pension  
something he says he hadnt considered until then.
Berkshire wasnt able to advise Mr L on transferring the DB pension so referred him to G for 
advice on that. He has a complaint against G concerning that advice and Im dealing with 
that complaint separately. In this complaint Im only considering the advice Berkshire gave.
When looking at this complaint, Ive taken into account the requirement for Berkshire to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence, and to pay regard to its customers interests and treat 
them fairly. Berkshire also has to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
In the context of the advice Berkshire was providing, that meant taking reasonable care to 
give accurate advice about his LTA and whether Mr L was eligible for protection; and ensure 
any advice about how to invest his tax free cash was suitable. 
Gs report recommended that Mr L transfer his pension, and its advice included 
consideration of the LTA position and an application for protection. When Berkshire provided 
its report in October 2020 it referred to Gs report. Berkshire says it relied on Gs report and 
the fact Mr L had obtained a protection certificate from HMRC. However, Berkshire knew 
Mr L had contributed to his pension after 6 April 2016, which meant he wasnt eligible for 
fixed protection. So I dont think it took reasonable care to ensure it gave appropriate advice.
Mr L himself had doubts about his eligibility and in January 2021 asked about this, saying 
As you are aware I continued making contributions into the money purchase scheme up 
to the point I left in October 2016.
Berkshire replied saying there was an exemption for final salary schemes in payment, as 
long as he did to leave and re-join. Mr L was reassured by this, but it wasnt correct. So there 
was a failing by Berkshire.
However, that doesnt necessarily mean Berkshire is responsible for any loss Mr L may have 
suffered. If Mr L ends up with a higher tax charge, thats ultimately the result of having 
transferring his DB pension  and it was G that advised him on the transfer. So I agree 
Berkshire shouldnt have to compensate him in respect of that.
Berkshire offered to refund the fee relating to advice on the lifetime allowance and in 
February 2021 refunded fees totalling £8,869.56 in relation to advice on his investments. He 
has also had fees refunded by G. I dont consider any further payment needs to be made in 
respect of this. 
I appreciate it was upsetting for Mr L to find he had been misadvised, and it took some time 
for him to establish what had happened. In the circumstances I agree a payment of £500 
would be reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Mr L says a total of £8,000 in respect of this complaint would be fair  which would mean a 
payment of £1,000 rather than £500 to reflect the extent of the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused. Ive thought about this but taking into account what happened, consider the 
sum of £500 is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct BERKSHIRE IFA LIMITED to pay 
compensation of £500 to Mr L.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman