DRN-3269176
The complaint
Mr C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for transactions 
which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
In the evening of 23 November 2020, a £2,000 payment debited Mr Cs Barclays account.  
The next afternoon, a £10,000 payment was made. Both payments went to the same 
person, who was a new payee for the account. Both were made using Mr Cs Barclays 
Mobile Banking (BMB) device, and mobile. These had been registered to Mr Cs account for 
a considerable time, and had been used for other undisputed payments. The IP address, 
which is a type of computer address, was one which had also been used for previous 
undisputed payments.
Later in the afternoon of 24 November, Mr C rang Barclays. He said hed seen the 
transactions when hed logged into his mobile banking app, and he hadnt made them. He 
said his phone screen had gone black at the times of the transactions and he hadnt been 
able to turn the phone on or off. Mr C also reported the transactions to Action Fraud.
On 7 December, Barclays declined Mr Cs fraud claim. When Mr C received the letter he 
complained.
In its final response letter, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that:
- Mr C had told Barclays he still had his debit card, and this would have been needed 
to set up a new payee on the mobile banking app;
- The IP address, and device used for the payments, had been used for previous 
undisputed transactions and day-to-day banking on the mobile banking app;
- There was no opportunity for the passcode used to log into the mobile banking app 
being compromised;
- Mr C had said that hed reported the transactions in time for Barclays to have 
stopped the second debit. Barclays said the second transaction had taken place at 
3:36pm and Mr C had phoned at 5:47pm. Barclays explained that there could be a 
delay between a transaction taking place and appearing on the statement, which was 
why the second transaction had appeared at 7.01pm.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He set out what had happened, and 
said that he felt Barclays could certainly have stopped the second transfer, as hed spotted it 
so quickly on his mobile app. He also said that hed had to ring up several times for an 
update on the investigation. He said that he was very disappointed and upset at the way 
Barclays had treated hm. He didnt regularly transfer large sums of money, so the 
transactions werent consistent with how he used his account. Mr Cc also said that if hed 
transferred the money legitimately to the beneficiary, hed have sent the whole £12,000 in 
one transfer. He believed someone was testing the water by doing a £2,000 transfer the 
night before, and then the £10,000 one the next day.
Mr C said he hadnt made the transactions or given authority for them, and he could only 
think that either his mobile phone, or the Barclays app, had been hacked. He said he was 
the victim of fraud.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said that, looking at the electronic 
records, he didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in not refunding Mr C. That was because 
there was no plausible explanation about how anyone could have accessed Mr Cs phone, 
passed the phones security, and then known the mobile banking app passcode. As this was 
a new payee, it would also have needed Mr Cs debit card  but Mr C had said hed never 
shared any of his details and no-one else had access to his card or phone. The investigator 
checked the electronic records about the timings and confirmed that the second disputed 
payment had taken place just over two hours before Mr C rang Barclays.
Mr C wasnt satisfied. He sent detailed letters including the following points:
- Barclays had never got back to him about contacting the recipient bank to find out 
more about the recipient account holder;
- Barclays hadnt contacted him to verify the transactions. Mr C said that the recipients 
name, and the size of the transactions, should have alerted Barclays;
- he said it was obvious his IP address had been hacked, and said it was also feasible 
that Barclays internet protocols had been hacked;
- Mr C also explained that at 3.30 pm on 24 November hed been trying to log in but 
the screen had gone black. He hadnt been able to log on until 5.45pm when hed 
immediately rung Barclays. Mr C believed Barclays could have put a stop on the 
transactions;
- he said that as Barclays had signed up to the Authorised Push Payment scam code, 
he was entitled to a refund;
- he said it didnt need a debit card to set up a new payee, and he could just enter a 
new persons details;
- as Barclays hadnt entered the second transaction onto his statement until 7.01pm, it 
could have stopped that payment after he phoned over an hour earlier.
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Mr C has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive 
understood all of those and considered all hes said and sent us, but in reaching my decision 
here Ive focused on what I think is vital to my conclusions. Id also point out that this service 
is an informal alternative to the legal process in terms of disputes with financial businesses. 
So I have not pursued all the matters which Mr C has raised  where I dont think thats 
necessary in order to reach a balanced and impartial decision on the crux of the complaint 
here
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in November 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Barclays has provided 
computer records which show that Mr Cs registered device and phone number were used, 
and the correct passcode had been entered. So the disputed payments were authenticated.The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive gone on to consider whether or 
not its more likely than not that Mr C authorised the payments himself.
Mr C told Barclays that he still had his bank card, and hadnt told anyone else his security 
information. He said he hadnt downloaded any software or clicked on any links. He also said 
no-one else had access to the device used to make the payments.
So theres no clear way in which Mr Cs information could have been compromised.
The computer evidence shows that the disputed transactions were:
- carried out using the device and phone registered to Mr Cs account, and which had 
been used for previous genuine transactions;
- carried out using the correct passcode;
- carried out at an IP address which Mr C had previously used for genuine payments.
This evidence means that I consider its very unlikely that any fraudster would have been 
able to carry out the transactions. So I think its more likely than not that Mr C carried out the 
transactions himself. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mr C, but its what the 
evidence leads me to conclude here. This means that Barclays isnt required to refund him.
Looking at some of the additional points Mr C raised:
- Barclays didnt have any obligation to inform Mr C about any discussions it had with 
the recipient bank; 
- In respect of whether Barclays should have contacted Mr C about the unusually large 
transactions, I find that its reasonable that Barclays didnt do so, in the light of the 
evidence that the transaction had been authorised using Mr Cs phone, passcode 
and IP address;
- The transactions went through in full at the times Ive stated above: 7.01pm on 23 
November and 3.36pm on 24 November. These were before Mr C rang Barclays at 
5.47pm on 24 November. The fact that Mr Cs statement shows the later time of 
7.01pm doesnt mean that they could have still be stopped at that point, just that this 
was the time they showed on the statement;
- These transactions werent Authorised Push Payments, so the code doesnt apply 
here;
- Mr C argued that it didnt need a debit card to set up a new payee, and he could just 
enter a new persons details. This conflicts with Barclays response to this service 
about what happened here. I checked with Barclays, which confirmed that making a 
payment to a new payee through BMB needs the genuine BMB device registered to 
a customers BMB profile. The app needs to be accessed through either the BMB 
passcode or Touch ID (face or fingerprint). Here, Mr Cs app was accessed using his 
passcode  and he said he still had his mobile, and hadnt disclosed his BMB 
passcode. So I cant see any way a third party could have accessed these. 
Taking all these factors into account, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman