DRN-4259879
The complaint
The Administrator of Mr Bs estate has complained about a mortgage he held with The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) on a rental property. It is unhappy that:
an application in 2017 to add a relative to the mortgage and property title was rejected by 
TMW;
following Mr Bs death the service received from TMW was not what it should have been, 
including excessive call waiting times, being cut off and a lack of understanding for what 
Mr Bs family were going through, and the CEO ignoring emails;
Mr Bs next of kin being asked to continue to make the monthly mortgage payments, and 
the stress this placed on them;
the significant increase in interest rate that occurred in 2020 and the effect this had on 
the monthly payments;
the appointment of Law of Property Act Receivers to deal with the property, the timing of 
the appointment and the costs associated with its activities being added to the mortgage 
debt; and
the actions of the Receivers during the time they were appointed. 
The Administrator of Mr Bs estate in this case has given authority for two of Mr Bs relatives 
to deal with this complaint on its behalf. However, for simplicity I will refer to the 
Administrator throughout, including during the period before the Letters of Administration 
were issued. 
What happened
Mr B held an interest-only buy-to-let mortgage with TMW at the time of his death in the 
summer of 2019. TMW was notified of his death shortly thereafter and, once it received a 
copy of the death certificate, it placed a concession on the mortgage for 12 months whereby 
the monthly interest payable was held as a separate balance to stop the mortgage falling 
into arrears. It wrote to both the party that had notified it and shortly thereafter the 
Administrator, to provide the mortgage balance for probate purposes and to explain that it 
would provide a 12-month window for the mortgage debt to be repaid.
In 2020 the interest rate product Mr B had attached to the mortgage in 2018 ended. This 
meant the interest rate charged on the outstanding balance of the mortgage reverted to 
TMWs standard variable rate. That was higher than the expired product. As such, the 
amount of interest being charged increased significantly.
The Administrator complained in January 2021 that the monthly payments had increased 
due to the interest rate being applied to the mortgage having changed. 
On 24 February 2021 Letters of Administration were issued by the courts. 
TMW responded to the interest rate complaint in its letter of 29 April 2021. It didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Thereafter contact from the Administrator was limited and no definitive plans for repaying the 
mortgage were provided. By December 2021 the arrears balance was over £12,000 and 
TMW told the Administrator that Law of Property Act Receivers would be appointed if no 
action was taken. This elicited a payment being made to the mortgage to clear the arrears, 
but nothing further happened. 
However, TMW provided further time for the Administrator to take action, and it was not until 
the end of April 2022 that it started the process to appoint Receivers. Receivers were 
eventually appointed on 5 May 2022. The Receivers then took over running the rental 
property.
On 23 September 2022 the Administrator made a further complaint. It repeated the 
complaint about the interest rate increase in 2020. It also complained about the appointment 
of the Receivers and its timing, the actions of the Receivers, various concerns about 
telephone waiting times and how calls were dealt with. It was also confirmed that the estate 
wanted to keep the mortgaged property and so the Administrator asked that the Receivers 
were stopped from taking any further action. There was also a request made for transcripts 
of telephone recordings. The latter request was passed to the relevant team to be dealt with, 
but there was a delay in it happening. 
The mortgage was repaid on 5 October 2022 from funds provided by Mr Bs relatives.
TMW responded to the complaint in a letter of 2 December 2022. It confirmed the concerns 
the Administrator had raised about the Receivers actions had been referred to it to respond 
to. TMW said it couldnt find evidence of it having provided the Administrator with poor 
service. In relation to appointing Receivers, it again didnt think it had done anything wrong.
A further complaint response was sent on 3 February 2023, which set out the 
correspondence that had been sent after TMW had been notified of Mr Bs death, and set 
out the events that had occurred. TMW apologised for the mistake with the call transcript 
requests. In addition, it accepted that it had missed sending a chaser for the Grant of 
Probate in July 2021, and it apologised for this. TMW also apologised for the delay in the 
complaint being responded to. An offer of £200 was made for any distress and 
inconvenience its error and delays caused. 
Further correspondence was exchanged and another complaint response was sent by TMW 
on 14 February 2023. It apologised if the Administrator felt let down by the service that had 
been provided. It also confirmed that its CEO got high volumes of correspondence and so 
there was a team to respond on her behalf  however, shes said she did read the email the 
Administrator had sent. TMW confirmed it had nothing further to add on the complaint points 
already addressed.
The complaint was referred to this service on 9 March 2023.
When we informed TMW that the complaint had been referred to us, it confirmed that it could 
find no record of Mr B having asked to add a third party to the mortgage at any point from 
2015 onward. It confirmed that when the fixed rate ended in 2020, it was not possible to add 
a new interest rate product to the mortgage. The LPA Receiver was appointed because of 
the arrears on the account.
One of our Investigators explained to the Administrator that we were not able to investigate 
the actions of the Receivers as that business didnt fall within our remit. In addition, he also 
confirmed that we could only consider the complaint made on behalf of the estate, and any 
personal grievances Mr Bs family members had regarding TMW were not something we 
could compensate them for. The Investigator also explained that as the complaint about the addition of another party to the mortgage had not been made to TMW in the first instance, it 
would need to be given the opportunity to consider it before we became involved. We offered 
to set up a new complaint to deal with that matter, if the Administrator wanted to pursue that 
aspect of the complaint. No response was received to this question.
The Investigator went on to explain that we were unable to consider the complaint about the 
interest rate increasing in 2020, as it had been referred to us too late. In relation to the other 
issues raised, he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
The Administrator didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and was unhappy that parts of 
the complaint had not been addressed, such as the CEO having ignored emails, the 
incorrect font in a letter and the appalling service it received. It also said that TMW didnt act 
in the best interest of Mr Bs widow, who was tasked with paying off a huge debt that she 
couldnt afford without selling the property. It highlighted that the Covid-19 pandemic meant 
that selling properties took longer than expected and the estate had done the best it could. It 
said that people were not purchasing homes and so no sale could be undertaken  TMW 
should have understood this. It was again highlighted that the mortgage payments increased 
significantly in 2020 without justification. It suggested that any decision made would always 
be in favour of financial institutions and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
The Investigator responded to the points the Administrator made, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. As such, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I issued a decision on 22 November 2023 in which I set out our jurisdiction in relation to the 
different aspects of the complaint. I concluded the following points were not ones that fell 
within our remit:
an application in 2017 to add a relative to the mortgage and property title was rejected by TMW;
the significant increase in interest rate that occurred in 2020 and the effect this had on his next 
of kin; and
the actions of the Receivers during the time they were appointed. 
I confirmed that I would then review the remaining complaint points, which I now have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would like to assure the Administrator 
that I have read and considered everything we have been told about what happened and the 
background situation. I trust it wont take it as a discourtesy that I have condensed this 
complaint in the way that I have. Although I have read and considered the whole file I will 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and we 
look at things independently without taking sides.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.I would also reiterate what the Investigator explained regarding compensating the individuals 
acting on behalf of the Administrator and Mr Bs family. While Mr Bs relatives have chosen 
to act on behalf of the Administrator of Mr Bs estate, they are bringing the complaint on the 
estates behalf, not their own and we cant consider any complaint they as individuals have 
on their own behalf or any other member of Mr Bs family. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to them, but that is the remit of this service. 
Following Mr Bs death TMW immediately gave his estate a 12-month window in which to 
repay the mortgage. I note the Administrator has said TMW pressured Mr Bs family to make 
the monthly payments, but I am not persuaded this was the case. It gave the option to do so, 
and thereby prevent the debt secured against the property increasing, but it did not and 
could not make Mr Bs relatives pay the monthly interest that continued to be due. This is 
supported by the concession placed on the mortgage during the 12-month repayment 
window, which meant that if the estate couldnt make the monthly payments the account 
wouldnt go into arrears and no legal action would be taken. 
The Administrator has recently said that this was not enough time for the property to be sold, 
especially in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. While that event would have made selling the 
property more difficult, I dont think it affected Mr Bs estate in the way implied. What 
correspondence was received from the estate made it clear that it didnt intent to make any 
decisions about the mortgaged property until after Letters of Administration were issued, 
which didnt happen until 18 months after Mr Bs death. Furthermore, what has been said to 
this service would indicate that there was no intention of the property being sold in order to 
pay the mortgage off. 
Once Letters of Administration were issued, given the time that had already elapsed since 
Mr Bs death, TMW could reasonably have expected the mortgage would be dealt with as a 
priority. However, by the end of 2021, more than two years after Mr Bs death, there were 
still no definitive plans in place to repay the mortgage within a defined period. There was 
also a lack of material communication from the Administrator, as there had been throughout. 
While we expect a lender to understand that things dont always go to plan with an estate 
and show some forbearance in such situation, I consider TMW did that. It was not until 
almost ten months after the Letters of Administration, and over two years after Mr Bs death, 
that TMW suggested to the Administrator that it would appoint Receivers if the mortgage 
was not repaid. While that elicited a payment to clear the arrears on the account, no further 
substantive action was taken, and the arrears started to build again. 
It was more than a further five months before the Receivers were appointed and the situation 
regarding the repayment of the mortgage hadnt changed  there was still no sign of it 
happening. I note what Mr Bs family members have said about the timing of the 
appointment, but TMW couldnt have known the two events would coincide. I dont consider 
it was unreasonable for TMW to appoint Receivers in the circumstances and as such, the 
costs associated with its activities were rightly added to the amount owed, as was allowed 
for under the mortgage terms and conditions.
TMW has accepted the service it provided in chasing the Administrator for the paperwork 
giving it authority to represent the estate was not what it should have been on one occasion. 
It has offered £200 compensation for this omission. If it had not offered that sum, I would not 
be recommending an award, especially in light of the fact that the Administrator provides 
professional executor/administration services and would have been very aware of the need 
to provide that documentation. 
The Administrator has also complained that the CEO of TMW didnt personally respond to 
emails addressed to them. As TMW stated, the correspondence was responded to, just not 
by the individual it was addressed to. It is common that when a complaint is made to someone senior in an organisation such as TMW, that complaint is dealt with by a specialist 
team or department. As the complaint was dealt with, I cant find TMW did anything wrong. 
Nor am I persuaded that there was a lack of service provided to the Administrator more 
generally. There will always be times when the service provided could have been better, due 
to high demand for services, and I am sure there were times when individuals spent time in 
telephone queues that they would have preferred not to. As I say, this is not unusual at busy 
times for lenders, and this was especially the case during the Covid-19 pandemic. There will 
also sometimes be problems with calls, including them being disconnected, although often 
this is nothing to do with the lenders systems, as most mobile phone providers have limits 
on the length of calls. 
I know that the individuals representing the Administrator in this complaint will be 
disappointed with my conclusions. However, I am satisfied that TMW allowed a considerable 
amount of time for the Administrator to make arrangements to repay the mortgage before 
taking action to move the situation forward. Nor do I consider the service provided was such 
that further compensation is due to the estate.
My final decision
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay the estate of Mr B £200 to 
settle the complaint and I am satisfied this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As such, my 
final decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should pay £200 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman