DRN-3973192
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society should have allowed them the 
opportunity of a six-week period to accept a new mortgage product until the amount they had 
to pay on the early repayment charge (ERC) dropped after 1 August 2022.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H have a mortgage with Nationwide and a fixed rate mortgage product. On 24 
June 2022, they had an appointment with a Nationwide mortgage adviser about switching 
their mortgage product. The advisor told them that they would have to accept the mortgage 
offer and pay the ERC on that date to take advantage of the interest rate of 2.99% available 
on that date. The ERC on Mr H and Mrs Hs mortgage product dropped from 1.5% of the 
mortgage balance to 0.75% after 1 August and so Mr H and Mrs H preferred to wait until that 
happened. On 2 August they had a meeting with the same adviser and agreed the rate then 
available of 3.69%. Mr H and Mrs H got a mortgage offer at that meeting which said that the 
offer remained valid for acceptance until 16 September. Mr H and Mrs H say that this 
contradicts what they were told which is that the offer had to be accepted on the 2 August. 
Further if they had this period to accept the offer, they should have been told this on 24 June 
and they could have delayed accepting the offer until after 1 August and had the benefit of 
the lower interest rate available on 24 June and lower ERC available after 1 August.
Nationwide said that its a regulatory requirement that the offer expiry date is included in the 
letter but didnt consider it had done anything wrong other than the difficulties Mr H and Mrs 
H had trying to log their complaint for which it offered compensation of £25. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Although she agreed that the 
documentation was confusing, as Nationwide had made it clear that the offer was only valid 
for the 2 August and Mr H and Mrs H accepted that offer, she didnt require Nationwide to do 
anything further. Mr H and Mrs H disagree and are concerned at the contradiction between 
what they were told about the time allowed for acceptance of the offer in their conversation 
and what appears in the written mortgage offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs H were looking at what Nationwide terms an in deal switch. Thats a switch 
between mortgage products whilst the existing deal is still current. According to Nationwides 
policy with an in-deal switch, any ERC payable, the application, offer and acceptance are all 
made on the same day as part of the application. It says there is no option to wait and 
accept the offer at a later date.
Its not disputed that the mortgage adviser tells Mr H and Mrs H what Nationwides policy is 
which is that to get the interest rate on offer on a particular day, the offer will have to be 
verbally accepted on that day and if an ERC is payable it will be the ERC that applies on that 
day. It seems in June Mr H and Mrs H didnt want to go ahead with accepting these terms - 
because of the higher ERC - but in August they were content to do. The confusion is caused 
by the reference to a six-week (or thereabouts) acceptance period referred to in the 
mortgage offer that goes out in August. It seems to me that the written mortgage offer is in 
fact a summary of what has verbally been agreed put in written form rather than an offer 
going out awaiting acceptance in the future. Although a six-week acceptance period appears 
in the mortgage offer, that is really redundant in this transaction. The terms of the offer have 
already been accepted by Mr H and Mrs H, so the six-week acceptance period is irrelevant 
to them. If Mr H and Mrs H hadnt accepted the mortgage offer as was the case in June, no 
mortgage offer would have issued as it had to be accepted on the same day and no 
extended acceptance period would be available. 
I have to consider the fairness of all this. Mr H and Mrs H had a mortgage product with 
Nationwide and if they wished to change it, Nationwide said it would agree the change if Mr 
H and Mrs H accepted certain conditions. These were made clear to Mr H and Mrs H and 
meant that they could have the interest rate that applied on that day if they paid the ERC that 
applied on that day. I believe that Mr H and Mrs H knew and those conditions and did not 
want to accept them in June but were happy to do so in August. 
Mr H and Mrs H would have liked a mortgage offer in June with a six-week acceptance 
period, but Nationwide would never have issued a written mortgage offer in June without the 
offer already being accepted.  Nationwides policy with these in-deal switches appears to be 
that to get the deal with the low interest rate the customer has to agree it on the day. I 
assume thats a consequence of the volatility in interest rates. I see nothing wrong with that 
as long as the customer is aware of it and Mr H and Mrs H clearly were. Although an 
extended acceptance period is referred to in the mortgage offer, as the written offer only 
goes out if the offer has already been accepted - in fact it is more a record of what has been 
agreed - it does not impact Mr H and Mrs H as they had already accepted the offer. So, I 
dont consider that Mr H and Mrs H have been treated unfairly and I dont uphold his 
complaint.    
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman