DRN-3715989
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd, (AIE) declined a claim she made on
her motor insurance policy.
References to AIE include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss D took out an AIE car insurance policy with a broker and through a price comparison
site. The policy was later renewed over the phone. Miss D tried to make a claim when she
was involved in an accident.
AIE said she hadnt stated the car would be used for commuting purposes when she took
out the policy. It said Miss D was on her way to work when the incident happened, and this
was outside the scope of the cover, so it declined her claim. Miss D didnt agree and brought
her complaint to us. She said she had driven to town to run errands and planned to leave her
car at her sisters home before making her way to work.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss D had confirmed she
wasnt working when contacted after taking out the policy. He accepted her circumstances
had changed and thought she had been travelling to work at the time, but he didnt think
Miss D had made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy. He didnt think it was
fair AIE declined the claim. Our investigator said based on the terms of the policy, it should
settle the claim proportionately and pay 8% interest on the settlement figure.
AIE doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision for the
following reasons:
It thinks its clear the consumer knew before making the journey that she wasnt 
covered to do so.
It says use of the vehicle dictates the level of cover thats provided to a customer and 
is shown on all relevant documentation.
It doesnt think that this is a case of misrepresentation.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2022 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
it. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss D, but Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation
AIE doesnt think the rules regarding misrepresentation as set out in The Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are applicable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whether the consumer has made a misrepresentation and the relevance
of CIDRA, we must consider what questions were asked and whether they asked for
material facts or not. I note at inception the question asked, via the comparison site, was
what the car was used for, and at renewal the documentation states the use of the car as
social, domestic and pleasure.
But I dont think it makes a difference here, this is because even if CIDRA were applicable, I
dont find Miss D misrepresented information when the policy was taken out. CIDRA requires
a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Miss D has confirmed
she wasnt working when she renewed her policy, so I dont think Miss D had a need for
commuting cover at the time. I also think it would be difficult to anticipate that she might
need to drive if or when she started a job. So, on balance, I think its unlikely Miss D had
plans to use her car to commute when the policy renewed.
Declined claim
The terms of the policy exclude any claims while the insured vehicle is being driven or used
outside the circumstances defined in your motor insurance certificate Its not disputed that
Miss Ds policy didnt include cover for accidents while commuting to work. Miss D told us
she was driving to town to carry out several tasks. And says she had then intended to leave
her car at her sisters home and make her way to work. So, I must consider what the main
reason was for Miss Ds journey at the time.
I understand the accident occurred on Miss Ds way into the city centre, and I accept Miss D
planned to carry out errands before making her way to work, but Im not persuaded this was
the main purpose for her travel. I say this because, its clear her final destination was her
place of work. And, during the claims telephone call she states she was driving to work and
later explained that the reason she had driven was because she wanted to be closer to work,
due to the poor weather conditions at the time. Therefore, I find the main reason Miss D was
travelling was to get to work.
I accept Miss D may not have planned to drive the car all the way to work that day. AIE said,
even if she drove part of the way and walked the remainder of the journey, the intention of
her travel would still be commuting, and I think what its said is reasonable.
Furthermore, during the telephone call Miss D confirms she was aware that the policy did not
include commuting to work. She explains to the agent that the car was not usually used for
commuting. But Miss D had also stated that, as a result of the accident, she wouldnt be able
to drive her car to work. So, I think its likely Miss D had been using the car to get to work.
As the policy didnt provide commuting cover, I think AIEs decision to decline the claim was
fair and reasonable. As such, I dont think it needs to do anything differently.
Both Miss D and AIE now have until the due date set out above to send in any further
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
Ms D didnt accept my provisional decision for the following reasons: She says the decision didnt mentioned the weather conditions at the time of the 
accident or the premature braking by the other driver, which Miss D says lead her to 
skid into the back of their car. 
Miss D doesnt think the journey to town should have been identified as part of her 
commute to work. She says it was her choice to use her car for personal matters 
prior to work, and it wasnt used to commute to work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss D has said in response to my provisional decision and Im not 
minded to change the decision I reached. I dont think Miss D has provided any new 
information I havent already considered, nevertheless Ill address her points.  
Firstly, Id like to assure Miss D that Ive taken all the information she provided into 
consideration. Im sorry to hear of what happened and I understand car accidents can be 
upsetting. I also appreciate these have been challenging time for her, but I must put side my 
feelings of empathy and consider her complaint impartially. 
I appreciate Miss D says the car was not being used for anything other than for personal 
errands. Having listened to her telephone calls with AIE, Miss D states she was travelling to 
work. She then explained that she wanted to drive closer to work because of the bad 
weather. Miss D doesnt say she was driving to town to run errands until later on. While I 
accept she may have planned to run errands while in town, I dont think it means she wasnt 
on her way to work. What I must consider is the main purpose of her journey, and even 
though she didnt plan to drive all the way, Im more persuaded the intention of her travels 
was ultimately to get to work. 
I dont think the weather conditions, how the accident happened, or who was responsible for 
it means AIE need to pay the claim. This is because, the policy didnt cover Miss D for loss 
or damage incurred while commuting. As such, I think AIEs decision to decline the claim 
was fair and reasonable. So, I wont tell it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman