DRN-3493467
The complaint
Miss C and Mr P complain through their representative that Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) lent them money on high cost loans that they were 
unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Miss C and Mr P with the following loans:
Date taken Amount Term Date repaid
Loan 1 03/05/2013 £4,000* 34 months 07/12/2014
Loan 2 18/12/2014 £8,000* 48 months 23/09/2016
Loan 3 21/10/2016 £12,500 48 months 24/04/2018
*Miss C and Mr P also paid for an additional insurance premium in respect of these loans. I 
havent included those figures as they dont form part of this decision. 
Miss C and Mr P said they struggled to repay the loans and were left with very little spare 
income to afford the loan repayments. They ended up borrowing more to repay each loan 
which was rolled over into the next loan. Miss C and Mr Ps representatives have provided 
copy bank statements for the relevant periods.
Everyday said that for each loan it carried out a full assessment, which included doing credit 
checks on both applicants, verifying their income, and reviewing two months bank 
statements for each of Miss C and Mr Ps main accounts. It carried out an assessment of 
their outgoings using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It assessed that the loans 
were affordable. 
Our adjudicator said the results of the checks showed that the payments in respect of all the 
loans represented a significant proportion of Miss Cs and Mr Ps income. So she thought it 
was unlikely Miss C and Mr P wouldve been able to sustainably meet their repayments for 
these loans. She proposed that Everyday refund the interest and charges on all three loans.
Everyday accepted our adjudicators view concerning loan 3. However with regard to loan 1 
it said that Miss C and Mr P had a disposable income left after paying the loan instalments, 
of over £316 and for loan 2, over £1,004. For that reason it believed they were able to afford 
the repayments for both loans without difficulty.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
and Mr P would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C and Mr P would have been able to do 
so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss C and Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss C and Mr P undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means they should have been able to 
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment they had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on their financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C and Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). Here the amounts of the loans and the periods of repayment were substantial. So Everyday 
should have carried a thorough assessment of both Miss Cs and Mr Ps financial 
circumstances.
loan 1
This loan was for the purchase of a car. However Miss C and Mr P already had considerable 
credit commitments, and had a deferred loan and two credit cards both near their limits. 
They already had a substantial Hire Purchase loan. By my calculation, with this loan 
instalments, these commitments amounted to about 32% of their joint income. This was in 
my view quite high and a could only be justified if they had sufficient disposable income to 
easily afford the repayments of the new loan.
Whilst Everyday used ONS data to calculate Miss C and Mr Ps outgoings, it did obtain bank 
statements from Miss C and Mr P. And I think its fair to look at the payments made from 
Miss C and Mr Ps accounts to look at a realistic figure for outgoings. By my calculations 
these set out that their income, before applying the new loan payment, was just enough to 
cover their outgoings. And, as the new loan didnt include consolidation of any old debts, I 
dont think, bearing in mind the significant payment needed for this loan, that it was 
affordable. 
So, whilst I think Everyday carried out proportionate affordability checks, those checks 
should have led Everyday to the conclusion that the loan was unaffordable. So, I dont think 
Everyday made a fair lending decision.
loan 2
This loan was in part for consolidation of existing loans, and part for spending for Christmas. 
Miss C and Mr P still had the credit commitments from before. Its not possible to tell from 
the credit report whether they had missed any payments on their loans and credit cards. The 
credit card debts were however higher than before (although near to, but not over the limit). 
Miss C and Mr P were also using a third credit card which was near its limit. And they had 
taken out a couple of home credit loans. Also at the time of the application for loan 1, Mr Ps 
bank account was £25 overdrawn. The amount required to pay off his overdraft at the time of 
this loan was over £1,350.
Everydays disposable income assessment said that by consolidating the loans Miss C and 
Mr P would save about £408 a month. However referring to the audit and the loan disposal 
figures, I calculate this to be more like £132, this may be because of the old loan being paid 
off. Still though, with the new loan Miss C and Mr Ps credit commitments had gone up to 
around 34% of their assessed income a month.
To calculate their disposable income Everyday again used ONS data. It calculated that 
Miss C and Mr P would have a disposable income of around £1,008 a month. If I take 
account of the difference in the amounts they would have by loan consolidation and the 
spending pattern seen in their bank statements, this figure would be more like £325. This 
nevertheless might mean they could afford the new loan instalments, but we dont just look 
at the pounds and pence affordability. There was a pattern here of Miss C and Mr P getting 
into deeper debt since the first loan. Yet after consolidating the loans they would still have 
received over £4,000 which could have been used to pay off other debts.
So I think that because of the information Everyday had from their first loan application and 
what that revealed with the new checks, Miss C and Mr P werent in a position to afford this 
loan either. Again I think Everyday carried out proportionate affordability checks, but those 
checks should have led Everyday to the conclusion that the loan was unaffordable. So, I dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
loan 3
Everyday has accepted our adjudicators view in respect of this loan, so I wont make any 
further comment. I will direct accordingly in my decision below.
Putting things right
Miss C and Mr P have had the capital sums for all three loans and its fair that they repay 
those. So I propose, in respect of those loans, Everyday should do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans.
Treat any payments made by Miss C and Mr P as payments towards the capital 
amounts.
If Miss C and Mr P have paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to them 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss C and Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss C and Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if they ask for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaints and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman