DRN-3603915
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his bank account and loaded a negative fraud 
marker against him. Hed like the marker removed and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr N had an account with Monzo. 
On 13 February 2021 Mr N received a payment of £20 into his account 
Monzo received a fraud report from a third party bank notifying them the payment was 
received as part of a scam. They made the decision to close Mr Ns bank account and load a 
fraud marker for misuse of facility against his name. 
Mr N complained about the account closure and on reviewing their actions Monzo decided to 
re-open his account, and pay £60 compensation. 
After receiving a further fraud report on 31 July 2021 Monzo decided to close Mr Ns 
account.
Mr N complained to Monzo about the closure of his account and the balance. He also 
thought theyd loaded a negative fraud marker against his name.
On 23 August 2021 Mr Ns funds were returned to him. 
Monzo looked into Mr Ns complaint. Monzo paid Mr N £25 for the delay in looking at his 
complaint, but concluded theyd acted fairly in closing his account and loading the negative 
fraud marker. 
Mr N didnt accept Monzos response so brought his complaint to our service. He explained 
that he was unable to open a bank account or get paid and he was concerned about the 
negative impact on his credit rating. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. He asked Mr N 
about the £20 he received on 13 February 2021. Mr N explained that he listed a computer 
console for online sale, but after receiving payment he decided not to sell the item. Mr N 
advised that he repaid the buyer on 15 February 2021. 
After reviewing the evidence our investigator thought that Monzo met the burden of proof to 
load a fraud marker. And theyd acted fairly in closing his account.  
Mr N responded to ask if he provided evidence the money was repaid would the investigator 
reconsider the outcome. Mr N then provided evidence which he advised showed hed repaid 
the buyer on 15 February 2021. However, our investigator didnt change their opinion  so 
its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator outlined the standard required to load a fraud marker in their view. In 
summary Monzo need to show that Mr N was complicit in receiving fraudulent funds into his 
account. 
Firstly Ive considered if Mr N received fraudulent funds into his account. Ive seen a fraud 
report Monzo received in February 2021 regarding a credit of £20 on 13 February 2021. So, 
Im satisfied Monzo have met this expectation. 
Ive moved on to consider whether the evidence shows Mr N was complicit in receiving the 
fraudulent funds. I understand hell be disappointed in my conclusion but Im satisfied Mr N 
was likely complicit in the fraud. I say this because:
Mr Ns advised he listed his computer console online, however hes been unable to 
provide evidence to show this. 
Mr N explained he repaid the buyer on 15 February 2021. And hes provided a 
screenshot from his account with a third party payment processor, Ill call P, which he 
advises shows this. Ive reviewed the evidence, and contacted P, and having done so 
Im satisfied it doesnt show Mr N refunded the buyer as he advised. 
It follows, as Im satisfied Mr N was complicit in the fraud, I think Monzo met the terms and 
conditions of his account  and acted fairly  in closing his account in July 2021. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman