DRN-3323170
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Standard Life Assurance Limited (SA) exercised its discretion to
distribute death benefits following the death of her brother, Mr G.
What happened
Mrs G first complained to this service in 2020 about the way SA had exercised its discretion
to distribute money following the death of her brother. An earlier decision by another
Ombudsman directed SA to exercise its discretion again. This was because SA had not
given due weight to an expression of wish form and had assumed Mr Gs former wife was
financially dependent on him rather than mutually dependent. Having done so, SA reached
the same decision as it did when it first exercised its discretion. Mrs G didnt think this was
reasonable in the light of the further information that had been considered. She said the
decision couldnt be a fresh independent re-exercise as the decision was the same as the 
one reached on the first occasion based on incorrect documentation.
She said the expression of wish was an up to date one by someone in sound mind and
aware they were terminally ill and going through a process of making sure his wishes were
up to date. She couldnt understand why SA chose to ignore it. If, when it had assumed the
expression of wishes wasnt valid, it decided to distribute in one way how could it then reach
the same conclusion when it treated the expression of wishes as valid and having concluded
that Mr Gs estranged wife was not financially dependent as it had initially thought.
SA said it was satisfied that the fresh consideration made on 26 June 2020 addressed the
concerns raised by the first Ombudsman decision made on 8 April 2020. It had correctly
documented the expression of wish form and the correct weight had been placed on that
information in the process of weighing up all the relevant evidence. It had clarified the
relationship between Mr G and his wife as being one of mutual dependency and a fuller
rationale for the distribution including the proportional split had been documented. It said the
process was one of weighing up all relevant evidence and ignoring irrelevant factors. It was
not trying to make any moral judgment about the quality of relationship between Mr G, and
his family. It felt its decision was fair and reasonable in relation to all the relevant information 
it had gathered and documented. As the death benefits didnt fall into the estate it was not 
under any obligation to disclose these to Mrs G.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that another Ombudsman made a decision 
on the first exercise of discretion by SA. He said that:-
It was not his role to decide if SA made a correct decision nor to replace its decision
with his.
SA wasnt obliged to follow the expression of wish form.
SA had discretion to decide who to pay and in what proportion
The Ombudsman needed to decide if SA had exercised that discretion properly,
applied due diligence and acted reasonably in reaching its decision.
He thought the first decision was flawed because it had not at first treated the
expression of wish form as valid, although it had been taken it into account. He 
thought the weight attached to the expression of wish must have been affected by 
the belief it wasnt valid. Further SA had assumed Mr Gs wife was financially 
dependent but it did not seem this had been fully explored.
There was no reasoning given as to the distribution proposed so the Ombudsman
could not safely conclude proper consideration had been given to the issue.
The Ombudsman directed that SA carry out a fresh consideration of the distribution
of these benefits.
I had been provided with a copy of the provisions for the pension plan in question which set 
out the discretion re payment of death benefits. These said
well decide who should receive a lump sum death benefit, and how much, from the list of
beneficiaries described in the rules. But you can help us make this decision by telling us in
writing who youd like us to pay the lump sum death benefit to. This can include the trustees 
of any trust that youve set up. We will take your views into account but we are not obliged to 
follow them.
The circumstances in which the lump sum was to be paid was determined by the scheme 
rules. In this case it was under a discretionary trust arrangement. The scheme rules defined 
the class of persons who were eligible to benefit from the exercise of the trustees discretion.
The rules set out the discretion in 8.1, this provided for a payment:-
(1) In accordance with any specific provision regarding payment of such sums under the
contract(s) applying to the Arrangements in question; or
(2) If (1) is not applicable and at the time of the Members death the Scheme
Administrator is satisfied that the Member has directed the Scheme Administrator to
pay any death benefit to a valid trust under which no beneficial interest in that benefit
can be payable to the Member, the Members estate or the Members legal personal
representative to the trustees of the trust; or
(3) If (1) or (2) are not applicable at the discretion of the Scheme Administrator, to or for
the benefit of any one or more of the following in such proportions as the Scheme
Administrator decides:
(a) any person, charity, association, club, society, or other body (including
trustees of any trust whether discretionary or otherwise) whose name the
Member has notified to the Scheme Administrator prior to the date of the
Members death. 
(b) The Members Dependants.
(c) The parents and grandparents of the Member or the Members surviving
spouse of civil partner and any children and remoter issue of any of them.(d) Any person, charity, association, club, society, or other body (including
trustees of any trust whether discretionary or otherwise) entitled under the
Members will to any interest in the Members estate
(e) The Members legal personal representatives
I had seen the fresh record of decision of exercise of discretion. The fresh exercise referred 
to the expression of wish as valid and noted that Mr Gs wife was mutually financially 
dependent.
As the first Ombudsman in this case said, it was not for me to substitute my decision for that
made by SA. However I could consider whether there was evidence it had acted properly 
and had not taken into account, irrelevant, irrational or improper factors in reaching its 
decision.
I set out an extract of the record of decision  following review dated 22 June 2020 reasons 
given for the decision that SA made to distribute the lump sum death benefit.
It said the following:-
While Mr G's family (father, mother & sister) have made representations that the death
benefit should be paid out in accordance with his wishes, Mrs G, through her solicitors, has
submitted a claim for the death benefits to be paid in full to her, stating:
Although their client and the deceased were separated, they remained legally married and
maintained their jointly owned assets and shared their finances together, to the extent that 
their client was financially dependent on the deceased.
After their separation, the deceased and their client remained very close, to the extent that
each of them helped each other through their respective illnesses.
The solicitors were instructed that it was the deceaseds intention that their client is
appropriately provided for and is financially secure. In order to facilitate the deceaseds
intentions, the benefit from this policy ought to be paid to their client.
The Will was executed after the deceased and their client separated and this demonstrates
that their client is the majority beneficiary and indeed the residuary beneficiary to the
deceaseds Estate. 
After careful consideration of all the information presented to us by all parties we have
decided that there are significant justifications made by Mrs G for the Scheme Administrator
to award her a larger share of her late husbands death benefit.
I thought the reasoning set out reflected irrational and unreasonable decision making relying 
on irrelevant information for the following reasons:-
The record of decision stated that the solicitors (this appears to be those for Mrs G, 
the estranged wife)) were instructed that it was the deceaseds intention, the benefit 
from this policy ought to be paid to their client.
This view is in direct conflict with the proposed distribution set out by Mr G in his expression
of wish form regarding his pension benefits on death. The solicitors for Mr Gs wife were not
the same as those that acted for Mr G and acted to draft the will. As the solicitor referred to,
did not act for Mr G, it wasnt possible for it to be instructed as to his intention or wishes and
nor would it have any authority to communicate those intentions or wishes. It was thereforeirrational and unreasonable to rely on that reported instruction as a reflection of Mr Gs
wishes.
In relying on this information SA had taken into account information that was irrelevant and 
therefore it acted irrationally and/or unreasonably and/or improperly.
Further SA says it noted that the will was executed after the deceased was separated
from his wife and used this as supporting evidence that he wished his wife to be the
majority beneficiary.
However the will was prepared by Mr Gs solicitors and signed and dated 29 May 2015. The
expression of wish form was also dated around this time. It was signed and dated 24 April
2015 and I understood it was executed after Mr G separated from his wife.
It seemed irrational and/or unreasonable to assume that the will executed at broadly the 
same time as the expression of wish reflected Mr Gs intention to provide for his wife. (This 
was especially given that pension benefits would not typically fall within his estate and be
distributed under the terms of the will). But the expression of wish form, suggested a
different distribution and was specific to his pension benefits was not mentioned as a valid
indication of his wishes regarding the lump sum death benefits.
It did not therefore seem that SA had exercised its discretion properly.
I understood the benefits had been paid out by SA. Notwithstanding that I proposed to direct
SA to re-exercise its discretion.
I suggested it would be helpful and avoid further delay if SA re-exercised it discretion before 
I issued any final decision.
SA made various comments but then re-exercised its discretion and issued a fresh record of 
decision dated 3 March 2022 with respect to a re-exercise of its discretion on 28 February 
2022. It did not change the proposed proportions in which the lump sum was to be 
distributed between the beneficiaries. 
It said that 
 after careful consideration of all the information presented to us by all parties we have 
decided to exercise our discretion in a manner that does not align with the EOW. This is 
because we have decided to allocate a greater share of the proceeds to (Mrs G  his 
estranged wife) based on the evidence of mutual dependency between Mr and Mrs G 
presented to us  which we consider (in our discretion) to be significant enough for the 
Scheme Administrator to award (Mrs G estranged wife) a larger share of her late husbands 
death benefit.
Mrs G (Mr Gs sister) was supplied with a copy of the fresh decision and given the 
opportunity to comment. 
Mrs G submitted further comments and said that until SA properly and professionally 
perform what the Ombudsman has required of them then this case cannot be closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand that the distribution by SA is understandably upsetting for Mrs G and her family. 
However I am not able to direct SA to reach a particular decision or distribution.
I have carefully considered the points raised by Mrs G.
I think the record of decision shows that SA are now accepting the expression of wishes 
(EOW) as valid but stating their reason for their decision is mutual financial dependence. 
They are no longer using the will as the reason for the distribution and ignoring the EOW, as 
was the case under the previous record of decision.
SA have opted not to follow the EOW and are not required to do so. However they must 
exercise their discretion in accordance with the provisions of the scheme documents. 
It is clear Mrs G (the estranged wife) was a dependant by virtue of being the legal spouse 
because she falls within the relevant sections of the Finance Act 2004 whether or not she 
was financially dependent.
The Finance Act definition does not make her a financial dependent. Further Mrs G didnt 
need to be financially or mutually dependant to benefit. 
It seems that SA is applying financial dependency in whatever form to differentiate between 
beneficiaries and to support its decision to distribute in the way it has. I dont think that is 
unreasonable. Based on the record of decision, I can see that documentary evidence was 
provided to evidence the financial relationship. I think that is reasonable and it isnt for this 
service to second guess SAs assessment of that evidence nor to direct how each 
beneficiary should submit evidence or in what form. 
This complaint is about the SA pension scheme so it is not possible to draw conclusions 
from the decision made by Mr Gs employer on the distribution of the death in service benefit 
where different legal provisions will have been applied. 
It is also clear from the record of decision that SA was aware that Mr and Mrs G were 
estranged at the date of Mr Gs, as it clearly states this.
My provisional decision concluded there was evidence of irrationality etc due to two specific 
issues. Those relating to using the will as an indication of Mr Gs intent while disregarding 
the EOW and secondly considering that the solicitors for Mr G could communicate Mr Gs 
intent. The updated record of decision no longer relies on those issues and SA confirmed it 
understood the solicitors in question did not act for Mr G. 
I did not have an expectation as to the exact outcome of the re-exercise of discretion. This 
service cannot direct SA to reach a particular conclusion. It is therefore possible for it to re-
exercise its discretion and reach the same proposed distribution as on earlier occasion. 
I have reviewed the fresh record of decision. Based on the new record of decision I dont 
have reasonable grounds to conclude that SA has not properly exercised its discretion even 
though it has reached the same decision regarding distribution as it did in its previous 
decisions. 
Putting things right
Based on the new record of decision I dont have reasonable grounds to conclude that SA 
has not properly exercised its discretion.My final decision
I cannot reasonably conclude that SA has acted improperly in the exercise of its 
discretionary power to distribute the lump sum death benefit following Mr Gs death.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman