DRN-2385164
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Openwork Limited failed to tell her that her Total and Permanent Disability 
(TPD) benefit had been declined when she applied for a life and critical Illness policy. 
Mrs M says Openwork were aware she had suffered an injury at the time of the application. 
And when she went to claim for TPD with her insurer it was declined. She added that if she 
had been made aware there wasnt cover for TPD, she wouldnt have proceeded with the 
policy. 
Mrs M applied for the policy through a representative of Openwork. But for ease, Ill refer to 
Openwork throughout the decision. 
What happened
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said he was satisfied it was more 
likely than not Openwork did make Mrs M aware in 2017 that the TPD benefit of her policy 
had been declined. He felt that although Openwork didnt keep a record of the call where it 
says Mrs M was informed about this, it was more likely than not a conversation did take 
place. 
Our investigator said the insurer confirmed it also sent documents to Mrs M and Openwork 
in 2017 which said the TPD benefit hadnt been included in her cover. He added that Mrs M 
had applied for TPD cover with Openwork in 2012 which was accepted with an exclusion, 
and again in 2014 where it was declined. So, he felt it was reasonable for Mrs M to believe 
there was likely going to be an issue with her getting TPD cover following an operation she 
had in March 2017. 
Mrs M didnt accept what our investigator said and has asked for an Ombudsman review. 
She said she would expect her advisor at Openwork to keep a full record of telephone 
records of what she was told and when. She added that she was unaware she was classed 
as a risk and she was never informed that her TPD benefit had been declined.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Openwork has said it told Mrs M over the phone that the TPD benefit had been declined and 
the policy was then agreed. Unfortunately, it doesnt have a copy of the call recording. Mrs M 
has said she has no recollection of receiving a call from Openwork about her TPD benefit 
being declined. And she is unhappy that Openwork doesnt have a log of the call. 
Openwork should take all reasonable steps to record telephone conversations, but because 
a call recording doesnt exist, I need to make a decision on whether Mrs M was made 
reasonably aware  on balance  that her TPD benefit had been declined. Ive considered 
this carefully and Im satisfied she was reasonably made aware. 
Openwork sent a suitability report to Mrs M in October 2017 which confirmed TPD cover had 
been applied for as part of a life and critical illness policy. But it also mentioned that the 
insurer would write to Mrs M to confirm which parts of the cover had been accepted. And 
that she had to check this to make sure the cover was appropriate for her. 
Mrs M has provided some documents from September and October 2017 which show a TPD 
benefit was included. But these documents are only a quotation and illustration. The 
September 2017 document says that the details quoted arent guaranteed until the insurer 
had received and assessed the application. It goes on to say it will provide an acceptance 
offer which will confirm the cover and how much it will cost. Mrs Ms insurer has then 
confirmed it sent out acceptance terms in October 2017 and a policy schedule in November 
2017 which showed that the TPD benefit hadnt been included in Mrs Ms policy. 
Mrs M has said she wouldnt have agreed to take the policy if the TPD benefit wasnt 
included. It appears the intention was for the benefit to be included in the policy, but the 
insurer wasnt prepared to offer this as a part of the application. And I note documents were 
sent out to Mrs M to confirm that TPD benefit was no longer a part of her cover. If she didnt 
want to continue with the policy, she needed to check the acceptance offer and policy 
schedule and let the insurer and Openwork know. 
I can see the life policy Mrs M applied for through Openwork in 2014 was accepted, but TPD 
benefit was declined. The application to the insurer confirms that Mrs M had an operation 
within twelve months of applying for her life and critical illness cover. So, Im satisfied her 
medical circumstances were discussed in the meeting with Openwork. And, given the history 
here, I find it more likely - on balance - that a conversation wouldve taken place about the 
possibility of TPD benefit not being included when she applied for the 2017 policy. 
Mrs Ms frustration at the call recording not being available is understandable in the 
circumstances. But this doesnt mean her complaint should be upheld because that piece of 
evidence isnt available. I think its also worth mentioning here that its not this services role 
to punish or fine organisations for not recording telephone conversations. Were an informal 
dispute resolution service which has a statutory remit to resolve complaints based on what it 
considers fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to ask Openwork to do anything more here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman