DRN-3174223
The complaint
Mr V complains about the time it took him to transfer money between two of his accounts 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
What happened
On 1 April 2021, Mr V wanted to buy some shares. So he tried to transfer £100,000 from his 
current account to his Barclays investment account. He did this at 1.41pm using the Barclays 
banking app. The transaction was carried out by faster payment. When Mr V made the 
transfer he was presented with a message that advised him it would take up to 30 minutes 
for the money to appear in his investment account.
A couple of hours went by and the payment still hadnt gone through, so Mr V phoned 
Barclays. Mr V says the adviser he spoke to said that while a faster payment is usually made 
within 30 minutes, it could take two hours. Mr V says he phoned Barclays again after this 
and was told the faster payment could take four hours, and in its final response Barclays 
said the transfer might not happen until the following day.
Mr V says the delay meant he wasnt able to buy the shares he wanted on 1 April 2020 as 
the stock market had closed. So he was advised to buy them when the stock market opened 
again. The price of the shares had increased by then. Mr V says Barclays gave him the 
impression that it would price match the share trades so he wouldnt miss out financially.
Mr V bought the shares after the market opened again on 6 April 2021. But Barclays refused 
to price match the share trades. It accepted that the message it sent saying the faster 
payment would go through in 30 minutes was unclear and offered Mr V £150 compensation 
for what happened. Mr V doesnt think thats enough. He says the shares he bought were 
around 3% more expensive when he bought them when the market re-opened again, so he 
lost out on around £1,400.
Barclays says it didnt agree to price match any share trades Mr V made on 6 April 2021. Its 
notes say that when Mr V asked about this on 1 April 2021 its adviser said "we can see what 
we can do with price movement", and later in the call that Barclays would look into price 
movement that negatively affected Mr V. Its notes of a phone call between it and Mr V on 6 
April 2021 say that Mr V asked if he could trade, or if he should wait. The adviser said she 
wasnt sure and that the matter was with Barclays complaints team. 
Our investigator said the faster payments system is run by an organisation called pay.uk, not 
Barclays. Pay.uk say that faster payments are usually available almost immediately, 
although they can sometimes take up to two hours. However, they point out that some 
payments will take longer. 
Barclays told us that if faster payments arent made within four hours it would escalate 
matters. In other words, it would then try to take further action to make the payment.
As pay.uk was responsible for the faster payments system our investigator didnt think it 
would be fair for us to hold Barclays responsible for the fact that the £100,000 wasnt 
available for Mr V to use in his investment account by the time the stock market closed on 1 
April 2021.
However, our investigator thought the message Mr V received from Barclays on its app on 1 
April 2021 (saying the transfer would be made within 30 minutes) would have given him the 
impression that the transfer would be made in that timeframe. He also thought Barclays 
made a mistake when Mr V phoned on 1 April 2021. On this call Barclays told Mr V that 
payments could take two hours. However, the Barclays adviser didnt explain that payments 
could take longer than that.  
Our investigator said that the £100,000 was available for Mr V to use in his investment 
account at 4.46pm on 1 April 2021 - after the stock market had closed. Mr V phoned 
Barclays again on 6 April 2021. On this call he asked about the share price difference and 
asked whether he should buy the shares that day or wait. The Barclays adviser told him she 
wasnt sure whether Barclays would match any share price difference, and that that Mr V 
would receive a call back from their complaints team who could advise him further. Barclays 
complaints team phoned Mr V back on 8 April 2021, but Mr V had already bought the shares 
by then.
 
Taking the matter as a whole our investigator thought the £150 compensation Barclays had 
offered to resolve the complaint was fair and reasonable. Mr V disagreed and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Vs complaint is that Barclays should pay him more compensation because 
he wasnt able to buy the shares he wanted on 1 April 2021, and the shares cost him more 
money when he bought them on 6 April 2021. That happened because the £100,000 he 
needed to buy the shares hadnt been transferred from his current account to his investment 
account before the stock market closed on 1 April 2021. 
I appreciate how frustrated Mr V was by this. However, like our investigator I dont think 
Barclays was responsible for the fact that the transfer took around two and a half hours to be 
made. Thats because Barclays isnt responsible for the faster payment system itself. 
Mr V has argued that Barclays advised him to buy the shares he wanted when the stock 
market opened again on 6 April 2021, and that Barclays gave him the impression that it 
would price match the share trades so he wouldnt miss out financially.
Ive considered this, along with Barclays detailed note its conversations with Mr V on 1 April 
and 6 April 2021. Those notes suggest that Barclays didnt agree to price match the share 
trades. On 1 April 2021 Barclays notes say that its adviser said "we can see what we can 
do and it could look into price movement that negatively affected Mr V. On 6 April 2021 Mr 
V asked about the share price difference again. At this point Mr V asked the adviser whether 
he should buy the shares or wait. The adviser said Mr V could make the share purchases 
that day if he wished. However she also said she wasnt sure whether Barclays would match 
any share price difference and that Mr V would receive a call back from their complaints 
team who could advise Mr V further.
 Mr V decided to buy the shares on 6 April 2021, before he received the phone call from the 
complaints team.
 
In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair for more to require Barclays to compensate 
Mr V for the difference in the price of the shares he bought on 6 April 2021 and the price he 
mightve bought the shares for on 1 April 2021. I think he knew that there was a risk that 
Barclays wouldnt compensate him for that when he decided to buy the shares on 6 April 
2021.
Barclays did make mistakes on 1 April 2021. Its message saying the faster payment would 
be made in 30 minutes wasnt correct. In addition to this, t wasnt clear that faster payments 
could take longer that two hours. However, I think the £150 compensation Barclays has 
offered Mr V for this is fair and reasonable bearing in mind the nature of these mistakes and 
their impact on Mr V. 
While I appreciate that Mr V is likely to be disappointed by my decision, I think the £150 
Barclays has offered to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that the £150 Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
offered to pay Mr V to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable. It should pay Mr V this 
money if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman