DRN-3888035
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) gave her incorrect
information when she amended the term and interest rate on her buy-to-let (BTL) property.
What happened
Mrs O held a BTL mortgage with Bank of Ireland that was due to mature in June 2027.
Mrs O was on a variable interest rate that was 2.99% above Bank of England base rate. The
re-mortgage would secure a fixed interest rate of 2.87% for five years and reduce the
remaining term on her mortgage to five years as well.
Mrs O received a mortgage illustration dated 16 December 2021 which said that her
mortgage maturity date would be December 2026, based on 61 payments of £1,936.96. This
assumed her offer was accepted on the same day and was based on an outstanding
mortgage balance of £109,818.29, including the £995 product fee. Mrs O spoke to Bank of
Ireland on 29 December 2022 to confirm her understanding of the offer. Mrs O says she was
referred to up to five different call handlers and given inconsistent information. But she
ultimately decided to agree to the offer later the same day, with the understanding that she
would make her usual pre-offer contractual monthly payment (CMP) on 30 December
2021, that her new agreement would start in January 2022, and her mortgage would mature
in December 2026.
Following her acceptance of the offer, Mrs O received a confirmation letter dated
4 January 2022. The letter confirmed her new rate started on 1 January 2022 based on a
balance of £109,999.96 and the first payment was due on 31 January 2022. Mrs O says she
was surprised the letter didnt confirm the maturity date of her mortgage, so she checked
online and discovered her mortgage wouldnt mature until January 2027.
Mrs O complained that her mortgage maturity date is not December 2026 as she was
expecting, and shes concerned as she thinks shell be making an additional payment that
she wouldnt otherwise have had to make. Mrs O says she made her payment in December
2021, so she thinks the 61 payments referred to in the offer started then. Mrs O has
completed her own calculations using the outstanding mortgage balance quoted on her
mortgage offer, and she believes she will be overpaying by around £1,995.81 based on the
anticipated amount shed pay during the life of the mortgage in the same offer. As such, she
believes Bank of Ireland have not applied the payment she made on 30 December 2021.
Mrs O says the situation has caused significant stress to her.
Bank of Ireland looked into Mrs Os concerns and issued a final response letter on
7 March 2022. It said that the mortgage had been arranged in line with the mortgage offer
and illustration, but due to the timescales involved, the new term start date was later than the
fixed rate start date. But, it said, Mrs O would pay the correct outstanding amount over the
course of the term. It did agree that Mrs O was given misleading information during the
telephone call on 29 December 2021. It said the call handler alluded to her mortgage
maturing in December 2026, which was incorrect. To say sorry for that, it confirmed it would
waive the lending fee of £195 which would otherwise have been charged when her mortgage
matured.
Mrs O didnt accept Bank of Irelands offer, so Mrs O brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Os concerns, but they thought Bank of Irelands offer was
fair in the circumstances. As Mrs O still disagreed, the complaint was referred to me for a
decision. I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2022. Here is an extract of what I 
said: 
Although Mrs Os complaint focuses on the maturity date of her mortgage. I think the real
concern Mrs O has stems from that fact she thinks she will overpay on her mortgage by
around one month by the time it matures. Mrs O has correctly identified there has been an
error in the information presented to her, but she doesnt currently know what that error is or
how it would impact on her, so shes made some assumptions and thinks her payment for
December 2021 has not been reflected on her balance.
Ive looked into whats happened and Im satisfied Mrs O will pay the correct amount by the
end of the term. But Mrs O has been given incorrect information about her outstanding
balance which has given her legitimate cause for concern.
The mortgage offer Mrs O was sent on 16 December 2021 showed the total loan was
£109,818.29, including a mortgage fee of £995. This figure was worked out on the basis that
Mrs Os outstanding balance on 30 November 2021 was £112,274.74. Bank of Ireland
added 15 days of interest that had accrued since that balance was calculated, totalling
£139.89. It also reduced the sum by Decembers CMP of £1,800.00. Everything was correct
up to this point, but Bank of Ireland then deducted arrears of £1,791.34 from the balance. It
did this because any arrears would need to be separated from the outstanding loan amount.
Thats because arrears would not be built back into the new loan, but payable separately.
The problem with this is that Mrs O did not have any arrears to deduct. So, her balance was
made to look lower than it actually was. This happened because Mrs O had missed a CMP
in July 2021. But it has since come to light the CMP was actually received a few days late, in
August 2021. This was possibly due to the date Mrs Os payment fell  I can see it was the
last Saturday of the month, so the payment may not have credited her mortgage until the
next working day in August. So, if the arrears hadnt been deducted in error, the total loan
amount shown on the mortgage offer would have been around £111,609.63, instead of
£109,818.29.
Mrs O took the figure she was given on the mortgage offer at face value at the time. So, she
understandably had cause for concern when she received the confirmation of her new
agreement in January 2022 that said her outstanding balance was £109,999.96  more than
the previous figure despite her having made a CMP. But the figure quoted in January 2022
was actually correct, and it was the previous figure quoted in December 2022 that was
wrong.Mrs O is also concerned that she will need to make 61 CMPs in total because she says her
mortgage has a five-year term, which should equate to 60 months. I think Mrs Os concerns
about this are more likely than not caused by the error explained above. The mortgage offer
confirmed 61 payments would need to be made based on her accepting the offer on
16 December 2021. And Mrs O accepted that at the time.
The number of payments required to pay off the outstanding loan wont change even though
the new term started later than Mrs O expected  adjustments will have been made for that
in the cost of the CMPs. Ultimately, Mrs Os last payment should be on 31 January 2027
which is 60 months from the date the new term started on 1 February 2022.
So, Im satisfied the amount Mrs O will actually pay by the time her mortgage matures is
correct. But she was given cause for concern because of the misinformation in her mortgage
offer and I cant see that Bank of Ireland has ever informed her of its mistake. Mrs O has
been concerned about this for several months now and so I think she ought to be
compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Ive considered what would be fair, taking into account everything Ive said above. Ive also
thought about the fact that there was no actual impact on the account, and that it was a one-
off administration error. Considering everything, I think £150 is appropriate in the
circumstances. I know Mrs O may expect a more significant sum, but the ombudsman
service is an informal dispute resolution service, so our awards are modest in comparison
with formal alternatives, such as the courts. I hope my explanation of what happened has
helped to resolve Mrs Os concerns.
Mrs O has said she tried to withdraw from the new mortgage product several times following
her concerns about the loan amount but was told she was not allowed to. Ive thought about
how this might impact on Mrs Os complaint, specifically if she could have withdrawn, and
whether she actually would have.
Looking at the mortgage offer, it says:
You are free to decline this offer but we may not refund any fees you have already paid to
us. If you accept this offer you can still withdraw from the contract providing you tell us you
have changed your mind before the 19th of the month prior to the new rate becoming
effective (see special conditions). On or after the 19th the rate switch is agreed and you can
only repay the mortgage subject also to payment of any fees and early repayment charges
shown in the mortgage illustration.It goes on to say:
If you accept this offer and we receive all additional items requested before the 19th then
we will start charging interest at the new interest rate with effect from the 1st of the following
month; on or after the 19th we may still process the change to your interest rate so that it is
effective from the 1st of the following month but we cannot guarantee to do this and the new
rate may not apply until the 1st day of the month after the following month.
The important word here is may, technically the new rate could have started
on 1 February 2022. Instead, Bank of Ireland started it sooner, on 1 January 2022. This
meant Mrs Os right to withdraw was significantly reduced, because if Bank of Ireland had
delayed until 1 February 2022 as they were allowed to, Mrs O would have had the right to
withdraw up until 19 January 2022. But starting the interest rate sooner, rather than later,
would have benefitted Mrs O because the new interest rate was lower than her previous
rate. Considering what Mrs Os complaint is about, I think its reasonable to say that she
wanted her new lower rate applied as soon as possible, which is what Bank of Ireland did.
In any case, Ive also thought about what would have happened if Bank of Ireland hadnt
made a mistake in the figure on its offer letter. And based on the evidence Ive seen, if Mrs O
had been able to withdraw after having accepted the offer, Im not persuaded she would
have.
I say this because I think its unlikely Mrs O would have applied and accepted a mortgage
offer from a third-party lender before the start date of her new mortgage term with Bank of
Ireland. So, if she wanted a five-year term, going through the process of re-mortgaging with
a third party would more likely than not have extended the maturity date of her mortgage
even more. Mrs O was happy with the fixed rate and estimated monthly cost at the time of
the offer, so I cant see any reason why this would change if she hadnt thought she would
end up overpaying  which ultimately, for the reasons Ive explained above, she wont.
In addition, since the case has been with this service, Bank of Ireland offered to amend the
maturity date of Mrs Os mortgage to December 2026. This would inevitably increase the
CMPs as this would mean reducing the number of CMPs planned. Mrs O turned down this
offer, so it seems she would rather keep her CMPs as they are than change the maturity
date of her mortgage.
So considering everything, I dont think Mrs O would have withdrawn from her mortgage
contract even if she could have, and I dont think Bank of Ireland needs to do anything more
in terms of this.
Bank of Ireland has accepted that during a phone call on 29 December 2021 Mrs O was
given the impression her mortgage would mature on 31 December 2026, even though it was
clear by then that it wouldnt mature until 31 January 2027. Bank of Ireland offered to waive
the lending fee of £195 that Mrs O would need to pay when her mortgage matures.
For the same reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the correct information would have
changed Mrs Os decision to accept the mortgage offer. So, Im satisfied the compensation
offer is reasonable in relation to this.
In summary, Mrs Os new fixed rate could have started on 1 February 2022, not January
2022 and this would have put it in line with her mortgage term start date. But as the new rate
is lower than Mrs Os previous rate, Bank of Ireland started it as soon as possible on
1 January 2022 and this has likely put Mrs O in a better position overall.Bank of Ireland has offered to amend the maturity date to coincide with the end of Mrs Os
mortgage rate, but Mrs O would prefer to keep her CMPs as they are. So, I think its more
likely than not, Mrs O wouldnt have withdrawn from the mortgage contract even if she could
have.
But I dont think Mrs O was given the correct information when she queried why it appeared
she would have overpaid by the end of the term. The mortgage offer quoted the wrong
outstanding loan amount, and this should have been corrected sooner. So, I think Bank of
Ireland should compensate Mrs O with £150 for the stress and inconvenience this has
caused, in addition to waiving the lending fee of £195 which it has already offered  due to
the misinformation it provided over the phone in December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Bank of Ireland responded to my provisional decision and wanted me to be aware it was an 
application to vary the contract, rather than a re-mortgage. It also said it didnt make a 
mistake on the original offer, that it never said the balance quoted on the mortgage offer was 
the total amount outstanding, but that it was the balance it was calculating payments on and 
doesnt include any arrears. 
To confirm, I understand that the application was to vary the term and rate of the mortgage 
only. But I dont agree that it didnt do anything wrong in terms of the mortgage balance 
quoted on the offer. Bank of Ireland already accepted in an email sent to this service that it 
removed arrears that didnt exist from the balance when it shouldnt have. This gave Mrs O 
the perception the balance was lower than it actually was, regardless of whether this was or 
wasnt presented as being the amount required to redeem the loan. That being said, Bank of 
Ireland has agreed to the proposed settlement, so I have no further comments in relation to 
that. 
Mrs O asked that I speak to her before issuing my final decision on the case. Our 
investigator told Mrs O that ombudsmen generally dont speak to either party and gave her 
the opportunity to make any submissions over the phone or by email instead. Im satisfied I 
already have all the information and evidence I need to reach a fair decision and that my 
provisional decision clearly set out my findings and proposed settled. So, having reviewed 
everything, Im satisfied I dont need to speak to Mrs O on the phone. I have considered 
Mrs Os final comments received by email.
Mrs O responded to my provisional decision with a number of points, many that have already 
been raised as part of this complaint. Mrs O didnt agree with my summary of her complaint, 
she wanted to clarify that she complained because she doesnt believe the terms of the 
mortgage illustration issued to her or the advice she received over the phone were executed 
correctly. Ive thought about what Mrs O has said carefully but Im satisfied my summary of her 
complaint broadly covers what it is about. The remainder of my decision under what 
happened and my provisional findings went on to discuss the complaint in more detail 
including how the mortgage illustration was implemented and the information Mrs O was 
given during her phone call with Bank of Ireland. And as Ive previously explained, the 
mortgage was executed correctly as per the illustration provided to Mrs O, but the advice 
Mrs O was given over the phone was incorrect. 
Mrs O says she was not focusing on when her mortgage would expire, but that the mortgage 
illustration and advice she was given led her to believe the mortgage wasnt executed 
properly. I explained in my provisional decision that the mortgage was executed properly, 
and all of the information provided to her indicated the mortgage may start and therefore end 
later than proposed, depending on when the terms were agreed to. I dont think this would 
have been different from any other lender and Im still not persuaded Bank of Ireland did 
anything wrong in terms of this, other than misadvising Mrs O over the phone that the 
mortgage would mature in December 2026. 
Mrs O also says she should have been allowed to withdraw from the product. While I 
appreciate her concerns about whats happened, for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision, I still think its more likely than not Mrs O would have kept her mortgage with 
Bank of Ireland despite the errors. I know Mrs O thinks the fact Bank of Ireland made some 
mistakes is enough to say that she wouldnt have, but its not. I have to consider what Mrs O 
would actually have done, and I dont think it would have benefitted her to go back to her old, 
higher, rate. So, if the errors had been explained sooner, I dont think Mrs O would have 
changed her mind about taking out the product. 
Mrs O says she would have been happy to accept the investigators findings because he 
said the end date of her term should be amended to 31 December 2026, as per the 
misinformation Mrs O was given over the phone. Mrs O feels the investigator changed his 
assessment. But this isnt what happened. On proposing the same outcome to the business, 
the investigator was informed what impact changing the date would have on the CMP and 
he shared that information with Mrs O. It was then Mrs Os decision whether she wanted her 
maturity date to reduce and CMPs to go up, or whether to keep it as it was to avoid higher 
CMPs. Mrs O did not want her CMPs to increase, so its her choice to keep her maturity date 
the same as it currently is. Ultimately, Mrs O cant avoid paying the full amount she owes 
either the CMPs need to go up or the maturity date needs to remain the same.
Mrs O still thinks shell end up paying more than she otherwise would have done. I explained 
in my provisional decision why thats not the case and I dont think theres much more I can 
say about that. Im satisfied Mrs O will not pay more than she should over the life of the 
mortgage. 
Finally, Mrs O asked if the lending fee Bank of Ireland has offered to refund at the end of the 
term can be paid to her immediately. Ive thought about this but refunding the lending fee is 
something the business has offered to do, which I may not have offered. Mrs O hasnt paid 
the lending fee yet, so theres nothing to refund at this point. Bank of Ireland has already 
agreed to pay £150 compensation I recommended for the errors I described above, and Im 
satisfied that is appropriate in the circumstances. So, Im not minded to ask Bank of Ireland 
to pay the lending fee to Mrs O directly when she hasnt paid it yet herself.
So, Ive considered the responses from both parties, but I still think this complaint should be 
upheld. For the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, Bank of Ireland should 
put things right by compensating Mrs O with the below.Putting things right
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:
Pay Mrs O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Waive the lending fee of £195 when Mrs O redeems her mortgage  I understand 
steps have already been taken to ensure this happens.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman