DRN-2520119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs S noticed water staining on the carpets in the front room of 
their home and made a claim. 
QIC appointed its agents to attend and carry out leak detection to determine the cause of the 
water damage. Mr and Mrs S also appointed a specialist to carry out a trace and access 
survey on their behalf.
The first two reports ruled out an internal leak. But they were inconclusive on where the 
water which caused the damage had come from. So Mr and Mrs S appointed a specialist 
national damp proofing company to give their opinion on the matter. Mr and Mrs S feel that 
QIC hasnt taken this report into account.
QIC declined the claim. It said that no insured event had occurred which would provide cover 
for the water damage under Mr and Mrs Ss policy. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree so it 
complained to QIC. QIC didnt uphold their complaint so Mr and Mrs S came to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with QIC that thered been no 
insured event that would provide cover for the water damage under the policy. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy booklet explains that the following is covered under their policy: 
What is Covered 
In the event of damage to buildings which are owned by you or for which you are
responsible, at an insured address shown on your schedule as a result of a sudden
or unforeseen event which is not specifically excluded, we will pay the cost incurred
of repairs, replacement or reinstatement.
So the policy refers to damage as a result of a sudden or unforeseen event which is not 
specifically excluded. This claim would fall under unforeseen event, and so QIC can only 
decline the claim if its specifically excluded.
The exclusions to the Buildings Section are also set out in the policy booklet:
Defective Design or Workmanship
Any damage caused by, or resulting from defective maintenance or materials, design or 
workmanship.
QIC say that the agents who carried out the leak detection on its behalf couldnt find any 
internal leaks. The agents said that the water damage reported had likely occurred due to an 
external source of dirty water. Mr and Mrs Ss initial report also stated there were no internal 
leaks. QIC concluded that the water damage was due to defective workmanship, which the 
policy doesnt cover. QIC also note that at the time the claim was reported Mr and Mrs S told 
the claims team that theyd noticed the ground floor flooring had started to raise and believed 
it to be an issue with the damp proof. 
I note that as the damage Mr and Mrs S claimed for was caused by water, the only events 
covered by the policy that couldve caused the damage were storm, flood or a leak to an 
internal service in the property.
I havent seen anything which showed the damage was caused by a storm. And no-one who 
inspected the damage found any evidence of a water leak. So I need to decide whether the 
evidence shows that the damage was caused by a flood for the complaint to be upheld.
Three specialists have inspected the damage and provided an opinion on the possible 
cause. The first two specialists were focussed on leak detection, which they didnt find. 
QICs agents reported the damage around the joists was considerably worse near the 
brickwork. A salts analysis test indicated the salts damage to be ground water. The 
brickwork beneath the flooring was also contaminated with salts indicating this issue had 
been going on for some time. They found the damp-proof course to be defective and no 
evidence of damp-proof course within the extended part of the property. So while QICs 
agents did find ingress of water, they also found defective or missing damp proof courses.
Mr and Mrs Ss first specialist confirmed that there was wet rot on joists, orange fungus on 
carpets and that the walls and floor were saturated. They felt the issue with the kitchen floor 
was because the concrete may not have been dried correctly before the wood flooring was 
laid. If a liquid DPM was laid prior to the install this may have failed. They felt the damp in 
the other areas was being bridged from the outside due to the cavity wall insulation. This is 
causing insufficient air flow and high humidity causing sub floor condensation. This in turn 
was causing the floorboards and floor joists to become saturated causing severe mould and 
fungus that looked like wet rot. They also found the air brick on the inside wall was half 
covered with rubble. So Mr and Mrs Ss first specialists also found signs of both external 
water ingress and defective workmanship causing amongst other things a lack of adequate 
ventilation.
So both the leak detection specialists reached different conclusions about the source of the 
problems. But they both note that defective workmanship might be responsible.
The second report commissioned by Mr and Mrs S was produced by a specialist damp proof 
company. Mr and Mrs S dont feel that QIC took the contents of this report into account when 
it declined their claim. But Ive read it in full and it doesnt change my decision. That report 
noted that there was a lot of standing rain water at the top of the driveway of the property 
that was running downhill towards the house. The specialists were unable to test the 
effectiveness of the damp proof membrane, so they couldnt comment on the condition or 
performance of this element. But the report did say that the water damage was possibly due 
to an external source of dirty water, potentially a breach in ground water. The report also 
said although the sub floor area was found to be damp so we would recommend 
improvement of the sub floor ventilation.So the report from the damp proof specialists also established that the damage wasnt from 
a leak. It also noted external water ingress and defective workmanship in the sub floor 
ventilation.
All three reports show elements of defective workmanship. But they also show external 
water ingress. However, the policy terms allow QIC to decline a claim on the basis of 
defective workmanship, regardless of whether or not there was a flood. Given all three of the 
specialists have shown defective workmanship, Im satisfied that QIC acted fairly when it 
declined the claim on those grounds. 
However, as Mr and Mrs Ss representative made some points after our investigator issued 
her view, Ill also look at whether the water ingress was caused by a flood. This hasnt made 
any difference to my decision but may provide clarity for Mr and Mrs S.
I think its fair to say that a flood is a build-up of water that sits on top of the ground for a 
period of time. I dont think the cause of a flood has to be a sudden and violent event. It can 
be caused slowly and steadily. 
I havent seen anything here which showed thatd happened. Water mightve entered the sub 
floor which caused dampness which in turn caused the damage. Water mightve entered into 
the cavity in the wall due to a failed damp proof course or partially blocked air brick. But 
there was nothing to suggest the water built up and remained there to the extent that the sub 
floor or the wall flooded. There was also nothing to identify a specific flood  rather than 
just general water ingress. This would constitute a gradually operating cause which is 
excluded under the policy. And it looks like the water got into the house because there were 
a few issues with defective workmanship.
I know that Mr and Mrs Ss representative says that theyve clearly evidenced that the 
damage was from an escape of water or a flood. But Im not persuaded there is any 
evidence to that effect. And I have seen evidence of defective workmanship.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative also says that QIC relied on evidence from their specialist 
whose remit was to find a leak, not to consider external water ingress. He says that was also 
the remit of Mr and Mrs Ss first specialist report. He goes on to say that this means no-one 
looked for external water ingress. So he doesnt think its fair to decline this claim on the 
basis of there being no insured peril in force. He believes there was a flood and that the 
evidence of this is the external water ingress. So he doesnt think it was fair or reasonable 
for QIC to decline the claim on the basis of defective workmanship. 
Although theres almost certainly been an ingress of water, the evidence doesnt prove a 
flood. Even if a flood or other insured event had been proven, QIC could fairly apply the 
defective workmanship exclusion.
I can appreciate that this complaint has been stressful and time-consuming for those 
involved. And I note that it has been a worrying time for Mr and Mrs S due to Mr Ss ill 
health. But QIC acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman