DRN-1651594
 
The complaint 
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Miss T says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold during an online application. During the application process Capital One 
should have made Miss T aware she had a choice in taking out the PPI. 
From what I know about how Capital One sold PPI online, Miss T wouldve been given a 
yes or no option. Capital One has given me a document showing what Miss T selected 
when she applied for her card and this shows she selected yes to agree to take out the PPI.
So, I think Capital One made it clear that Miss T didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember something like this 
when the application took place 15 years ago.
In my experience Capital One didnt give personal recommendations about the PPI to its 
customers. So, it didnt have to check if it was suitable for Miss T. But it did have to make 
sure Miss T got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like Miss T was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Miss T says 
she had some sick pay benefits from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid out 
alongside these benefits. It wouldve also covered her repayments if Miss T lost her job. And 
it doesnt look like Miss T had any other means  such as savings - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss T about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell   Miss T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss T has said  including what she has said about 
being told the policy was compulsory when she asked Capital One when she noticed the PPI 
on her statement. Capital One says it no longer has any call recordings. 
Where I dont have any clear evidence, I have to think about what is most likely to have 
happened based on everything Ive been told. So, I dont have a recording of the telephone 
call and I have to consider that this event happened a long time ago and Miss Ts 
recollections might not be as clear as she thinks they are about what she was told. Which is 
understandable. But I havent got anything to support what she says. And this means is I 
cant fairly say that Capital One gave her wrong information when she asked about the PPI 
showing on her statements. So, this point doesnt change my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman