DRN-1285432
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont take into account 
modifications to his car in its valuation under his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy 
that further damage was caused by Admirals approved repairer and with some of its 
customer service. Mr B is represented in this matter by his daughter, Miss B.
What happened
Mr B said hed taken out cover with Admiral because it told him that, if he made a claim, the 
modifications to the car would be considered in its valuation. But this wasnt the case after 
he made a claim. He also said the car had been further damaged by the repairer. And he 
said his approved caller, Miss B, had received poor service. 
Admiral accepted this and paid Miss B £75 compensation. It couldnt locate the sales call, so 
it upheld Mr Bs complaint about this and paid him £150 compensation. And Admiral agreed 
that its repairer had damaged Mr Bs car and it paid him £50 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought we 
couldnt consider Admirals offer of compensation to Miss B as she wasnt Admirals 
customer. He thought Admirals offer of compensation for the garages damage was fair and 
reasonable as this hadnt affected the overall valuation. 
And he thought Admirals offer of compensation for the mis-sale was fair and reasonable as 
modifications wouldnt necessarily add value to the car and the policy said they wouldnt be 
taken into account in a valuation. 
Miss B replied that she thought the £50 compensation for the further damage wasnt enough. 
She also thought Admiral should take into account the modifications in making its valuation. 
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that he understood that, in the case of its total loss, 
Admiral would pay him the value of his car with its modifications. Mr B is adamant that hed 
switched to Admiral because of this, and I have no reason to doubt that this was what he 
understood at the time. 
Unfortunately, Admiral was unable to locate the sales call where this was discussed. It 
initially declined Mr Bs claim because it wouldnt cover modifications. But it gave Mr B the 
benefit of the doubt and agreed to pay him the cars value without the modifications. Miss B 
said these had cost her father £15,000 and so Mr B has had a significant financial loss.  
The cars modifications are set out on Mr Bs Motor Policy Schedule. They include a bodykit, 
a respray, alloy wheels and interior changes. So I think its evident that Mr B made Admiral 
aware of the modifications and it still offered him cover for his car.
But the Schedule also includes a section of Endorsements and refers Mr B to his policy 
booklet for further details about these. One of these sections is Standard Parts 
Replacement. This is explained on page 42 of the policy booklet where it says that the 
policy wont cover any non-standard parts. 
I can see that Mr Bs policy booklet also says that Admiral excludes modifications from 
cover. This is set out on page 19 under what Admiral wont pay:
for replacing or repairing any modifications, unless they form part of the manufacturers 
standard specification
I think this is a common exclusion from cover in motor insurance policies and not unusual. I 
can understand that Mr B thought these would be covered. But I havent any evidence to 
show that Admiral told him that they would be included in any valuation. I think the policy 
terms and conditions make it clear that this wouldnt be the case. So I cant say that Admiral 
should take these into consideration in the settlement of Mr Bs claim. 
As it couldnt locate the sales call, Admiral offered Mr B £150 compensation for any upset 
caused by a mis-communication. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances. I dont require Admiral to increase this offer.
Admiral appointed an independent assessor to look at the further damage Miss B said had 
been caused to the car by the repairing garage. He said that the damage was to the bumper 
which would need to be replaced in any case. So I cant say that this caused Mr B any 
further loss. 
Mr B had the trouble of providing photographs taken before the car was moved to the 
repairers. Admiral offered him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
I can understand that Miss B thinks the repairer should have taken better care of the car. But 
as I havent seen evidence that this hasnt caused Mr B further loss, I think it was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
As the investigator has already explained, Im unable to look at Miss Bs complaint about a 
call handlers level of service. This is because she isnt Admirals customer and so, under the 
rules that govern us, not a valid complainant.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman