DRN-2683476
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an online banking problem he 
tried to report to it.
What happened
Mr M says he had problems accessing his online banking as Barclays systems would ask for 
the last four digits of his account card but then reject it, as it actually needed five digits to be 
input. He says he tried to explain to Barclays what the problem was, but it didnt understand, 
and its systems didnt allow him to send it the required screen shots. Mr M would like the 
system fixed and has spent some time trying to explain to Barclays what the issues were.
Barclays accepts it hasnt dealt with Mr Ms complaint as it should have and has offered 
£125 compensation. It says it changed the digit requirements from four to five and agrees 
with Mr M that its systems should ask for the correct information.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer of 
£125 fair and reasonable for how Barclays dealt with the complaint. The investigator thought 
Barclays had explained why it made the digit requirement change.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays showed no interest in 
understanding his complaint and that there is still a fault. He would like Barclays to correct its 
processes and provide a means of providing it with, for example, the screen shots. Mr M 
also complains that he was advised by the investigator to speak to Barclays about the 
issues, but it wouldnt speak to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision 
and I also appreciate how strongly he feels about whats taken place.
It may be helpful if I set out what our role is here. We look at a complaint and come to an 
independent decision about that. We are not, as in this case, Barclays regulator and so we 
cant order it to change it processes. I make that clear as I can see that Mr M would like 
Barclays to correct its authentication process and provide a means of sending it information. 
I also cant fairly order Barclays to tell Mr M or anyone else what if any changes it has made 
to it processes or provide any details of any review it may have carried out following this 
complaint.
There is no dispute here that there was an online access problem and that Mr M was unable 
to send the information he wanted to Barclays. I appreciate Mr M was caused inconvenience 
and was frustrated by his attempts to provide that evidence. But Im satisfied that Barclays 
has apologised for not managing part of this complaint as it should have and has offered 
what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £125. I think that offer fairly 
reflects what took place and that Mr M didnt suffer any financial loss as a consequence.
I accept that Mr M was told by us that Barclays would have liked to have spoken to him to 
understand his complaint but when he called it, he was told that wasnt the position. I 
appreciate Mr M was caused inconvenience by that, but complaint handling is not something 
I can consider or comment on as its not a regulated activity.
Overall, I appreciate Mr M will have unanswered questions about this complaint and is likely 
to remain unhappy with how its been dealt with. I hope Mr M understands why I cant fairly 
comment on parts of his complaint and on the solutions he would like. I will leave it to Mr M 
to decide if he wishes to accept Barclays compensation offer and I think this brings an end to 
what we, in trying to resolve this dispute informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. Mr Ms acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman