DRN-3054880
The complaint
Ms M complains that Prepaid Financial Services Ltd (trading as HyperJar) closed her 
account without giving her notice or a reason, leaving her unable to access her funds.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HyperJar made its decision to close 
Ms Ms account fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Its not required to tell Ms M its reasons for this  and, in the circumstances, 
Im satisfied it didnt have to give notice. But I hope its reassuring for her to know this 
has been impartially checked by our service.
Ms M says the closure left her unable to access £12 which she held in the account. 
But her statements show that, at the point HyperJar closed the account, it had a zero 
balance. Im conscious this will also have limited the impact on Ms M of not getting 
notice that the account would be closed.
While there was a transfer of £50 made into the account that seems to have been 
processed around the same time as the closure, HyperJar has explained it cant pay 
this directly to Ms M. Thats because, due to the account being closed, it could only 
return the funds to the sender. I consider that reasonable in the circumstances. If this 
is money owed to Ms M, and it still hasnt been paid, that would now be a matter 
between her and the sender. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms M. But overall, Im satisfied that HyperJar has 
acted reasonably here. I havent found that shes unduly lost out due to its actions. So Im 
satisfied that HyperJar doesnt need to take further action to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
