DRN-1711962
 
The complaint 
Mr B and Ms S complain about how Santander UK Plc handled their application for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms S applied for a mortgage with Santander in July 2019. After the application was 
accepted they had to pay a non-refundable booking fee. They chose to pay this upfront 
rather than adding it to their mortgage.
As part of the application process Santander completed a valuation of the property. This 
identified some cracks. A survey by a qualified surveyor was required to look into possible 
subsidence. 
At the start of August Santander sent Mr B and Ms S a mortgage offer. This contained the 
full conditions of the mortgage as well as requesting a further survey in order to complete.
Mr B and Ms S provided a report to Santander later that month. However it responded to say 
the report wasnt clear. A few days later it said the report hadnt been completed by a 
qualified surveyor so would need to be re-done. They provided a new report in 
September 2019 which was accepted by Santander.
Mr B and Ms S were unhappy with how their mortgage application had been handled. They 
said it wasnt fair that they had to pay the non-refundable fee before receiving the conditions 
of the mortgage. Further they said they hadnt been aware of the additional cost of a survey 
and this could have been avoided if Santander had done a better quality survey to begin 
with. They also thought Santander had caused delays and provided poor service.
Santander didnt agree that the fee was unfair and said it would never be refundable even if 
the mortgage hadnt completed. It also said that it its reasonable for it to act in a 
recommendation by its own supplier when they request a detailed inspection. However it 
recognised there had been a small delay in it telling Mr B and Ms S that the first survey they 
provided wasnt suitable. It offered them £40 to make up for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr B and Ms didnt think this was fair. They said the compensation wasnt enough to make 
up for the inconvenience Santander had caused them. Further they said it was due to 
Santanders first survey not being sufficient that they had to pay for their own and they still 
thought paying the fee before the offer was unfair. They brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought Santander had correctly followed its processes so hadnt acted unfairly by 
not refunding the fee. Further he said he thought it was fair for it to rely on information from 
the valuation survey to ask for a more detailed report. Finally he thought the delays caused 
by Santander were only minor so £40 was enough to make up for this.Mr B and Ms S didnt agree. They said that Santanders process was unfair and didnt meet 
its requirement to treat customers fairly as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. They 
asked for their complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In order to reach a decision I have considered whether Santander has treated 
Mr B and Ms S fairly while handling their mortgage application. And if it hasnt, what should 
be done to put thing right. Mr B and Ms S have made three different complaint points which I 
will address in turn.
Non-refundable fee
Mr B and Ms S feel that Santanders booking fee is unfair. They say that they were 
committing to something before they have agreed to the terms. I can appreciate why they 
feel this way. However this service doesnt have the power to tell businesses to change their 
processes. We consider whether they have applied them fairly in the individual case.
In this case I can see that two options were offered for paying the booking fee  either 
upfront or as part of the mortgage. But for both methods the fee would be non-refundable. 
Mr and Ms S opted to pay the fee up front. At this stage they had not received the mortgage 
conditions. They were told the fee was non-refundable so they knew were paying a non-
refundable fee before receiving the full mortgage conditions. At this stage they could have 
decided not to proceed with the mortgage and look for an alternative lender that doesnt 
charge a fee. However they paid the fee and the mortgage conditions were issued.
Because of this, I cant say that Santander has acted unfairly in these circumstances. Its 
process is to charge a non-refundable before providing the conditions of the mortgage. And 
Mr B and Ms S had the option to not progress with the application and not pay the fee. 
However as they decided to go ahead and agree to pay the fee, I cant say Santander have 
acted unfairly by not refunding it.
Further the mortgage has now completed. And Mr B and Ms S have not expressed that they 
were unhappy with any of the conditions other than having to pay for an extra survey  which 
I have addressed below. So even if the fee had been refundable, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr B and Ms S would have pulled out of the mortgage after receiving the 
mortgage conditions. For these reasons I think Santander has acted fairly by not refunding 
the booking fee. 
Additional report
Mr B and Ms S are unhappy that Santander required them to pay for an additional specialist 
report. They say this wouldnt have been required if Santander had provided a more detailed 
report to start off with. And they were only made aware of the extra cost after they had paid 
the booking fee. 
I have considered this. Santander have explained that the report it instructed was a valuation 
report. This is usually required during a mortgage application in order to confirm the value of 
the lending matches the value of the property. The valuation is unlikely to be carried out by 
someone who is an expert in construction. As the main purpose is to assess the value and 
not if any repairs are required. However if a property does require extensive repairs, this could affect the value of the 
property. So I understand why a further report, completed by a specialist may be necessary 
on some occasions.
In this case a further report was recommended. And Santander said it would require this in 
order to provide a mortgage. The cracks identified in the first report could have indicated a 
problem with subsidence at the property. This is a potentially significant issue so it is 
reasonable for a lender to want to know more. 
Further, a valuation survey is a standard part of a mortgage application, so its likely that one 
would have been required if Mr B and Ms S had gone with a different lender. And, if there 
are cracks present at the property, it is likely that an additional survey would also have been 
required with other lenders. I therefore think its reasonable for Santander to follow a 
recommendation in its own valuation report. 
Further, as the booking fee was paid before the valuation report was carried out, it wouldnt 
have been possible for Santander to know that another report would have been required 
before the fee was paid. Therefore it wasnt possible for Santander to inform Mr and Ms S of 
the need for an additional report before the fee was paid. 
Delays and poor service
I have considered the service provided throughout the mortgage application and completion. 
The application was made at the start of July and the mortgage completed at the end of 
October. I dont think this is an unreasonable time frame.
I have also looked at any delays that could have been avoided. I can see that Santander did 
take a couple of weeks after it received the second report from Mr B and Ms S to inform 
them it would need to be re-done. This did delay the process by around two weeks. 
Santander has accepted that it should have told them sooner than this and offered £40 
compensation to make up for the inconvenience. 
The longest delay appears to have been caused by the fact that Mr B and Ms S had to 
obtain a second report after the first didnt meet the requirements. Santander made it clear in 
the mortgage conditions that the report would need to be compiled by a structural engineer 
and listed qualifications that they must have. Mr B and Ms S would have been aware of this 
requirement when obtaining the report. So I cant say this delay was Santanders fault.
For these reasons I think the £40 compensation already offered by Santander is a fair 
amount to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. I therefore wont 
require it to do anything differently or in addition.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr B and Ms S £40 
compensation if it hasnt done so already. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling it 
that Mr B and Ms S have accepted my final decision. If Santander UK Plc pay later than this 
it  must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman