DRN-2304754
The complaint
Mr D complains about the bonuses that he received in respect of his with-profit whole of life 
policy held with The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London).
What happened
From 2002 up until 2019, Mr D was paying monthly premiums of £20 for a with-profits whole 
of life assurance policy (the policy). By 2019 the basic sum assured was £3,404. And in that 
year, Mr D decided to surrender his policy, receiving £4,210 in January 2020. The reason for 
this was he didnt think it was fair that in 2018 and 2019 hed received less in bonuses than 
he paid in premiums  in 2018 the annual bonus was £211 and in 2019, it was £226. As he 
was unhappy that the bonuses were less than the £240 he paid in premiums for each year, 
he surrendered his policy and complained to Royal London.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Royal London focused on the surrender value itd paid him, 
which it said was correct. On this basis, it didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D didnt think Royal 
London had understood his complaint, which was about the bonuses he received in 2018 
and 2019. So he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this matter. In brief, she didnt think Royal London had misled 
Mr D. She thought it was made clear to him that the level of bonus he would receive each 
year, was not guaranteed. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view, so asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is he thinks its unfair that in 2018 and 2019, he paid more in 
premiums than he received in bonuses. I know Royal London focused its response to Mr Ds 
complaint on the surrender value, but it did provide a clear explanation about the bonuses. 
And based on everything, I dont think Royal London has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
Mr Ds case. Ill explain why.
In her view to Mr D, our investigator set out in significant detail how the bonuses are decided 
by Royal London, so I wont repeat that again here. In essence, the amount payable under 
Mr Ds policy over and above the basic sum assured, was dependent upon a number of 
factors. This included factors such as the performance of the underlying fund in which Mr Ds 
policy was invested and also by the decisions made by Royal London. The initial policy 
document Mr D wouldve received at the start of his policy in 2002 says that bonus means 
an amount allocated to this policy in respect of its share in our profits. The amount of any 
Bonus is declared by our Board of Directors on the advice of our Appointed Actuary. The 
level of future Bonuses, or that there will be any, cannot be guaranteed. 
So looking at this description, I think it was made reasonably clear that the bonuses paid 
each year could not be guaranteed. And that this was because there were a number of 
factors which affected what could be paid. These included the performance of the underlying 
fund and also the decisions made by Royal London in the exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement.
Mr D says he didnt think a with-profit policy was subject to the same ups and downs as 
more risky investments such as those found on the stock market. I understand what Mr D is 
saying  these types of policies involve the pooling of money and invest in a diverse mix of 
assets such as company shares, property and cash deposits. These strategies, along with 
other actions taken by Royal London such as smoothing, which our investigator explained 
to Mr D, are designed to mitigate the extreme movements investments can experience. But it 
doesnt remove risk entirely. And unlike other investments, Mr Ds policy contains a 
guarantee about the amount of money Royal London will pay in the event of a death claim. 
So a bonus can also depend on the number of claims made by other policyholders.
Ultimately the only guarantee Mr D had was that if he paid all his premiums on time, Royal 
London would pay, on his death, the basic sum assured. Whilst it also promised to pay any 
bonuses due, how much these bonuses would be, or if any would be paid at all, was not 
guaranteed. And I dont think Royal London misled Mr D about this. 
I appreciate Mr D didnt think the policy offered value for money and with a reduction in the 
bonuses, he was concerned his family wouldnt benefit from all that hed paid in. But this is a 
risk with any insurance contract  if a claim against the cover is made in the early years, far 
less is paid in premiums than the sum assured. And the opposite is true the later a claim is 
made. The hope with a with-profits policy is that the investment element will increase its 
value and thereby, mitigate the risk of paying in more than the cover. However, this is not 
guaranteed as it all depends on various factors such as those Ive outlined above.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome, I cant 
fairly say that Royal London has done anything wrong in his case. It follows from what Ive 
said, that Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman