DRN-3984781
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) policy terms werent 
explained to him regarding windscreen damage, under his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr B says his car windscreen needs a replacement due to stone chips. He says Admiral is 
relying on policy terms set out in a document that restricts its liability to only pay a minimal 
amount if the repair isnt completed by its nominated repairer. Mr B says the document 
containing these terms wasnt brought to his attention and shouldnt form part of his 
insurance contract.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint Admiral says his policy limits its contribution for a 
windscreen replacement to £50 if this is not arranged through its glass helpline. When the 
policy was incepted, it says Mr B was told key information could be provided over the phone. 
However full information relating to the policy terms was available on its website. Admiral 
says Mr B accepted this.
Admiral says the renewal documents it sent to Mr B in August 2022 confirmed that he should 
read the documents provided along with Your Car Insurance Guide available on its website. 
The business thought it had made clear to Mr B that he should read all the information 
highlighted, which includes the document containing the full terms and conditions for his 
policy. 
Mr B didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He says Admiral had treated Mr B fairly by relying on its policy terms. He says Mr 
B had been made aware that the full terms were available online, during the application 
process. This was reiterated in the information he was sent. 
Mr B didnt think this outcome was fair. He says Admiral didnt adequately direct him to the 
policy terms he was expected to read. Because he remained dissatisfied Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain.
Mr B says that to replace his windscreen will cost around £1,300. I can see from a transcript 
of a webchat he had with Admiral, that he said his car will be devalued if non-approved parts 
are used. He says this will also affect his manufacturers warranty. In the web chat Mr B tells 
Admiral that to limit the policy cover to £50 is absurd given the actual replacement cost of 
the windscreen in this case.
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs policy includes windscreen cover. Ive read his policy terms to 
understand what cover is provided. The terms under section three, Windscreen Damage 
say:
1. Cover for your windscreen 
If there has not been any other loss or damage, we will pay to: 
repair or replace broken glass in your vehicles windscreen, windows or sunroof.
If we need to replace any glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the vehicles 
manufacturer but is of a similar standard and quality. If there is no glass available and it 
cannot be reasonably sourced, we will pay the cost shown in the manufacturers latest price 
guide, together with reasonable fitting costs.
If the repair or replacement is not arranged through our glass helpline, and costs more 
than your excess, we will pay up to: 
£25 for each glass repair 
£50 for each glass replacement.
Mr B didnt want Admiral to use its appointed repairer. In these circumstances the terms are 
clear that the policy will pay £50 for the replacement windscreen. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs view that he wasnt told to read the relevant terms relating to 
windscreen cover or directed to where they were available. 
I can see the policy schedule says this document provides important details about the policy. 
It says, It must be read along with Your Car Insurance Guide, which is available online at 
www.admiral.com.
The certificate of motor insurance sent to Mr B says, You must read this document in 
conjunction with Your Car Insurance Guide and your Policy Schedule.
Mr B and Admiral have supplied screen shots of the information available via his online 
account and on its website. Mr Bs online account shows a list of documents set out under 
the heading Your Documents. Below this is a box that says, Please click below to view 
you Policy Booklets and Insurance Product Information Documents (IPIDs). Details of your 
cover can be found on the Policy Schedule(s), please refer to it to select the relevant IPIDs. 
There are two buttons below this box. One says, View IPIDs the other says, View Policy 
Booklets. Clicking on view policy booklets links to a document entitled Your Car Insurance 
Guide. This sets out the full terms and conditions for Mr Bs insurance policy. I note Admiral 
also points to its website where View policy books is provided as a link to the same 
document.
Mr B says he was aware of the policy schedule and certificate of motor insurance along with 
the other documents detailed in his online account. But I note his comment that this didnt 
refer to a document entitled Your Car Insurance Guide. Ive thought about the point Mr B 
makes. 
Mr B was made aware he should read the insurance guide document along with the previous 
information mentioned. His online account provides a link to read the full terms and 
conditions of his policy. If Mr B had clicked on the View Policy Booklets button this wouldve taken him to the 
document he was required to read. If Mr B couldnt find this information, Id expect a 
reasonable person to contact Admiral to query where this could be found or to request a 
copy be provided. 
The policy schedule and certificate of motor insurance explain that these must be read in 
conjunction with the insurance guide. The schedule and certificate are fairly limited in detail 
only providing the key facts about the cover. The same is true for the remaining documents 
listed under the Your Documents section from Mr Bs online account. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs view that the term limiting a payment to £50 in these circumstances, 
wasnt made clear to him. But he was provided with access and direction to the information 
he was expected to read. This included the document setting out the full terms and 
conditions of his policy. This document contains just under 40 pages. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect the full terms and conditions of a motor insurance policy to be included 
in the summary documents Mr B refers to. 
Admiral has provided an account of the telephone calls it had with Mr B at the inception and 
renewal of his policy. It says he accepted that only limited information, that didnt include all 
the policy terms and conditions, would be provided over the phone. Admiral confirms Mr B 
accepted this with the understanding that this information was available on its website. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral failed to provide Mr B with the relevant 
information regarding his policy terms. Im satisfied that the policy terms are clearly 
explained. Because of this I dont think Admiral treated Mr B unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms when dealing with his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman