DRN-3321335
The complaint
Y complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has treated it unfairly in relation to a 
claim on its business interruption insurance.
Any reference to Y or Ageas includes respective representatives or agents unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Y holds a Commercial Choice Insurance policy with Ageas.
In July 2021, Y contacted Ageas to make a claim following a flood which caused 
damage to its business premises.
Ageas accepted the claim for business interruption cover and appointed loss 
adjusters (LA) to manage the claim.
Following some back and forth with the LA, Y complained about the progression of 
the yet unpaid claim and said the amount of information it was being asked to provide 
was unreasonable.
Ageas said its LA was awaiting information from Y, including photographs of 
damaged stock, and evidence of accounts and monthly turnover for a period of 36 
months prior to the loss. It said this information was required to validate the claim.
Y provided documentation, including historic accounts data.
In November 2021 Ageas paid Y £15,000 as an interim payment related to the 
business interruption claim. On receipt of Ys evidence, its LA said it would monitor 
Ys business performance over a period once it was running again from the premises 
in question. It said this was due to Y receiving wildly different turnover each month 
which made it difficult to establish a monthly average.
Y disagreed, saying these actions would damage its ability to trade. Instead, Y 
proposed Ageas pay it a cash settlement in full and final settlement.
Ageas declined to cash settle the matter, saying it would not be fair to agree a final 
settlement of the claim at that time as its calculations may not be accurate. It said the 
LA had instructed a forensic accountant to support validation of the claim. Soon after 
it paid an additional interim payment of £10,000.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt 
Ageas decision to monitor business for a longer period of time was reasonable in 
light of Ys varying income. And she said its appointment of a forensic accountant to 
take the matter forward was fair given the complexity. She also wasnt persuaded 
there had been any unreasonable delay and that there was no avoidable 
inconvenience caused to Y to an extent she would compensate for.
Y also mentioned concerns about more recent events since the appointment of the 
forensic accountant. Our Investigator explained these events fell outside of the scope 
of this particular complaint so she would not be able to comment on them. 
As Y disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ys claim is for business interruption, which falls under the Loss of Income section of its 
policy. As Ageas has accepted the claim, I dont need to consider this aspect any further.
What remains in dispute is how Ageas has handled the claim, including its level of 
investigations and time it has taken. And its refusal to cash settle the claim at Ys request.
Under the conditions of the policy it says Ageas will have complete control of any 
proceedings and the settlement of any claim.
The policy also says, Y as a policyholder is required to provide at its own expense all 
information and assistance Ageas may reasonably require.
From this, it seems clear to me that the information required in handling and settling a claim 
is at Ageas discretion to determine. Theres nothing unreasonable or unusual about these 
terms, and theyre common in insurance policies of this nature.
But we would expect Ageas to apply this discretion fairly and reasonably in light of the terms 
and the circumstances of the claim.
Y has said the information the LA has sought was unreasonable.
From what Ive seen of the LAs requests (photographs of loss, financial records going back 
several years to establish a regular income) I dont agree these requests were unreasonable 
or unnecessary in the circumstances, nor in light of the sums involved. I also understand Y 
had concerns about the financial implications of retrieving some of this information. 
However, as outlined above, Im satisfied this information was necessary and therefore any 
associated cost sat with Y in line with the policy terms.
Ageas LA has said due to the fluctuation of Ys monthly income it is difficult to calculate its 
loss accurately. And it had said it could not provide a final settlement in light of the wider 
claim (the repair of the property) still ongoing, which was outside of its hands, so it didnt 
know how long Y would remain out of the property. I think these are reasonable 
considerations for it to take into account.
Y agreed its income does fluctuate but has said this was the nature of a smaller firm. I also 
dont disagree with this. And I wouldnt expect something being difficult meaning a claim 
should continue indefinitely. However, in this case Ageas sought to appoint a forensic 
accountant in mid-November soon after the relevant account information was provided by Y. 
So, it seems to me that Ageas decision to appoint an expert in this area to support it with the 
claim going forwards is a sensible one. 
Looking at the timeline of events, it seems the claim was progressed in a prompt and timely 
manner. And that Y was kept updated with the progression of the claim. It also seems to me 
the majority of the back and forth between the LA and Y that took time was due to 
outstanding information on Ys part. Overall, its possible Ageas couldve been quicker in 
places, but this isnt to an extent that Id be looking to compensate Y for.Ys agent has expressed the personal frustration this experience has caused them. I have no 
reason to doubt this, but as our Investigator has explained previously, I am only able to 
consider the inconvenience caused to Y in this case, not its agents.
I also appreciate Y may prefer Ageas to simply settle the claim, but ultimately this isnt its 
decision to make. For these reasons, Im not persuaded to direct Ageas to cash settle this 
claim as Y requested.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman