DRN-2873909
The complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card account
that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr D says he applied for the credit card account in April 2019 and £1,500 was transferred
from that account to his current account. He says MBNA shouldnt have accepted his
application as it should have been clear he was in financial difficulties. Mr D says he had a
number of short-term loans and other high cost loans as well as two other credit card
accounts. He says he had missed payments leading up to the MBNA application and had
taken out about 12 payday loans in the last 12 months. Mr D would like the balance he owes
written off and any adverse information removed from his credit file.
MBNA says it carried out appropriate checks on the application and says Mr D applied for
the money transfers after the account was opened with a credit limit of £1,500. It says it
credit scored the application and says Mr D declared an income of just under £30,000. And
its checks showed unsecured debt of about £20,000 and disposable income of £871, as Mr
D lived at home with his parents.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator
thought the balances in Mr Ds bank accounts were over the overdraft limits and he had
taken out four short term loans in the previous 12 months. The investigator thought MBNA 
ought to have carried out further checks which would have shown a number of gambling
transactions. The investigator recommended MBNA refund the interest and charges as well
as remove adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.
Mr D accepts that view but would have liked the balance written off.
MBNA doesnt accept that view and says it doesnt have access to Mr Ds bank statements
and says its searches showed no new accounts in the three months before the account was
opened. And no other credit card debts. It says its checks showed Mr D had a low debt risk
and there was no adverse information on Mr Ds credit file.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and I came to the provisional view that 
MBNA had not made a mistake or acted unfairly by approving Mr Ds credit card account.
 I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any application for credit or borrowing. I said those checks will of course vary 
depending on the type and amount of lending. This complaint is about a credit facility rather 
than for example a loan. I said I also looked carefully at the information Mr D gave MBNA 
and the checks it carried out.
I could see that Mr D had an income of just under £30,000 and was in full time employment. 
I could also see from MBNAs records that it credit scored the application and carried out 
credit checks. Those checks showed that Mr D didnt have any adverse information recorded 
on his credit file such as County Court Judgements, missed payments or any recent 
defaults. I was satisfied that MBNA calculated Mr Ds debt risk and took into account that on 
the face of it he had a disposable income of over £870 a month.
So, I thought on balance MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr 
Ds application and that on the face of it the lending facility was affordable. I also thought 
MBNA approved a relatively modest credit limit of £1,500. I appreciated Mr D says MBNA 
ought to have looked at his bank account statements. But I was satisfied that MBNA wouldnt 
have access to those statements unless Mr D gave them to it. And I didnt think it reasonable 
to have expected MBNA to have asked to see them when I made clear that it carried out 
appropriate checks on the application.
I looked at Mr Ds bank statements and could see that Mr D was making a number of
gambling transactions. I accepted that was Mr Ds choice, but I also thought it likely that it 
was the gambling transactions that led to the financial difficulties. And I didnt think MBNA 
could have known about them or taken them into account unless Mr D told it about them.
I accepted that Mr D has provided screenshots of his credit file that shows he took out short
term loans, but I also accepted MBNA took into account Mr Ds loans when assessing the
account affordability. And I made clear that my provisional view was that the lending was
on the face of it affordable based on Mr Ds income and expenditure, but that MBNA would
have been unaware of the additional gambling expenditure.
 I said I would look at Mr Ds credit file in detail if he provided a full copy of it before my final 
decision as well as information about the other credit card accounts, he says he had.
Overall my provisional view was that MBNA carried out reasonable and proportionate checks
on Mr Ds credit card application. And that it was entitled to consider his income and the lack
of any adverse information on his credit file before deciding the lending facility was
affordable. I also made clear to Mr D that even if I thought the lending was unaffordable, 
then I would not have ordered MBNA to write off the balance as he had the benefit of that 
money.
Mr D doesnt accept my provisional decision and has provided a copy of his credit file. He 
questions why a credit card application would have less stringent checks that a loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ds credit file and Im satisfied that it doesnt contain such 
adverse information that would have meant MBNAs lending was irresponsible or 
unaffordable. I can see that Mr D had a loan that was managed appropriately and other 
agreements that he made required payments on. 
I appreciate Mr D questions the level of MBNAs checks. I have made clear that Im satisfied 
MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and that this was a credit facility for a modest amount rather than for example a mortgage application in which a lender would 
normally want to look at bank account statements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman