DRN-3706708
The complaint
Mr D complains that when he used a service provided on his insurance policy he received 
poor service. He also says Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) renewed the policy without 
speaking to the person paying the premium first. Mr D wants compensation for this. 
What happened
Mr D has a private medical insurance policy that provides cover for several family members. 
It's paid for by Mrs O, who is representing Mr D. For ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mrs 
O, as shes been the main contact throughout  but wherever I do that, I also include Mr D.
When Mr D and Mrs O needed medical advice for a child, Vitality gave them two telephone 
numbers for GP services. One of the numbers didnt work, and the second was answered by 
someone who refused to provide any help. Mrs O says they had to get a NHS GP to provide 
medical advice.
When Mrs O complained to Vitality it asked the private GP service what had happened  but 
the provider said it had no record of any calls. Vitality told Mrs O this, and also said that it 
couldnt take matters further as it wasnt responsible for the service provided by the supplier. 
Instead it gave Mrs O the relevant phone number for her to complain direct to the provider if 
she so wished.
Mrs O says Vitality cant step back from its responsibility for the poor service provided. She 
also says Vitality renewed the policy without consulting her first. Vitality said it had sent Mrs 
O paperwork about auto-renewing her policy and what she should do if she wanted to make 
changes.
Mrs O has asked this service to review these complaints.
Our investigator looked at the complaints, but thought Vitality had done enough to meet its 
responsibilities. She noted that Vitality had a contract for service provision with the private 
GP, but that it wasnt responsible for the quality of the service. She thought it appropriate 
that Mrs O take up her complaint direct with the provider if she wanted to. She also noted 
that Vitality had sent Mrs O sufficient notice that the policy would auto-renew in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy unless Mrs O told Vitality otherwise. Overall, our 
investigator didnt think Vitality did much wrong.
Mrs O doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. The 
complaint has two main issues so Ill deal with them separately.
Service
Vitality has a contract agreement for the provision of some services  such as the remote 
GP service Mrs O tried to use. However, that doesnt automatically mean Vitality is 
responsible for the quality of the service. The quality of the service on any given day wasnt 
something it could control. Nor was the service provider whats often called an agent of 
Vitality  which is when a provider acts, effectively, in place of Vitality. That isnt the case 
here, as Vitality doesnt provide any medical services  instead it obtains and pays for them 
if the terms and conditions of the policy are met. I cant say that Vitality is responsible for the 
quality of service the GP provided.
I can see that Vitality asked the contractor to explain what had happened, and that the 
response was less than satisfactory. But I think Vitality did then act correctly by giving Mrs O 
the information she needed to take the matter further direct with the provider if she so 
wished.
Policy Renewal
This policy is provided on an auto-renewal basis, and thats explained in the policy terms and 
conditions. Many policies renew this way. Vitality was required to notify Mrs O (as she paid 
for the policy) before it was automatically renewed. Im satisfied it did that, as Ive seen 
copies of the relevant paperwork it sent about a month before the renewal date. Theres no 
record of contact about this before the renewal date, so I cant say Vitality acted incorrectly 
when it renewed the policy on the same terms as before.
I can see that when the renewal issue was raised with Vitality, it didnt call her as promised, 
and Mrs O had to remind Vitality to do something about it. I think the apology sent by Vitality 
about this was an appropriate way to respond to this. I can see Vitality adjusted the cover as 
Mrs O required and reduced the premium to match. Thats the right thing for it to do, as it 
means Mrs O hasnt been financially disadvantaged.
Taking everything into account, I cant say overall that Vitality did much wrong, and where it 
made a mistake it dealt with that appropriately. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman