DRN-3407747
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt process her Data Subject Access
Request (DSAR).
What happened
Mrs A submitted a DSAR in February 2019. The DSAR documents were sent to Mrs A in 
June 2019  but to her previous address. They were sent again in October 2019. Mrs A 
then complained that her bank statements werent included in the DSAR response and 
asked for these. They were sent in February 2021.
Mrs A complained. She said Lloyds were too slow to provide the documents. She wanted 
the information to support her Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (MPPI) claim. As a 
result, she couldnt progress it. She needed the bank statements to see if she paid MPPI 
premiums. The MPPI claims deadline had now passed. She said shed chased Lloyds 
many times  and this was stressful and time-consuming. Because Lloyds hadnt 
responded, she had to go to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to get Lloyds to 
deal with her request.
Lloyds apologised for the slow response. They paid compensation of £80  being one 
amount of £30 in October 2019, and one amount of £50 in February 2021. During our 
investigation, Lloyds could not tell us why there had been a delay in providing the DSAR.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt acted fairly. Overall, 
it had taken from early 2019 to February 2021 for Mrs A to get the information she asked 
for. Mrs A said to us that she chased Lloyds many times  but Lloyds notes didnt confirm 
that. While our investigator accepted that some of the delays were due to the pandemic, 
Lloyds shouldve have provided the information sooner. She recommended that Lloyds 
increase their compensation to £150 (to include the £80 already paid).
Mrs A didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. She said 
the payment of £30 wasnt linked to this complaint  it was because Lloyds didnt return her
call.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The ICOs guidance is clear  that firms should respond to DSARs within 30 days. And here
 this didnt happen. Firstly, Mrs As DSAR in February 2019 took longer than 30 days  
as I can see it was sent in June 2019  but then to the wrong address. And it was then 
resent to the correct address in October 2019. So that was much more than 30 days. I can 
see from Lloyds notes that they paid compensation of £30 for that.
Mrs A then asked that her bank statements be included in the DSAR  and raised another 
request in October 2019. Its not clear from Lloyds notes why it then took so long to 
provide those  they were eventually sent in February 2021. In the meantime, Mrs A had 
contacted the ICO who wrote to Lloyds. We asked Lloyds what happened and why that 
took so long  but they cant tell us  other that the pandemic cause some delays. Mrs A 
says she chased and called Lloyds several times - but Lloyds cant evidence any calls or 
correspondence. Neither can Mrs A  as she said she had changed her phone and 
number since then. In February 2021, Lloyds apologised and paid a further £50 in 
compensation  making a total of £80.
So  we have a situation here where its just not clear why the delays occurred, or what 
communications took place between Lloyds and Mrs A. And in circumstances like this, I 
must make a decision based on the probability of what likely happened. Mrs A has 
provided us with a timeline of her contacts with Lloyds between February 2019 and 
February 2021. These include several calls and letters between Mrs A and Lloyds, and 
two branch visits to provide ID. I dont doubt that these took place  but Lloyds have few 
records of the same contacts.
But in summary  Lloyds took eight months to complete Mrs As DSAR  which is very 
clearly too long. And then  took a further 15 months to provide Mrs As statements - 
which again is clearly too long. Ive considered the effects of the pandemic  during which 
its accepted that firms took longer to respond to information requests such as Mrs As  
but the effects of the pandemic ran from March 2020, and that cant explain the extent of 
the delays here.
Turning to the effect of this on Mrs A  she says it caused her MPPI claim not to proceed  
because she needed the information to establish if she was paying an MPPI premium. PPI 
claims closed on 29 August 2019. So - if Lloyds had provided the DSAR within 30 days of it 
being requested in February 2019 (as they should have)  then Mrs A could have possibly 
used the information in her MPPI claim. But also - I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mrs A in 
July 2020 to say that they couldnt trace her having MPPI. I have also looked at Mrs As 
bank statements for the period between February 2019 and October 2019  and there isnt 
evidence of a MPPI premium being paid from it. And - Mrs A hasnt brought forward 
anything from her DSAR which might support a MPPI claim  such as evidence of a 
premium being paid, or a MPPI policy being in existence. So  Im not persuaded that there 
was an effect on a potential MPPI claim.
Turning to the matter of compensation. Mrs A has already received £80: £30 was paid in 
October 2019 (and I can confirm it was for the delay in the DSAR). A further £50 was paid in
February 2021. Our service has established criteria for deciding on levels of compensation.
An award between £100 and £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated 
small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. Typically, 
the businesss actions could have resulted in some acute stress lasting hours at the lower 
end  or a have had a milder impact across a longer period.. I think that what happened to 
Mrs A falls into this definition  and I think that given the extent of the delays here, an 
amount at the upper end of this scale is appropriate  so £300, of which £80 has already 
been paid.
I emphasise that this is a provisional decision and is subject to any comments that Lloyds 
and Mrs A may have. There is a lack of evidence here  and if Lloyds can provide some
evidence in their favour then I will review it.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Lloyds agreed with the findings and the payment of additional compensation. Mrs A 
responded and made the point that she had to contact the ICO to get Lloyds to respond  
and this should be taken into account.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hear what Mrs A had said to us  but I consider the inconvenience of Mrs A having to 
contact the ICO as being covered by the award of £300. In the circumstances of Mrs As 
complaint, I think this is the right amount of money to be paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Pay compensation of £220 to Mrs A  in addition to the £80 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman