DRN-4298736
The complaint
Mr M complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
He says that Tesco didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Tesco to refund him the money he has lost as a result.
 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr M had just become unemployed and was concerned about making 
ends meet. He thought he may be able to make some extra money by investing and did 
some research online. 
He came across a company that he thought looked genuine and legitimate and entered his 
details into the website.
Mr M then received a call from an individual, who explained that he would help Mr M with his 
investments. 
Mr M was persuaded to make the following payments using his Tesco credit card. V is a 
legitimate investment company, and J is a cryptocurrency exchange.
Date Amount Handling fee Payee
12 November 2018 £237.35 £6.52 V
13 November 2018 £1,000 £39.90 J 
13 November 2018 £4,500 £179.90 J 
26 November 2018 £3,000 £119.70 J
Mr M paid a total of £8,737.35 directly to the scam and was charged £339.15 in handling 
fees for the transactions.
Mr M thought that he could see his investment in the account the individual who contacted 
him had set up on his behalf, but when he wanted to withdraw his money found that he was 
unable to and became aware that he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr M then complained to Tesco, but it didnt uphold his complaint. He then brought his 
complaint to this Service where it was considered by our Investigator. 
Our Investigator thought that the scam could have been prevented by Tesco from the point 
when payment of £1,000 was made when Tesco spoke with Mr M about what he was doing. 
They said that Tesco should have been aware of how scams like the one Mr M fell to work  
and that it hadnt shown that it gave Mr M an effective warning when it spoke with him.
However, our Investigator also felt that Mr M hadnt done enough to mitigate his own losses 
and felt that a deduction of 50% should be applied.
Mr M accepted this, but Tesco didnt. 
Tesco said that;
While the call recording is no longer available, it was not fair to say that it didnt 
question Mr M about the payment or provide an effective warning
V was not on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or the International Organisation 
of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) warning lists at the time the first payment was 
made, and hasnt been added to either list since, so there was no effective warning 
to provide regarding V to Mr M
While a warning could be provided about investments and scams, with no material 
evidence that Mr M was dealing with a scammer, there would be no reason he 
wouldnt continue to invest
Not all investments are scams, and the fraud block was an indicator that it was 
concerned with Mr Ms spending with J. It goes on to say that investments in crypto 
are high risk anyway, and Mr M actively sort out this type of investment.
As Tesco didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
While Tesco has suggested that there was no indication that Mr M was dealing with a 
scammer, I believe that he was. Both V and J are legitimate companies  but the services 
they provide can be used by scammers as a way of obtaining funds from individuals as part 
of a scam which is what I believe has happened here. 
Everything that Mr M has told this Service about how contact was made with him, how he 
was unable to access his supposed profits, the pressure to pay more money, that the 
scammer abruptly cut contact with Mr M, the use of AnyDesk, and the platform he was using 
to monitor his supposed investment suddenly disappearing are all hallmarks of this type of 
scam. So, Im satisfied that Mr M was the victim of a scam here.  
However, even when it is clear that a scam has taken place, and an individual has been 
tricked out of their money, it doesnt necessarily follow that a business will need to refund the 
money that has been lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Tesco should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr M when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them. 
Did Tesco act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ms case?
I wouldnt expect the initial payment made to V to have triggered any response from Tesco 
to check with Mr M about the payment he was making  it was relatively low value, and 
businesses cant be expected to intervene in every payment a consumer makes.
However, it is clear from the notes Tesco has provided that it did have concerns with the 
£1000 payment Mr M made to J - as it placed a fraud block on Mr Ms account and spoke 
with him on the phone.
Tesco says Mr M confirmed the payment was genuine  and I have no doubt that at the time 
he thought it was  but Tesco clearly was suspicious about the payment  and so asking Mr 
M to confirm if the payment was genuine doesnt go far enough. 
I understand Tesco says the intervention would have warned him about the potential 
concerns about this type of payment  but its notes dont support this. They only say that Mr 
M confirmed the payment was genuine. While I wouldnt necessarily expect the call 
recording to be available given the time that has passed, if Tesco had questioned Mr M 
accordingly about this payment, I would expect the notes to reflect what questions he was 
asked, and that a warning was given.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M had been told to lie about the payment he was 
making  so if Tesco had asked him, I think that he would have told it that he has been 
contacted by an individual after submitting his details onto a website offering investment and 
had been instructed to download Anydesk onto his computer and to purchase crypto.
This should have been enough of a red flag to Tesco to inform him that it was likely he was 
being scammed  and that he shouldnt proceed with the payment. And had Tesco given 
such a warning to Mr M, I dont think he would have continued with the payment.
So, I think that Tesco missed an opportunity here to prevent the loss from this point.
That said, I do need to consider if Mr M did enough here to mitigate his own losses, and if I 
need to apply a reduction for contributory negligence here.
Mr M says that he was researching online for an investment  and entered his details into a 
website he found that seemed on the face of it to be legitimate  but he doesnt appear to 
have done any further research or checks. After receiving a call from an individual who he had no reason to trust, he was told of unrealistic promises of return and allowed remote 
access to his computer, while also sending a large amount of money in one day. Therefore, I 
feel that responsibility for the loss should be split equally between Mr M and Tesco, and in 
this instance feel that a reduction of 50% would be appropriate given the circumstances.
Recovery of the payments Mr M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt expect Tesco to do anything to recover the 
payments until it had been told that something had gone wrong. However, I am not 
persuaded that there was any reasonable possibility of any of the payments being recovered 
here.
While Mr M could potentially have raised a claim for the payment to V under the Section 75 
Consumer credit Act 1974, I dont think that he would have been able to provide the 
necessary evidence for this to succeed. 
And as the other payments were made to J  a cryptocurrency provider  the debtor (Mr M) - 
creditor (Tesco) - supplier (scammer) chain is broken, as the 'supplier' in this scenario and 
according to the statement is the cryptocurrency provider (J) itself, and it provided the 
services requested of it  which was the purchase of crypto and subsequent transfer to a 
wallet of Mr Ms choosing.
I also dont think that its likely a chargeback request for any of the payments would have 
been successful here either for similar reasons.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should refund Mr M from the £1000 
payment with a deduction of 50% for contributory negligence.
I calculate this to be £4,250.
It should also refund Mr M 50% of the fees it applied to these transactions. I calculate this to 
be £169.58.
On top of this, Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should also pay Mr M 
8% simple interest from the dates of the payment until settlement (minus any lawfully 
deductible tax). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman