DRN-4377424
The complaint
Ms K complains about the delays in QIC Europe Ltd dealing with a claim for fire damage on
her home insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022, Ms K was woken up during the night by a neighbour banging on her front
door. Ms Ks next door neighbours house was on fire. The two properties are joined together
and the fire affected Ms Ks house. Ms K and her partner were luckily not harmed by the fire,
however, Ms K later called QIC to claim for the damage caused by the fire.
QIC reviewed the claim and accepted it. It also arranged for Ms K to have alternative
accommodation (AA) as her house was uninhabitable due to the damage. The neighbours
property was initially deemed unsafe and so QIC couldnt start work on Ms Ks house.
However, in July 2022, the neighbours property was deemed safe and so QIC was able to
commence work.
Ms K initially complained to QIC in July 2022 about the poor claim handling. QIC
acknowledged it hadnt responded to Ms K requests for updates and chasers but said the
building work was likely to start in 3-4 weeks time and be completed by Christmas. In
October the repair work still hadnt started and so Ms K complained again. As she didnt get
a response, Ms K referred her complaint here. She said QIC was taking too long to start
work on her house, additional items had been damaged as the house wasnt weather tight
and she was concerned her AA would run out before her house had been repaired.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 September 2023 where I said:
When issuing my decision, I would like to clarify that Im only considering whats happened
up until Ms K raised her second complaint with QIC on 9 October 2022. Concerns about
anything that happened after that date would need to be raised as a separate complaint.
When dealing with a claim QIC should do so promptly. Its clear from the length of time
since the claim was reported and Ms K raising her complaint about delays that this hasnt
happened. I understand QIC has said the delays are outside of its control, however, Im not
satisfied its done enough to persuade me of that.
I say this because I can see Ms K raised her claim in March 2022, then in July 2022 QIC
was able to commence work once the property was deemed safe. QIC acknowledged it
could commence work in its response to Ms Ks initial complaint, in July 2022. However,
when Ms K complained in October 2022 work still hadnt commenced. Im also aware it didnt
start until around February 2023. However, as Im only considering the delays up until Ms K
made her second complaint on 9 October 2022, the delays after that date will need to be
considered separately.
QIC has said it was unable to start work as it needed to repair the roof first and that this work
needed to tie in with the neighbours roof being repaired, as they are connected to each
other. QIC said if this wasnt done then it would leave an overhang until the neighbours roof
was repaired, which would require a building warrant. Ms K disagreed with this point and
following our investigators outcome checked this with her local authoritys building standards
department. Shes provided an e-mail from them which confirms QIC would not need a
building warrant.
Even if QIC did need a building warrant, Im not persuaded its handled the claim promptly. I
say this as Ms K raised with QIC in July 2022 that her neighbours repairs were still not likely
to start for several months. And so, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for QIC to
look at what other options it could pursue, rather than just wait for the neighbours repair
work to start. And as it hasnt shown it did this, Im not persuaded its acted fairly by not 
starting work or looking at other alternatives.
As Im satisfied that it appears QIC has unfairly delayed Ms Ks claim, Ive looked at how to
put this right. By not progressing the claim promptly, it would appear QIC has caused around
four months of delays, when Ms K complained in October 2022. I can also see QIC
acknowledged it didnt respond to Ms K when she chased her claim as it should have. From
looking at the claim notes Ms K was regularly chasing QIC and asking for updates and
clarification on what was happening as it wasnt clear.
When taking the delays and poor claim handling into account, Im satisfied £750 is fair and
reasonable compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience QIC has caused.
I say this as Ms K was in AA and concerned about her home and her belongings, following
what was a traumatic event. Its clear from the contact notes that Ms K was concerned about
this and also where she would live if her AA ran out before her house was repaired.
Therefore, QIC needs to pay Ms K £750 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it
caused up until 9 October 2022.
Ive also considered Ms Ks points about additional items being damaged, and her AA
running out before her house is habitable again. As Im satisfied QIC has delayed the claim, I
expect it to ensure Ms Ks AA is extended to cover the four months of delays it caused up
until 9 October 2022. However, in regard to the additional damaged items, as Ms Ks house
wasnt weathertight when she complained, its not clear the extent of the damage the delays
have caused to other items. Once Ms Ks property is weathertight, I would expect QIC to
review the additional damage caused while Ms K waited for her property to be repaired and
made watertight. If Ms K is unhappy with QICs response at that time, Ms K would need to
raise her complaint about those items separately to this complaint.
QIC responded and didnt accept my provisional decison. It said while a building warrant 
wasnt needed for the repairs to Ms Ks house, as it is a mid-terraced house then it would 
either have been unsafe to leave the roof exposed until the neighbours property was rebuilt 
or would need to effectively be turned into an end terrace property, which would require a 
building warrant. 
QIC also didnt agree it hadnt handled the claim promptly. It said it had chased the repairs 
on the neighbours property on 7 July 2022, 26 September 2022 and 10 October 2022. QIC 
also didnt think £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience was in line with other 
awards this service would make.
Ms K responded and said QIC was notified on 26 April 2022 that the property was made 
safe and so thought repairs could have started sooner than July 2022. Ms K also reiterated 
that this issue has caused her significant distress and inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses, but Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. I say this because while QIC has shown it chased the repairs with the 
neighbours property three times, Im not satisfied this is enough to show it was dealing with 
the claim promptly. This is because the incident occurred in March 2022, and QIC was 
notified in April 2022 that the property was safe. Im therefore not persuaded that chasing the 
neighbours repairs in July 2022 is handling the claim promptly or that QIC looked at other 
options to move this claim forward as explained above.
Ive also considered QICs comments in regard to the £750 compensation I recommended in 
my provisional decision. Ive noted QICs comments, but I dont agree. The compensation 
Ive awarded is in line with when substantial distress and inconvenience has been caused. 
Im satisfied QIC delayed this claim for at least four months and Ms K has clearly suffered 
substantial distress and inconvenience during this time. This is because this claim has 
affected her home, meaning it wasnt able to be lived in and also her belongings. Ms K was 
also chasing QIC to move the claim along and clearly extremely worried about the additional 
damage being caused. Im therefore satisfied Ms K did most likely suffer considerable 
distress and inconvenience, and so QIC needs to pay her £750 to compensate for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd:
1. Pay Ms K £750 for distress and inconvenience caused by the claim delays until 9
October 2022
2. Add an additional four months to the maximum allowed for Ms Ks alternative
accommodation, if needed, to compensate her for the delays up until 9 October 2022
3. Review any additional damage caused to Ms Ks property and belongings once the
property is watertight
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman