DRN-2630272
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments he didnt authorise from his 
account.
What happened
Mr A reported payments from his business account as fraudulent to Monzo. These were 
made through a mobile payment service (Apple Pay) on his phone. Three payments 
totalling over £1,250 were made from his business account in this way on 9 October 2020. 
He says he was abroad then with two business partners and was sharing a room. He was 
tired and went to sleep and says that they brought back two females from a bar and who 
must have been able to access his mobile phone to make the payments. He is unhappy that 
Monzo did not refund the money and told him that it would be closing both his business and 
personal accounts.
Monzo said it wouldnt be refunding the money as the payments were made securely using 
his phone and which had remained in Mr As possession. It said it had decided to close the 
accounts under the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He provided a detailed list 
of transactions that evening both from Mr As personal account and then the business 
account. Transactions to the same merchant had been made from both accounts  the 
merchant category code was the broad one of drinking places and included bars and 
nightclubs. Transactions had started from Mr As personal account at 20:14 that evening and 
continued until 21:04. These had been funded by transfers from his savings pot. The 
specific ones in dispute here from the business account had started at 21:11 and the last 
one was at 22.39. Those payments had been funded by separate transfers from an account 
at a different financial business a matter of minutes before each one. He had contacted that 
business and it told him that these used touch ID as security. Mr A told him he hadnt 
pursued these as fraud as he was concentrating on the payments on from Monzo.
Mr A said he had Face ID set up for his mobile phone payments and a passcode. Our 
investigator didnt think it likely that Face ID would have worked if Mr A had been asleep. 
And although Mr A said his passcode then was his date of birth and could be seen in his 
passport in his room it seemed unlikely this could have been guessed and used. The 
payments were spread out, started soon after Mr A had seemed to make genuine payments 
from his account and didnt seem likely to be the actions of a fraudster.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He was unhappy that everything 
he had said was considered to be a lie. If he had authorised the payments he said he would 
have taken responsibility for them. And no consideration of his medical condition had been 
made at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A is distressed by what happened. And Ive seen a letter from his doctor 
dated 3 December 2019 setting out that he had some prior mental health issues linked to 
financial problems. I dont doubt from what he says that these have continued, and he has 
been significantly affected by the consequences of the payments he disputes here.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the phone and security details 
used for these payments?
- Did Mr A authorise the payments on the account? 
- Did Monzo act reasonably? 
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated using the security information on his mobile 
payment service. It isnt possible to say whether that was his Face ID or the passcode, but 
the audit reports held by Monzo show that the correct verification codes were recorded.
The issue is whether Mr A consented to them. I know he is adamant that he didnt. I need 
here to evaluate his explanation of what happened which is that he knew nothing of them to 
the extent that he was asleep at the time. So, Im not looking at a scenario say where he was 
tricked into making these payments. 
Our investigator asked Mr A about the pattern of both personal and business payments to 
this merchant to see what he could say about them. He said that he didnt remember much 
about what was happening but that he was shocked and disgusted and he now knew a first 
attempted payment was declined. While the focus of this complaint has been the business 
payments the preceding ones from his personal account are relevant context and I cant 
safely assume Mr A accepts those either even if he hasnt officially pursued them with 
Monzo.
The first payment from his personal account was for £49.92 and this used chip and the PIN 
on his card for verification. While the first attempt was declined it was tried again and 
authorised. This was at 20:14 that evening. The next payments from his personal account 
used the mobile payment service from his phone provider and as these were all under £45 
they came within the contactless limit and may not have needed separate verification.
Mr A is clear he had gone back to his room and was asleep at the time of the payments he 
disputes. Looking specifically at the business payments the first was at 21:11 for £86.60 and 
followed a transfer of £150 that same minute from his account at a different financial 
business. 
Mr A hasnt said how far his room was from the bar, but on his account Id need to think that 
the fraudsters had accompanied his business partners and almost immediately started using 
his phone with a mobile processing terminal. And that the payments were for some reason 
spread out over 80 minutes. And they followed payments from his personal account that had 
started an hour before that. If the fraudsters did have free access to his account at the other 
financial business it is unclear why they would first transfer the money to Monzo and then 
not take as much money as quickly as possible - especially because if Mr A was asleep 
there was a risk he would wake up. Like the investigator Im struggling to accept that Face ID would be viable to use for someone asleep or that again the fraudsters could have 
discovered his passcode. And if they had free access to his phone why they didnt take that 
and try and make further payments before his account was blocked when he contacted 
Monzo.
I cant know exactly what happened and Mr A has nothing to corroborate what he says must 
have happened. Im thinking about what is most likely and for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think its most likely that a third party was able to access his account in the way he 
describes. So that leads me to conclude that the most likely explanation is that the payments 
disputed were authorised by him and which I know will be a very disappointing outcome for 
him. I think it was reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr A responsible for the payments.
Monzo also gave Mr A the required notice period under the terms and conditions to close the 
accounts. That was a commercial decision it made. And so, taking everything into 
consideration I dont have a basis to find that it acted unreasonably and should refund the 
payments to Mr A as he wants.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman