DRN-2756070
The complaint
Mr D complains about Money Redress Limited (MRL) and an unsolicited marketing call he 
received. Mr D doesnt think MRL had the right to hold his data so feels theyve breached 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules.
What happened
On 23 May 2020, Mr D spoke with a third-party company about his pension. Ill refer to this 
company as P. While Mr D was on this call, P offered to refer Mr D to MRL and explained 
they would bring them into the call. MRL say Mr D opted in to this service, but Mr D disputes 
this.
MRL were brought into the call but while Mr D was on hold, the line dropped. So, MRL 
attempted to call Mr D back. This call was unsuccessful. Mr D says MRL called him again 
the next day, where he questioned how they obtained his details and made a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR).
Mr D says he heard nothing else from MRL, so in July 202 he raised a complaint. Mr D was 
unhappy that MRL held personal data for him when he hadnt consented for them to do so. 
And he was unhappy theyd failed to respond to his DSAR. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for this upset this caused.
MRL didnt agree. They thought Mr D opted in to their contact on the phone call held initially 
with P in May. So, they thought theyd acted fairly by holding Mr Ds personal data. And they 
said they had no record of Mr D making a DSAR. But within their response, they confirmed 
all the data they held for Mr D and attached the call recordings they had available. Mr D was 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She listened to the call 
recording of the conversation between P, MRL and Mr D. And she thought Mr D had opted in 
to MRL discussing their services with him. So, she didnt think theyd done anything wrong 
by holding his personal data for this purpose. And she hadnt seen evidence to show Mr D 
had made a DSAR in May, so didnt think MRL had done anything wrong by not responding 
to it. So, she didnt think MRL needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He didnt think Ps agent had provided proof of his identity. So, he didnt 
think this call was enough to show he opted in to being contacted by MRL. And he didnt 
think the call was an accurate reflection of the conversation and suggested it may have been 
doctored. And he thought MRL hadnt provided a call recording to show he made a DSAR as 
this would show theyd acted unfairly. But he maintained a DSAR was made and MRL had 
failed to respond to it. So, he thought he should be compensated. 
Our investigator responded to Mr Ds comments but didnt think they changed her original 
view. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so his complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I recognise Mr Ds 
opinion that he didnt consent for MRL to contact him. So, when he received a call from an 
unrecognised number from a business he was unaware of, I can understand why this 
wouldve been concerning. And I can appreciate he wouldve wanted clarification on what 
information MRL held and how they obtained it. But for me to say MRL have done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they obtained Mr Ds contact details, and stored them, 
unreasonably without any consent to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its important to note my role is to consider whether MRL have acted fairly and reasonably 
when contacting Mr D. Its not my role to consider the rules of the GDPR and punish MRL for 
any breaches that may have occurred under these rules. This is the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) who regulate data protection within the United Kingdom. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr D, P and MRL on 23 May 2020. Initially, Mr D spoke to P 
regarding a pension he believed may have been mis-sold. I think P made it clear they were 
acting as an introducer for MRL, and MRL would be the business that would pursue a claim 
for Mr D if it was necessary.
Within the conversation, Im satisfied P explained who MRL were and what their involvement 
would be. And after this, they asked if Mr D was happy to speak to MRL. Mr D confirmed that 
he was. And Mr D then spent a short amount of time discussing this with MRL as they tried 
to ascertain who provided him with the pension. There was difficulty in working out who the 
provider was, and MRL placed P and Mr D on hold while they looked into this in more detail. 
During this hold, I think Mr D left the call as when MRL returned, only P was left on the call. 
MRL offered to call Mr D back and P agreed with this next step, confirming Mr Ds contact 
number.
So, I think MRL acted fairly when calling Mr D back. I think Mr D opted in to being contacted 
by MRL by agreeing to speak to them on the call with P. Because of this, I dont think I can 
fairly say that MRLs call back to Mr D was unsolicited, or that they held his contact details 
without his permission.
I understand Mr D thinks this call may have been doctored. But Ive no evidence to suggest 
this was the case. Having listened to the call, I think it was an accurate reflection of the call 
that was held and so, Ive taken it as such.
And Ive listened to the call MRL made when they attempted to speak to Mr D again. This 
call was unsuccessful, and it reached Mr Ds voicemail. And MRL have said they didnt 
attempt to speak to Mr D again after this.
Mr D doesnt agree as he believes he spoke to MRL and made a DSAR. But Ive got no 
evidence to show this call took place, from either MRL or Mr D. MRL have said theyve 
provided copies of all of the calls made to Mr D. And without evidence to show otherwise, on 
the balance of probability, I think its most likely this is the case.
So, I dont think Im able to say for certain that MRL failed to respond to a DSAR Mr D made. 
And Ive seen Mr D has received clarification on all of the information they hold for Mr D in their response to Mr Ds complaint, sent in August 2020. In any event, it is the ICO who 
regulate data protection within the UK and any issues regarding DSARs should be directed 
to them to investigate further.
So, I think Mr D has received an answer to his request after he wrote to MRL in July 2020. 
Because of the above, I dont think MRL have acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need 
to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
providing clarity on how MRL obtained his contact information and why I think MRL were fair 
to contact him directly after the initial call dropped. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Money Redress 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman