DRN-2135361
The complaint
Mr W complains he mis-sold a reviewable whole of life (WOL) policy by Standard Life Client 
Management Limited (the business). 
He says he was led to believe that the premium wouldnt increase by more than 25% of the 
initial premium but is now unhappy about the potential future increases to the policy.  
What happened
In 2008, Mr W was advised to take out a reviewable WOL policy on a standard cover basis. 
The objective was Inheritance Tax (IHT) cover and to provide his son with a lump sum in the 
event of his death. 
The premium was £500 a month (guaranteed) for the first 10 years, for a £328,000 sum 
assured. 
Mr W says that in 2019, after reading the policy documentation, and the annual review 
statement, he raised a complaint about the uncertainty of how much the premiums would 
increase by. He says he missed the same point when he received the 2018 annual review 
statements providing similar information. 
Mr W says he was reassured in an email in January 2008, that the premium increases would 
be capped at 25% of the initial premium, and its on this basis he agreed to take out the 
policy.  
In 2019, Mr W was informed by the policy provider  by way of future projections  that in 
future he may need to pay £2,433 a month if he wanted to maintain the sum assured. Later 
that year, Mr W decided to surrender the policy for £45,169, which is less than what he paid 
in towards it over the years, despite being given the option to maintain the policy for a 
premium that was just higher than what hed been previously paying. 
In other words, the actual increases Mr W was being suggested to make at the time were 
quite small (£520). The £2,433 premium that Mr W was concerned about was very much into 
the future in May 2037. 
The business rejected Mr Ws complaint, saying the terms and conditions made clear the
premiums were reviewable and set no limit on any rises/cost of cover. It acknowledged that
the advisor had referred to a possible limit of 25% but had also explained that the sum
assured would be reduced if necessary  which is how a reviewable whole of life policy 
worked. It also said that although Mr Ws objective was mitigating IHT it was satisfied the 
recommendation  set up on a standard cover basis  was reasonable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mr Ws reviewable WOL policy behaved in the way that it was designed to. 
A failed review is a normal part of a reviewable WOL policy, it doesnt mean that 
Mr W was misled about how the policy would operate.  
The cost of life cover increases with age, and so does the cost of the premium used 
to maintain the specified level of cover. 
Mr W was given the opportunity to increase his cover by 10% (with corresponding 
premium increase) which meant that he knew he might have to increase his premium 
in line with inflation, to maintain the same level of cover.  
Term 18 of the terms and conditions made clear the reviewable nature of the policy, 
and the consumer has a responsibility to read the conditions. He cant see that 
theres been an error in the administration of the policy in terms of how it would 
operate. 
Mr W received the following email from the adviser at the point of sale:
oThat said I have spoken with Skandias National Product Manager for the 
Skandia Plan and he is going to come back to me with some figures based on 
past performance. Clearly this is based on past performance and charges so 
this exercise will be for guideline purposes only.
In relation to maximum increases I was able to ascertain that in the absolute 
worst case scenario should a premium increase in-excess of 25% of the 
premium be required than Skandia would cap the increase at 25% and then 
reduce the sum assured.
The adviser has merely tried to explain the correct position, namely the 
consequences of a review in excess of 25%. If Mr Ws premium increased more than 
25%, one of his options would be to reduce the sum assured. 
Hes cant say that Mr W was given any guarantee or that he was misled about how 
the premium would increase. 
Given Mr Ws previous senior working position within the industry, its unlikely he 
wouldnt have known how a reviewable WOL policy operated.  
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
He was expecting a decision from the ombudsman that dealt with the jurisdiction 
aspect of his complaint. 
The investigator is merely reiterating his view, despite what was said by the 
ombudsman when he was considering a jurisdiction objection. Namely the following 
two paragraphs:
o In an advised sale, it is entirely understandable if a customer is primarily 
guided by what his personal advisor says. So I do not accept that a sentence 
in the terms and conditions is, in itself, sufficient to warn a customer about a 
particular feature of a policy, such as the reviewability of premiums, if an 
advisor says something different or reassures them otherwise.
o In my view, the advisor gave him that reassurance in the email exchange. 
Firstly, by saying absolute worst case scenario should the premium increase 
be in excess of 25% then Skandia would cap the increase at 25% and reduce 
the sum assured, but without crucially spelling out what reducing the sum 
assured might mean.
He was asked to either increase his premiums (from £500 to £2,443 which is more 
than a 25% increase) or accept the sum assured reducing from £325,000 to 
£102,000 at age 81, and £39,000 at aged 86.  
He was given extremely poor advice and the investigator has simply ignored the 
comments from the ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, Im unable to say that 
the business behaved unreasonably.  
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
It's not always possible to have the same ombudsman consider the jurisdiction and merits of 
a complaint. In this instance my colleague only dealt with the issue of jurisdiction  so 
anything said in his decision was specifically in relation to that issue. 
For the record, I agree with my colleagues jurisdiction decision, and I do so for the same 
reasons, Im satisfied that this is a complaint that our service is able to consider. I note that 
my colleague also said:
I should stress that I have solely considered the jurisdiction issue and there
will be a number of issues to be weighed when considering the merits of this complaint.
So, unlike my colleague, Im considering the merits of the complaint, so whether I think the 
business has done anything wrong, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it has. 
Because I dont disagree with the investigators view  which hes maintained since before 
the jurisdiction objection (giving Mr W ample opportunity to respond), Im going to draft a 
final decision on the matter. Im also aware that Mr W has wanted an ombudsmans decision 
since the end of 2019. 
I agree with the business that Mr W will have received policy documentation that made 
reasonably clear the reviewable nature and operation of the policy. Given the nature of his 
complaint, I dont think hes complaining that he didnt know the policy was reviewable. Im 
mindful that he will have received the policy statement and reviews over the years. 
I appreciate Mr W feels that he was misled into taking out this policy, principally based on 
the email he received from the adviser, but on the face of the available evidence, and on 
balance, Im unable to safely conclude that he was misled. 
I note that prior to the advisers email Mr W wrote the following message to the adviser on 25 
January 2008:One feature about the plan has begun to concern me and that follows a critical newspaper 
report regarding non-guaranteed premiums. The plan key features document carries a 
warning that premiums may need to increase after the tenth year to ensure the life and ill 
health cover continues for as long as needed. Whilst you mentioned this, I dont
really think I explored it well enough to understand the implications. What are these 
increases likely to be - what are they today for someone with a similar policy that has 
reached Its tenth year - is there no upper limit on what the premium rises could be? It all 
seems rather uncertain bearing in mind that this plan could last 30 years health permitting. 
Could you please provide more detail. The underline is my emphasis. 
I note Mr W confirmed that he received the illustration & key features document, which set 
out life cover of £328,024 for a projected 57 years at a premium of £500 per month. Given 
the above email, Im satisfied that Mr W knew that the premiums were only guaranteed for 
the first 10 years, and thereafter subject to review and possible increase thereafter. 
I note he says that prior to taking out the policy he became worried about the premium 
increases and thats why he sought reassurance from the adviser  leading to the email in 
question (and what it might mean) very much at the heart of this complaint. 
But unlike Mr W, I dont agree that the email means that the premium increases would be 
capped at 25% in the worst-case scenario. This isnt how the policy operated, and certainly 
nothing within the policy documentation suggested that it did operate in this way. 
I think the advisers email has to be considered within the wider context of the full response 
and key policy documentation provided, rather than in isolation, because the policy is clearly 
only guaranteed for the first 10 years.  
I also note that there was no further explanation from the adviser for what reducing the sum 
assured might mean  but nevertheless Im persuaded that this issue was covered in the 
documentation provided.
I note that Term 18 of the terms and conditions make clear what happens if the premium 
isnt enough to pay the sum assured: 
If, in the opinion of the Actuary to the Company at any review, the performance of units to
which the policy is linked is insufficient to sustain the Sum Assured and other benefits the
Company will reduce the Sum Assured and other benefits provided that Sum Assured after
reduction shall not be less than 75% of the premiums payable under the policy from
commencement to age 75 of the Life Assured."
In my view, none of what Mr W says means that the complaint should be upheld or that hes 
entitled to redress. 
I note the adviser provided the following response to Mr Ws email on 28 January 2008.  
Although its lengthy I think its important to quote a substantial part of it for the purposes of 
giving context: 
Understand your concerns relating to premium Increases. Each plan is very individual 
because charges am (sic) based on numerous factors including the policyholders age. 
health status. Premiums and investment return is based on fund selection. As the choice Is 
vast you can begin to see that it Is very difficult to give you a guide to increases based on 
current investment performance. That said I have spoken with Skandia's National Product 
Manager for the Skandia Plan and he is going to come back to me with some figures based 
on past performance. Clearly this Is based on past performance and charges so this 
exercise will be for guideline purposes only. In relation to maximum Increases I was able to ascertain that in the absolute worst case scenario, should a premium increase In excess of 
25% of the premium required then Skandia would cap the increase at 25% and then reduce 
the sum assured.
I'll email you with what Skandia give me when I get it (name anonymised). however, In the 
meantime I thought it would be useful to revisit and expand on some key points; The 
Skandia Plan has been recommended because it is an investment linked contract that 
provides life cover for the whole of your life whilst also aiming to provide some Investment 
value. This was preferred to the Guaranteed Whole of Life contract that is effectively a term 
assurance policy for the whole of your fife (i.e. no cash in value at any time). This route 
provides a high level of life cover in the event of your death whilst also building up funds 
outside of your estate that could be cashed prior to death should the contract not be 
required.
 In addition. the investment linked approach allows the policy holder to manipulate the sum 
assured anywhere between the Minimum and Maximum Sum Assured. This provides a high 
level of flexibility, that accommodates changes to the policyholders requirements. The 
Minimum Sum Assured Is set at the level required to maintain the qualifying status of the 
plan. (Retaining the qualifying status is Important for income tax purposes). The actual value 
is 75% of the premiums payable to age 75. The Maximum Sum Assured Is essentially the 
maximum level of cover obtainable based on certain assumptions for investment 
performance and charges over a 10 year period.
Your application is being submitted on a Standard Basis. This basis sits between the 
Minimum and Maximum Sum Assured basis and provides life cover to the level that can be 
achieved over the lifetime of the plan assuming an annualised investment return of 6% per 
year. In earlier years the cost of life cover is cheaper than in later years and therefore more 
of your premium is being Invested than will be in later years. The surplus amount in the 
earlier years helps pay for life cover in later years. however, should the plan be terminated 
this fund would be the surrender (cash in) value described earlier.
Your life cover and premium is guaranteed for 10 years unless you wish to change the sum 
assured (again anywhere between the minimum and maximum) . After this period if 
investment performance is lower than 6% p.a. then a premium increase will be required if 
you want to keep the sum assured at the same level. Of course you could elect to keep the 
premium at the same level and revise the sum assured - remember your illustrated sum 
assured Is greater than your Inheritance Tax liability. The underline is my emphasis. 
In the circumstances, its possible that Mr W interpreted the contents of the message in the 
way that he wanted to  in isolation  because he was looking for reassurance rather than to 
seek further clarification or confirmation of what the message might mean in light of the 
policy documentation. But Im not blaming Mr W for this, because Im only here to consider 
what the business has done, and in the circumstances Im unable to say that its done 
anything wrong in light of the full and thorough response it provided in response to Mr Ws 
email. 
I note the adviser also provided a follow up email on 29 January 2008, in which he said:
Good morning (Mr Ws name anonymised). Further to my email of yesterday I have just 
spoken with the National Product Manager for the Skandia Plan. He has looked at a 
theoretical contract based on your fund selections and your age etc. He advises that over 
the last 5 and 10 years contracts with the same approach as yours have achieved sufficient 
investment growth to maintain the premium at the initial level. As indicated, it is not possible 
to provide any more of a steer than this. Hope this is sufficient for you, however, please let 
me know if I can do anything further. My emphasis. In the circumstances, I think what the overall message (considered in context) means is that 
if the premium increases exceeded 25% of the initial (£500) premium, the policy provider will 
offer to reduce the sum assured. I note it was also emphasised that the premiums were only 
guaranteed for the first 10 years which Mr W simply cant dismiss. I also note that no 
guarantees were given by the adviser, as to the level of cover that Mr W might continue to 
receive for the same premium (or a lower premium) and certainly no such guarantees after 
the initial 10 years. 
In other words, I dont think it was ever suggested that if the premiums increased to over 
25% of the initial premiums or more, theyd be capped at 25% and Mr W would continue to 
receive the benefit of having a £328,000 sum assured at the cost of a capped premium. 
I appreciate Mr W interpreted the email message differently, but his interpretation is at odds 
with how a reviewable WOL policy operates and the documentation provided.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr W would continue to receive anywhere near the same level of 
cover for the same premium. 
Notwithstanding the points above, I note it was Mr Ws decision to surrender the policy in 
2019, even though he was given options about maintaining cover  which he took out for IHT 
purposes and to provide a lump sum for his son  by either increasing the premiums (and 
level of cover) or continuing to pay the same/similar premium. He wasnt actually asked to 
pay £2,433 a month to maintain his sum assured. 
Im mindful that in 2018 following a review  immediately after the 10-year guaranteed period 
 Mr W was given the option to increase his premium to £530 a month for £340,980 worth of 
life cover in line with inflation. The projection  which didnt affect him at the time  
suggested that if he continued to pay £500 a month, then from May 2041 the premium would 
increase to £2,657 a month to maintain the sum assured. 
I also note in 2019, Mr W was again given the option to increase his premium to £520 to 
maintain an increased sum assured of £336,323 in line with inflation. The projection 
suggested that if he continued to pay £500 a month, then from May 2037 the premium would 
increase to £2,443 to maintain the sum assured. 
The future projections, which may or may not materialise in due course were based on 
Mr W continuing to pay £500 a month in premium  which he probably wouldnt have done if 
he wanted to maintain his policy (and sum assured) in line with inflation. I note the increase 
was well within 25% of the premium based on Mr Ws interpretation. 
Im mindful that Mr W had no complaint about having to pay a higher premium, as long as it 
didnt become unaffordable which is what he was worried about, but this didnt affect him at 
the time. He chose to surrender the policy, of his own volition, so the business isnt 
responsible for this.  
I appreciate Mr W received less than he paid into the life policy. But this wasnt a traditional 
savings or investment plan, the principle purpose of the policy was to provide life cover with 
an investment element which was dependent on the actual (as opposed to projected) growth 
rates. 
In the event of a valid claim, within the first 10 years of the policy, Mr Ws son wouldve 
received the full £328,000 sum assured, even though Mr W had paid substantially less in 
premiums, thats just how the policy works. I appreciate Mr W will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr W 
what he wants.
I appreciate Mr Ws comments with regards to the business mentioning his previous 
employment within the industry. I wish to make clear that this has played no part in my 
decision not to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman