DRN-1922958
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
handling of a claim she made under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In early 2020, Mrs Js dog was regurgitating and on 13 January she called Red Sands to ask 
about making a possible claim. She wanted to know if the symptoms her dog was 
experiencing was likely to be linked to any claims made in the past, as this might impact the 
contribution towards the vet bills. Mrs J says the adviser told her the symptoms probably 
werent linked.  
Mrs Js claim was logged on 3 February. While the claim was accepted, the full bill of 
£1,917.69 wasnt paid, as Red Sands felt the regurgitation was linked to breathing difficulties 
the dog had experienced earlier in the policy year. The annual limit for each condition was 
£2,000, so Red Sands contributed £242.72 to the bill. 
Mrs J spoke to Red Sands again on 5 February and was told she could have reviewed the 
dogs claims history in the online portal. Mrs J felt she should have been provided with this 
information sooner, saying if she had, she might have made a different decision about 
proceeding with the treatment. She also felt the regurgitation shouldnt have been classified 
as a respiratory distress condition, as she thought it was due to a stomach problem.  
Mrs J asked the vet to share their diagnosis. They did so and said investigations identified a 
section of redundant oesophagus and intermittent gastro-oesophageal reflux. They said 
they didnt think this had been the cause of the dogs prior ill health.  
Mrs J feels if shed been advised to wait a little longer, and until the next renewal year, she 
would have been able to claim in full. She also felt the overall communication from the 
adviser she spoke to was poor, and they should have been able to clarify where things stood 
from the first call. 
Red Sands said the dog had been treated for aspiration pneumonia in August 2019. The bill 
was £1,276.43. The dog was then seen again in September 2019 for the same reason, with 
the bill coming to £384.21. A further claim was made later in September for breathing 
problems, with the bill coming £295.64. It says when Mrs J made the last claim in early 2020, 
its consultant vet concluded the symptoms were all linked to breathing difficulties and 
therefore it only paid up to £2,000 for the policy year, as required under the policy terms. 
Unhappy with the response from Red Sands, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded it was possible if Mrs J had been given the information about the 
pre-authorisation and portal during the first call, she might have waited until the next policy 
year before deciding whether to make the claim during this policy year. He recommended 
that Red Sands pay Mrs J £150 in compensation. Red Sands didnt accept his conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering the calls about making the claim. Its accepted in the call of 13 
January after Mrs J described the symptoms her dog was experiencing; the agent said the 
condition probably wouldnt be linked to respiratory distress. In response to this, Red 
Sands has said its agent arent clinical specialists, but are instead there to offer advice. Im 
satisfied, having listened to the call, the agent was clear about the annual policy limit and 
when the policy would renew.  
I can understand why Mrs J put weight on the diagnosis from her vet. Equally, Im satisfied 
Red Sands is entitled to rely on the complete history of the dogs symptoms and treatment 
when deciding if a claim falls under the annual limit for any one condition. 
Ive considered the summary from Mrs Js vet and that of the consultant vet from Red Sands. 
Having done so, Im more persuaded by the diagnosis of the Red Sands vet and the finding 
theyve made that the conditions were all linked. This is because theyve outlined the history 
of symptoms and treatment, showing how the regurgitation and breathing difficulties can be 
closely connected to the claims made in the past. Whereas Mrs J acknowledged the vet who 
suggested the regurgitation wasnt linked to prior ill health, was a new vet and might not 
have been as familiar with her dogs medical history. Im satisfied Red Sands was entitled to 
apply the policy limit as it has done. It follows, Im not going to require it to pay the balance of 
the vet bill as Mrs J has asked.
Ill turn back to the information given to Mrs J during the first call. Red Sands has 
acknowledged the agent could have directed Mrs J to her policy documentation or the portal 
to review the claims history. Given the number of claims made, I consider it would have been 
reasonable for the adviser to direct Mrs J to the portal so she could review the history of 
claims. Had she done so, its likely Mrs J would have identified some of the symptoms her 
dog was experiencing, and concluded they were linked to treatment received earlier in the 
policy year. 
I recognise the advisers arent clinical specialists. But I think there was more that could have 
been done to explain things more clearly to Mrs J during the first call.  Mrs J called to ask for 
advice, and I think she could have been given more information, such as referring to her 
policy documents or the portal. This would have allowed her to have made a more informed 
decision about when to go ahead with treatment and if it was likely to be covered. Instead, 
based on the call alone I can understand why Mrs J believed the treatment would most likely 
be covered because the adviser said it was probably not linked to the earlier claims. I 
agree a compensation payment of £150 is a fair refection of the worry and confusion caused.  
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Js complaint against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited and 
require it to pay her £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman