DRN-4313844
The complaint
Miss B complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCUL) failed to fully  
refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
In early November 2022, Miss B noticed several transactions that had been made from her 
account that she didnt recognise. She believed the amount totalled £610.00 but this was 
later corrected to £609.38. She notified LCCUL about them and they advised that her card 
had been cancelled and a replacement ordered for her.
Over several months, Miss B attempted to reclaim those funds taken from her account. She 
repeatedly asked LCCUL for an update on their investigation into the disputed transactions 
without much success.
Miss B made a complaint to LCCUL and waited a few months for a response. Eventually in 
March 2023, Miss B brought her issue to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review. 
LCCUL were asked to provide their file for the complaint raised by Miss B. LCCUL sent 
limited information concerning the complaint and in May 2023 advised our service that theyd 
made a refund for £569.38 to Miss Bs account.
Once the refund was paid, Miss B noticed that one of the disputed transactions for £40 had 
been missed by LCCUL. 
An investigator reviewed Miss Bs complaint and commented that the lack of information 
from LCCUL made it difficult to investigate. As they werent able to show the disputed 
transactions had been authenticated  Miss B was due a full refund. The investigator 
recommended that LCCUL make the outstanding payment of £40 to Miss B including adding 
interest at 8% for the period of time Miss B was without her funds. Also to pay Miss B £100 
for the stress caused to her by their handling of the issue. 
LCCULs responded to say theyd sent documents and wanted to know what specific 
information was required. The investigator repeated what information was required from 
LCCUL and gave them a date to send it to our service. LCCUL later responded to say they 
had nothing more to add to the complaint. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that LCCUL can hold Miss B liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
LCCUL can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss B authorised 
the transactions, but LCCUL cannot say that the use of the payment details conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless LCCUL can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. 
As no authentication data was provided by LCCUL, its been difficult to determine what 
happened with Miss Bs account. LCCUL themselves appear to have accepted Miss B 
wasnt responsible because theyve subsequently made a partial refund to her. So, based on 
Miss Bs claim and LCCULs actions, Im satisfied that those transactions reported by Miss B 
were unauthorised for the purposes of this complaint.
When they refunded Miss B, one payment that was originally reported by her wasnt included 
in the refund. So, LCCUL should now refund Miss B the missing £40 from her original claim.
Despite what LCCUL have claimed, the information provided by them is sparse. It hasnt 
been possible to determine what steps they took once Miss B notified them about her losses 
in November last year. Its apparent that Miss B asked LCCUL for help and received little in 
return. The refund was only made once she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and even then it was only partially refunded. 
LCCULs response to Miss B (or lack thereof) made her situation worse. I accept they 
werent responsible for the disputed transactions themselves, but from the evidence, it 
appears they failed to act in a timely manner, dragging out unnecessarily the claim by Miss 
B. LCCUL caused Miss B additional stress and inconvenience and should now pay her £100 
for the impact of their handling of her situation.
Putting things right
LCCUL to pay Miss B the outstanding £40 from her claim, adding 8% simple interest to the 
total of her losses from the date she notified LCCUL of the loss to the date the refund(s) are 
paid (most have already been repaid). Im assigning 8% interest here because Miss B was 
without those funds for a considerable time and lost the opportunity to use them for other 
purposes. LCCUL are also to pay Miss B £100 for the handling of her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and London Community Credit Union Limited 
are instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman