DRN-1926520
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) gave 
him incorrect information about his account.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card with Amex. This was linked to an airline. For every pound spent on 
the card, Mr G earned points that could be redeemed as payment towards the airlines 
services. These points were transferred from Amex to his airline account on a monthly basis. 
Towards the end of 2019 Mr G raised concerns that the points he was accumulating, werent 
being properly transferred to his account with the airline. Amex looked into this and a letter 
was sent to Mr G that explained it was having problems linking his Amex account with his 
account with the airline as his details were different.
On receiving the letter Mr G called Amex to complain. He said his details were the same on 
both accounts. And there had been no problems in the past, so couldnt understand why this 
had occurred now. The call handler advised Mr G that he should contact the airline directly 
as it was the one that had raised the problem. Mr G was unhappy with this and a manager 
called him the following day to say he would raise the request with the airline himself. 
Mr G made a complaint as he said his two accounts had the same details so couldnt 
understand why the points didnt transfer. He said he had received poor customer service 
from Amex and as a result he had to make numerous phone calls to the airline and Amex.
Amex didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said there had been no bank error and the points 
hadnt transferred because of a negative balance. Further it said the letter about Mr Gs 
Amex account not matching his account with the airline had been sent in error.
Mr G wasnt happy with this as he said he had been told on the phone he was owed 3,000 
points. And he said the poor customer service he had received had caused him distress and 
inconvenience as he had had to make additional phone calls. He brought the complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that although Amex had given unclear information, it had showed that Mr G wasnt 
owed any points. So he didnt think it should do anything differently.
Mr G disagreed with this. He said that as he was told he was owed 3,000 points, this should 
be honoured. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is concerned that his points havent been transferred correctly to the airline. He is also 
unhappy with the customer service Amex provided, including wrong information given. I have 
addressed each point in turn.
Amex has provided statements for Mr Gs card. From these I can see that in July 2019 
around 10,000 points were transferred to Mr Gs airline account. However shortly after this 
he received a refund to the card. Amex has explained that when a refund is received, the 
associated points earned from that spend are deducted from the customers overall points 
balance. At this time, Mr G had no points. His points balance therefore went into a negative 
amount.
For the next few months the points balance remained at a negative amount. This meant that 
no points were transferred to his airline account between August 2019 and January 2020 
when his points balance went back into a positive amount.  
So from looking at the statements I am satisfied that Mr G hasnt lost out on any points he is 
entitled to. I can see the points he has earned have been transferred correctly to his airline 
account. 
I have also considered the service provided by Amex. From looking at the series of events I 
agree that Amex has given incorrect information that would have caused confusion. It initially 
told Mr G that the reason points hadnt transferred was due to the accounts not being linked, 
It is now clear that this was incorrect. I can understand this would have been frustrating. 
However it isnt the role of this service to punish businesses for making mistakes. Instead it 
is for us to put things right for the customer. So I have considered the impact of this mistake 
on Mr G. He has said he had to make a number of phone calls to try and get more 
information. And he was promised an additional 3,000 points which was incorrect.
Mr G initially called Amex to query the letter on 18 December 2019. This is when he was told 
to contact the airline. He was then called the following day by a manager at Amex who said 
he would contact the airline on Mr Gs behalf. When he raised a complaint, Amex responded 
before the end of December 2019 with its final response. 
So considering Mr G was only under the impression that he would need to contact the airline 
for one day, I dont think this would have had a significant impact or caused significant 
distress. And he received an explanation within a couple of weeks. So although I agree the 
incorrect information was unhelpful, Amex has now provided a full explanation of what went 
wrong. And I think this is enough to make up for the mistake.
Mr G says he was told on the phone that he was owed 3,000 extra points. Although I can 
appreciate it was disappointing when he found out this wasnt the case, I dont think that this 
means Amex should credit Mr G with this number of points. As I have said above, Im 
satisfied that Amex has now provided a detail explanation for the mistake and shown that 
Mr G has received all the points he is entitled to. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Amex 
to credit him with extra points.
So although I appreciate Mr Gs disappointed I think Amex has now provided a clear 
explanation of what went wrong and this is sufficient. And although it did give incorrect 
information, I dont think this had a significant impact on Mr G. So I wont require Amex to do 
anything differently. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I wont require American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman