DRN-3410046
The complaint
Mr M says Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited acted unreasonably in not paying a claim 
he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was written-off in an accident. Accrediteds engineer noted that there were 
modifications to its lights and exhaust pipe. It said had Mr M declared the modifications when 
he bought the policy, it wouldnt have offered him cover. Mr M said he hadnt made any 
modifications and he didnt know the car had been modified when he bought it. Accredited 
declined the claim but allowed Mr M to add a new car to the policy. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He thought Mr M had answered the 
question about modifications to the best of his knowledge. He didnt think they would have 
been obvious to an average consumer. So he thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
Accredited to pay the claim. Accredited said the car didnt look like a standard model. And it 
thought Mr M would have looked at others of that type before buying it, so in its view, he 
should have realised it was modified.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems Accredited considered whether Mr M had made a qualifying misrepresentation in 
not advising it about the cars modifications. It told him its underwriters would not have 
offered him cover had all the facts been known when he bought the policy. 
In those circumstances, an insurer may have the right to avoid the policy altogether, if it can 
show that the requirements set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) apply. Accredited may or may not have been able to 
do that. But it chose to allow the policy to continue, thereby affirming it. Once an insurer has 
done that, we dont think its fair to the consumer for it to change its mind later. 
 
The policys general conditions state that cover only applies if the details set out in the 
policys statement of fact agreed to by a consumer are accurate, to the best of the 
consumers belief. Mr M agreed to the details in it that said the car had no modifications. 
Although that wasnt correct, Mr M says that to the best of his belief, it wasnt modified.
 
Ive seen the images of the car, and I dont think most reasonable consumers would have 
noted that the lights had been modified. I think most of them would have noted that there 
were two exhaust pipes  and that they were larger than in a standard car. But this was a 
sports model, and I dont think its unusual for them to have such features as standard. 
  
The advert for the car made no reference to modifications. Mr M says the seller didnt 
mention them  and the specification Ive seen for the car didnt refer to the exhaust either. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to take the car on face value and to assume it was 
a standard sports model. Accredited thinks he would have looked at other cars of the same 
type previously, but theres no evidence of that. And if he did, from what Ive seen, most of 
the photos used in adverts dont show the cars rear. 
 
Mr M only had a duty to provide accurate details to Accredited to the best of his belief, in line 
with the policys general conditions. I dont think Accredited has been able to show that he 
didnt do so. As I dont think Mr M breached the general conditions, I think Accredited should 
settle his claim, in line with all other policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited to settle the claim (in line with all remaining policy terms and conditions). It should 
add interest to any sum paid for the car, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the 
claim was declined to the date of settlement.
If Accredited thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so Mr M can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman