DRN-2339534
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly. Hes also 
complained about the level of interest that was charged on his loans.  
What happened
Mr A was given five loans by Loans2Go between in June 2015 and June 2019. I understand 
the first four loans were logbook loans, each secured against a vehicle that Mr A owned.
A summary of Mr As borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Instalments Amount
1 19/06/2015 18 £750.00
2 16/02/2016 18 £2,000.00
3 18/05/2016 18 £3,000.00
4 28/09/2016 18 £1,800.00
5 17/06/2019 78wks £800.00
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Mr As complaint 
about the first loan should be upheld. But she did think Loans2Go shouldnt have provided 
Mr A with loans 2 to 5 and she asked the lender to put things right. Loans2Go accepted the 
adjudicators assessment about loan 5 but it didnt agree with her assessment of loans 2 to 
4. As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to make a final decision 
about the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr As complaint.
I think there are overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
A would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown each time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks each time to satisfy itself 
that Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable way. There was no set list of checks that 
Loans2Go had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things, such as the 
loan amount, the repayment amounts and the consumers overall financial circumstances. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr A. 
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks each time?
Loan 1
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Mr A which included 
asking for details of his income and expenditure. It also reviewed some payslips and 
acquired a credit check. Ive seen only a summary of the information that Loans2Go 
gathered at the time, but I havent seen anything which I think ought reasonably to have 
caused Loans2Go any additional concerns about Mr As financial position before he took the 
first loan.
On balance, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, for Loans2Go to ask Mr A for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first loan. I dont think greater 
checks were appropriate at the time. I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Loans2Go to have carried out more in-depth checks at this point - for example, by asking to 
see copies of Mr As bank statements. So Loans2Go would not have been aware if Mr A 
might have any difficulty repaying his loan in a sustainable manner. Taking everything Ive 
seen into account, I am not upholding Mr As complaint about the first loan.
Loans 2 - 3
Loans2Go has only been able to provide limited information about the checks that it carried 
out for the second and third loans. This is understandable, given the time that has passed. On the face of it, Loans2Go may have calculated that Mr A had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the monthly repayments. But I think Loans2Go focussed its calculation of whether 
the loans were affordable for Mr A on a pounds and pence basis. And as Ive already 
explained, the lender was required to establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet 
his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this 
basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their 
repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Mr A was increasing the amount he borrowed for the second and third loan. Loans2Go was 
providing Mr A with expensive loans, repayable over an extended period and the rules and 
guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the 
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial 
situation. Mr A also took his third loan on the same day that he repaid his second loan 
substantially early  which could have indicated that he was having difficulty managing his 
finances and needed to refinance rapidly.
Overall, I cant say from the limited information that Ive seen, that I think the checks that 
Loans2Go carried out before it agreed to provide the second and third loans were 
reasonable or proportionate at the time. But as Ive explained, I think in the circumstances 
Loans2Go would have wanted to gain a thorough understanding of Mr As financial position 
before he took these loans.
Loan 4
Loans2Go has been able to provide the credit report it acquired when Mr A applied for his 
fourth loan. There is a small amount of adverse information on the report, which I think the 
lender might have expected to see, given the type of lending. Mr A applied for loan 4 about 
10 days after repaying his third loan  again substantially early. 
Loans2Go says that Mr A made all payments on time and settled all his loans early. And that 
there were no glaring indications on his credit file of any potential inability to keep up with 
the contractual payments. I accept this might have been the case, and that the amount Mr A 
was borrowing with the fourth loan had reduced. I also accept the information in the credit 
report might not have raised concerns for the lender. But I think Mr As emerging pattern of 
settling his loans early, only to return and borrow again shortly afterwards should have been 
of some concern to Loans2Go as it could have indicated that Mr A might be finding it difficult 
to manage his financial situation. Despite Mr As apparent disposable income, he still had a 
need, after three previous loans which hed repaid early, to take a fourth high cost loan over 
an extended term.
So by the fourth loan, I think Loans2Go ought to have questioned why, after being able to 
repay each of his previous loans early, Mr A still had a continuing need to rapidly borrow 
further high cost lending. And I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that for its 
checks to be reasonable and proportionate, it needed a better understanding of Mr As true 
current financial position - to ensure that he could sustainably repay his fourth loan over the 
whole loan term.
Overall, in the circumstances, I think it would have been proportionate for the lender to 
obtain a more in depth understanding of Mr As true financial position before it agreed to provide loans 2 to 4 - to reasonably establish for itself whether continued lending was 
appropriate for this consumer at the time. 
I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have taken further steps each time to independently 
verify Mr As circumstances. So as well as asking Mr A about his income and expenditure, 
and acquiring a credit report, I think Loans2Go should have looked further into his financial 
circumstances each time   for example by asking to see bank statements.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mr A has provided us with copies of his bank statements leading up to his applications for 
loans 2 to 4. Of course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Loans2Go 
had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks each time, I think its likely it 
would have discovered more about Mr As financial position. In particular I think it more likely 
than not Loans2Go would have realised that Mr A was regularly gambling considerable 
amounts of money.  I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that Mr A was most 
likely borrowing as a result of his gambling  and that he would also most likely need to 
borrow elsewhere to repay his loans. I would have expected Loans2Go to realise that it was 
unlikely that Mr A would be able to sustainably repay his loans. So it ought reasonably to 
have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide these loans to him. 
In summary:
I dont think Loans2Go was wrong to provide the first loan to Mr A. So I am not upholding his 
complaint about loan 1.
But I dont think Loans2Go made a fair lending decision when it agreed to provide loans 2, 3 
or 4 to Mr A. So Im upholding his complaint about these loans.
Loan 5
Loans2Go has already accepted the adjudicators view that it should not have provided loan 
5 to Mr A. So I dont need to consider this loan any further, except to set out below what 
needs to happen next.
Did Loans2Go treat Mr A unfairly in any other way?
Mr A has complained about the interest rate on his loans. However, I think its likely that Mr 
A was aware he was taking high cost loans at the time and I think the rate of interest being 
charged on his loans was in line with industry practice at the time. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Loans2Go treated Mr A unfairly in 
some other way. 
But I dont think it should have agreed to provide loans 2, 3 or 4 to him. And Loans2Go has 
already accepted it ought not to have provided loan 5 to him. So Loans2Go needs to put 
things right in respect of loans 2 to 5.
  
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on loans 
that shouldnt have been provided to him.
To put things right, Loans2Go should: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 2 to 5 and treat all the payments Mr 
A made as payments towards the combined capital amount;
If Mr A has made payments above this combined capital amount then these should 
be refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date the complaint is settled*;
If reworking the account still leaves an outstanding amount of capital to be paid, then 
Loans2Go should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions;
Loans2Go might have already returned the relevant logbooks to Mr A, but if it has not 
done this, it should cancel the relevant bills of sale and return the V5 documents to 
Mr A once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
Remove any negative information from Mr As credit file in relation to loans 2 to 5, 
once settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr As complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman