DRN-1489686
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has applied a number of £6 charges at times 
when he's received a payment into his account from his overseas employer. He says any 
related charges are paid by his employer so asks that these be refunded to him.
What happened
Mr H works for an overseas company. And when it needs to repay him his expenses, these 
are credited to his savings account with Barclays.
But Mr H complained as he noticed that there were a number of occasions that Barclays had 
applied a charge of £6 when he'd received a payment from his employer. He didn't think this 
was right as his employer paid any related charges for such a transfer and this was noted on 
the payment instruction notice from his employer's bank.
Barclays said that all inward international payments it receives which are over £100 incur a 
£6 charge. It looked at the relevant payment details when this had applied to Mr H and said 
that the correct process had been followed as the payment instruction from the sending bank 
said that the charges should be shared. It said it wasn't responsible for the payment 
instructions that are applied by other banks before a payment reaches it.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that the £6 charge had been applied in accordance with the account terms and conditions 
and was shown in Barclays's tariff of charges. She said that the costs of the transfers where 
the charge applied were shared between the sender and the receiver. The investigator said 
Barclays had suspended this charge for a period between April 2018 and June 2019, as it 
had identified an issue and wanted to make sure this didnt affect its customers. So the 
charge hadnt applied to any payments Mr H received during that time.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that hed had six charges out of 47 
payments of over £100 that hed received since 2004, and the charges started applying in
2015. He had confirmation that any charges were paid by his employer and said Barclays 
had made a mistake on these six occasions.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019. In summary, I said I 
didn't think it should be upheld.
I reviewed the two payment instructions from Mr Hs employers bank that he provided.
In relation to the charges, these said that they should be borne by the client  so Mr Hs 
employer. But I also compared these with the instructions Barclays received for those two 
particular payments, and both showed that the charges were to be shared, indicated by the 
abbreviation SHA. Barclays has told us this is defined as SHA (shared) means you only 
pay your bank's outgoing transfer charge. We receive your payment minus the correspondent (intermediary) bank charges. So here Mr Hs employer would only pay their 
banks outgoing charge for the transfer; the incoming charge would then be paid by Mr H.
I considered the details of payment instructions where the incoming amount was over £100 
but no charge was applied to Mr Hs account. And I could see that this had been the case for 
many of the payments Mr H received. I reviewed the details of three separate instructions 
where there was no charge. And each of these showed the abbreviation of OUR, rather 
than 'SHA', relating to the charges, so that the sender would pay all the related charges.
I thought this explained why the £6 charge had applied to some payments and not others, as 
Barclays is reliant the instructions relating to the payment that it receives from the sending 
bank, and this includes how the related charges are to be paid.
I said I appreciated why Mr H may feel that this £6 charge has been applied randomly and 
wrongly by Barclays. But, from the information I'd seen, I didnt think that was the case.
Aside from the period when Barclays suspended charging the £6 fee for inward payments, 
then it seemed that the £6 charge was applied when the payment instructions Barclays 
received showed that the charges were to be shared. So I didn't think Barclays had acted 
wrongly in applying the £6 charge on the occasions that it did.
The responses
Barclays replied to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mr H didn't respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor Barclays have made any further comments in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I reached in it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman