DRN-3138866
The complaint
 Mrs G complains that FCE Bank Plc took a payment from her account which was not due 
and took her over her overdraft limit. 
What happened
 In April 2021 Mrs G acquired a new car and part exchanged her old one. Both were funded 
by finance agreements with FCE. The direct debit payment for the new agreement was due 
on 28th of each month beginning May. FCE issued a welcome letter for the new agreement 
on 3 May and a closure letter for the old agreement on 26 May. 
On 1 June, while Mrs G was on holiday she received a text from her bank to let her know 
that she would exceed her overdraft limit if funds were not deposited by 2.30 pm. This was 
because FCE had taken payments for both the old and new agreements. 
Mrs G contacted the dealer which in turn contacted FCE. I gather it called Mrs G the 
following day and apologised. Mrs G says she was told that the overpayment on her old car 
would be refunded and the new payment would be recalled.
On 7 June Mrs G noted that both payments had been refunded to her account, but the new 
one had not been taken. She spoke to FCE and says she was told the payment for the mew 
agreement would go out on 17 June. 
Mrs G was upset by the confusion and explained that she had been caused anguish and 
asked FCE to compensate her and pay the costs she incurred. FCE said the dealership 
hadnt settled her old agreement and this resulted in a further payment being taken. It 
apologised for any confusion but said it had not made any error.
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He said FCE should compensate Mrs G and suggested £225. FCE said it had 
resolved the issue at the first point of contact on 2 June and only a small monetary award 
was merited.
Our investigator suggested £75. Mrs G didnt agree and said she had been left short of 
money during her holiday. She said FCE had taken both payments and she had spent a day 
sorting it out when she should have been enjoying her holiday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate the strength of feeling Mrs G has expressed in her complaint, but I dont 
consider an award of more than £75 is appropriate. 
It seems FCE was unaware that the old agreement had been terminated and so it took the 
next payment due. That is regrettable. It also sought the new payment since that agreement 
had been set up on its systems. The effect was to take Mrs G over her overdraft limit and her 
bank rejected the payment claim. The net effect was that Mrs G didnt go over her overdraft 
limit at the end of the day and she has explained that she incurred no charges as a result of 
the double claim.
That means FCE is not liable to cover any costs for Mrs G. As the direct debit was returned it 
appears that at the end of the day she was not taken over her limit.  
However, I agree that she was caused distress and some inconvenience and for a period 
she would not have been aware of the state of her account. It is regrettable that this 
occurred while she was on holiday and she had to take some time to get it resolved. As soon 
as FCE was aware of the issue it dealt with it promptly. I would mention that the dealership 
and FCE are separate companies and I am only dealing with the role of FCE.  
I have noted that FCE addressed the issue as soon as it was notified and I consider that was 
a fair response. While it is arguable that FCE did little or nothing wrong I think that Mrs G 
was distressed by the events and particularly so on her holiday. While the dealer may have 
contributed ultimately FCE is responsible for the agreements. Overall, I accept a degree of 
upset and inconvenience and for that I think £75 is fair and reasonable compensation.
Putting things right
 FCE should compensate Mrs G.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank Plc to pay Mrs G £75 
for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman