DRN-4030320
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs C have a single trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes and paid an additional premium for cruise cover. They  
went on a cruise with departure and return dates of 16 July 2022 and 23 July 2022 
respectively. 
Mr and Mrs C made a claim against their policy in relation to missed port stops.       
Great Lakes declined their claim. It said that what happened isnt covered by the policy 
as theres no cover if theres a stop at an alternative, unscheduled port. Great Lakes said 
that the documents Mr and Mrs C provided indicate that two of the port stops were 
different from that which was scheduled but dont show that any of the ports were 
missed. Great Lakes said that it has requested further documentation and, under the 
terms of the policy, Mr and Mrs C are required to provide that. 
Mr and Mrs C say that the cruise provider replaced one port stop with an alternative port 
stop, left earlier than planned following another port stop and missed five scheduled port 
stops. They are aware that the policy doesnt cover a change of port but say that     
Great Lakes has ignored their claim for missed port stops. Mr and Mrs C say that they 
provided Great Lakes with the confirmed itinerary on booking the cruise and the itinerary 
provided by the cruise provider showing which ports were visited. They want              
Great Lakes to settle their claim and pay them compensation for their stress and upset. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs C havent provided evidence 
that port stops were missed. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. They said that they have provided 
evidence which shows that the ports they visited were clearly different from their 
itinerary. They say that other insurers have paid this claim. The investigator considered 
what Mr and Mrs C said but didnt change his view. Mr and Mrs C asked that an 
ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Section 19: Cruise (optional)
[]
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total per 
Insured Journey, up to the sums insured shown in the Table of Benefits as a result of:
A. Missed port
Your cruise ship being unable to make a scheduled port stop due to:
1. bad weather; or
2. time-table restrictions
What is covered
1. A missed port benefit for each scheduled port at which Your cruise ship failed to stop.
What is not covered
1. Any claim if Your cruise ship stopped at an alternative unscheduled port or if You were 
offered financial compensation, including on-board credit.
2. Any claim if Your cruise ships scheduled tender service was unable to transport You 
ashore.
3. Anything mentioned in the General Policy Exclusions.
The table of benefits shows that the sum insured for Mr and Mrs Cs policy for a missed port 
is £150 per port up to £1,500, with an excess of £95.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding      
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy provides a missed port benefit for each scheduled port stop 
at which their cruise ship failed to stop due to bad weather or timetable restriction. 
As Mr and Mrs C are aware, the policy doesnt cover them if their cruise ship 
stopped at an alternative, unscheduled port stop.  
I think theres been confusion here about what amounts to a scheduled port stop.                 
Mr and Mrs C have provided their booking confirmation, which includes their 
itinerary. The itinerary shows four port stops, not including the port of embarkation 
and disembarkation. It also shows five places where theres cruise by or    
Cruising Only. Theres no definition of scheduled port stop in the policy, so Ive 
proceeded on the basis of the ordinary, natural meaning, which I think means a 
port where its planned that the cruise ship will stop. I dont think that the cruise 
ship was scheduled to stop at ports it was cruising by. Mr and Mrs C have provided a letter to them from the cruise provider which says 
that, due to adverse weather conditions, it cancelled a port stop on 20 July 2022 
and replaced it with an alternative port stop and made an earlier than planned 
departure from a scheduled port stop on 21 July 2022. I dont think that Great 
Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the exclusion in the policy in 
relation to alternative, unscheduled port stops. And theres no cover in the policy 
for earlier than planned departures from scheduled port stops. 
Mr and Mrs C have also provided a screen shot of a letter dated 22 July 2022, 
addressed to a third party but which relates to a cruise with the same holiday 
number and dates as their cruise. That letter confirms that the cruise had four 
scheduled port stops (excluding the port of embarkation and disembarkation) and 
that due to adverse weather conditions, one port stop was replaced with an 
alternative port stop and the departure from another port stop was earlier than 
planned. Thats consistent with the letter the cruise provider sent to Mr and Mrs C. 
It doesnt show that five scheduled port stops were missed. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C may have been disappointed that their cruise ship 
didnt cruise by the ports shown on their itinerary. But thats not something thats 
covered by their policy. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs C 
have shown that their cruise ship was unable to make scheduled port stops due to 
bad weather or timetable restrictions, except for the port stop that was replaced 
with an alternative port stop and which is excluded in the policy. So, I dont think 
that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim.  
Mr and Mrs C say that other insurers paid this claim made by others but Im 
considering Mr and Mrs Cs claim against their policy terms and conditions. Other 
claims may have been considered by other insurers against different policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman