The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Darroch Ltd trading as Connect Financial Services (Connect) 
has failed to provide a service to them since their adviser left the business, despite them 
being charged for ongoing advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R received investment advice from an adviser who left the employment of 
Connect in 2016. Mr R says that when he queried the situation with Connect, he was told 
that it had been assumed that they had ceased dealing with Connect at the same time.
Mr R says he was introduced to a new adviser at Connect and a financial review took place 
in April 2019. But there were then several missed appointments and Mr R has been unable 
to contact the new adviser.
Mr and Mrs R are therefore unhappy to have incurred ongoing advice charges since 2016 for 
a service that hasnt been provided.
Our investigator asked Connect on several occasions for a response to Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint, but none was provided. She said Mr and Mrs R had provided evidence that she 
found compelling. She believed what they had said was likely to have been accurate, so she 
didnt feel that Connect had treated Mr and Mrs R fairly.
The investigator recommended that Connect refund any ongoing advice charges incurred by 
Mr and Mrs R since 2016 and waive any fee that might be applied by Connect if they chose 
to end the relationship.
No response was received from Connect, so the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of Connects failure to provide any submissions in respect of the complaint, theres 
little I can usefully add to the reasoning and conclusion set out by the investigator. It strikes 
me as a fair and reasonable assessment of the matter. Having considered Mr and Mrs Rs 
submissions, I agree they appear entirely plausible and support a conclusion that Mr and 
Mrs R should be compensated in the manner suggested.
DRN-1741338Putting things right
Connect must refund to Mr and Mrs R any charges theyve incurred relating to ongoing 
service since the date of departure of their previous adviser in 2016. It must also waive any 
charges that might apply to moving their business elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Darroch Ltd 
trading as Connect Financial Services to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs R as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman