DRN-3130612
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr H was given a fixed term loan by 118 118 Money. He took the loan out on 23 January 
2020 for £3000 to be repaid over a year at a monthly repayment of £362.59.
118 118 Money then rescheduled the loan on 28 August 2020 after Mr H requested a 
temporary payment freeze for 3 months. The monthly repayment went up to £436.72. The 
loan is outstanding.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the
checks 118 118 Money had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. She also felt 
after looking at what 118 118 Money would have had in front of it, that it made a fair lending 
decision. So, she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He said if 118 118 Money had carried our proper 
checks it would have seen that he was using the money for this loan to pay off another loan. 
He said the income he stated of £3500, averaged at £2700 and the credit commitments he 
held at the time were a lot higher than £490 a month. He says one loan repayment was 
around £426 on its own. He says 118 118 Money didnt do enough checks and if it had done 
so it would have seen that the loan was unaffordable for him.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When 118 118 Money lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC).
118 118 Money was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that 118 118 Money had to consider both the risk to it that Mr H wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr H of not being able to make 
these repayments. In particular, 118 118 Money had to consider Mr Hs ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without Mr 
H having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other repayment 
he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  118 118 Money needed to take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr Hs 
current income. It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate of, Mr Hs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to 
the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length 
of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, Ive considered 
the following questions:
- Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
- Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed to the loan. It asked 
him for his monthly income and then verified this amount using an online verification tool. It 
then asked him questions about expenditure. It finally then carried out a credit search to 
check against any existing credit commitments.
Mr H was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period initially, of a year. So, I think it is right that 118 118 
Money wanted to gather, and independently check (regarding his income and through the 
credit search), some detailed information about Mr Hs financial circumstances before it 
agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its 
checks were proportionate. I say this as this was the first loan that Mr H had requested from 
118 118 Money and although there was one default registered on his credit file, this was 
from several years previous to the application date. Mr Hs declared credit commitments 
would also seem to be around the same as the commitments that were given in its credit 
checks. So, I think it could have some assurance about what Mr H had told it.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
118 118 Money gathered from Mr H to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to 
be given the loan.
I can see that 118 118 Money had worked out Mr H had enough disposable income to be 
able to comfortably afford the repayments. The credit search results wouldnt have shown any concerns to 118 118 Money from what I have seen. From the information it gathered, I 
think it would have been apparent to 118 118 Money that the loan was affordable and there 
was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it he was struggling to 
manage his finances.
Mr H has said that his income figure averaged out at a lower monthly amount than he 
declared to it. But I can see that 118 118 Money used an online verification tool to verify 
what he had told it. I think the steps it took for the reasons I have already stated were 
proportionate on this occasion. Mr H also said he felt the credit commitments he was paying 
was overall a lot higher than the figure he declared. But I can see from the credit search 
results that 118 118 Money had in front of it that the amount he declared was around the 
same as the credit commitments showing on them. 
So, overall, I agree with our investigator. I dont think 118 118 Moneys proportionate checks 
would have suggested that Mr H would have problems repaying this loan. So, I dont think 
118 118 Money was wrong on this occasion to give the loan to Mr H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman