DRN-3022093
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyds hasnt settled a claim under his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 10 February 2020. It covered a trip 
between 1 April 2020 and 28 May 2020. The insurer was a Lloyds underwriter.
Mr M was due to fly abroad on 1 April 2020 and go on a sailing trip between 3 April 2020 and 
26 May 2020. But on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel. The country Mr M was flying to, and where he was due to start 
his sailing trip, imposed restrictions on travel requirements for people travelling from the UK 
effective from 18 March 2020 onwards, and further stricter restrictions took effect on 
26 March 2020. 
The airline cancelled Mr Ms flight on or around the 25 March 2020. As he wasnt able to 
travel abroad, Mr M couldnt join the sailing trip. He made a claim to Lloyds for the cost of 
his sailing trip, up to the relevant benefit limit, as he hasnt been able to get a refund from the 
operator. Even if Mr M wouldve been able to fly to his intended destination, he wouldnt 
have been board the sailing vessel because it wasnt allowed to port. Mr M says the sailing 
vessel, along with its crew, were quarantined. And as policy covered cancellation due to 
quarantine, he says Lloyds should pay his claim.
Lloyds declined Mr Ms claim. It said that the circumstances of his loss didnt fall under the 
specified occurrences under the policy terms and conditions. It said Mr M wasnt quarantined 
in the UK, and it didnt think the situation with the sailing vessel meant the quarantine term 
applied. Mr M didnt agree, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr M was unable to go on 
his trip because of the FCDO advice. She acknowledged that the policy didnt provide 
cancellation cover due to a change in FCDO advice  but she also noted that the policy 
excluded cover if Mr M travelled against this advice. Our investigator didnt think it was fair 
that the policy didnt cover Mr M if he didnt travel, but it also didnt cover him if he did travel. 
This was because she didnt think Lloyds had done enough to highlight these terms to Mr M, 
and due to the significant imbalance this created between Lloyds and Mr M. 
Our investigator was also satisfied Mr Ms losses were irrecoverable. Overall, she thought 
Lloyds should consider Mr Ms claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy, 
and it should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Lloyds said it wouldnt disagree with our assessment on Mr Ms losses being irrecoverable. 
But other than that, Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, Lloyds 
said the following:
It hadnt relied on the exclusion on a policyholder travelling against FCDO advice. 
Instead, it declined it because the circumstances here didnt meet any of the 
specified occurrences that the policy covered.
It asked for the evidence to show that Mr M wouldve bought a different policy had he 
realised this policy didnt provide cover if the FCDO advice changed.
It didnt agree that a failure to highlight the FCDO exclusion created a significant 
imbalance in the rights between the parties.
A failure to highlight an exclusion should only prevent the insurer from relying on it, 
and not result in an extension of cover beyond the premium paid.
The issue here wasnt what restrictions the FCDO had placed on international travel 
 rather, it was the interpretation of the word quarantine.
Mr M wouldve been aware of the potential risk of Covid-19, and the risk of the FCDO 
advice changing, when he bought the policy on 10 February 2020.
It was the lockdowns in the UK, and in the country where Mr M was due to fly to, that 
prompted Mr M to claim  rather than the change in FCDO advice.
Up until his claim, Mr M couldve cancelled his policy and received a full refund, 
which he couldve used to buy a more suitable policy.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
The circumstances leading to Mr Ms claim
As our investigator explained, we have an inquisitorial remit. I know Mr M has raised specific 
arguments why he thinks Lloyds should pay his claim, and Lloyds has addressed this 
specifically  how the term quarantine should be interpreted. But fundamentally, Mr M is 
unhappy that Lloyds has declined his claim. So, thats the complaint Ive looked at. Having 
done that, I dont think I need to make a finding on the arguments about quarantine. Thats 
because I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr M fairly for another reason.
Ive thought about what both parties have said about the reason for Mr Ms claim. I can see 
Lloyds has now said this was due to government lockdowns. But in its final response letter 
to Mr M Lloyds said the reason he couldnt travel was due to the various travel restrictions 
put in place by governments due to Covid-19. 
Overall, at the point when Mr M couldnt go on his trip, the FCDO advice against 
international travel was in place. So, I do think this is relevant to Mr Ms claim. 
 
The policy documentation
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.The Insurance Product Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. It doesnt refer to 
any exclusions for travel against FCDO advice.
The policy terms and conditions say on page 18 under General Exclusions that:
21. Travelling to a country where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised 
against all but essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim?
I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. Ill explain why.
As Ive explained, I think Mr Ms trip was cancelled because the FCDO advised against all 
but essential travel to the destination he was due to travel to, to start his sailing trip. Having 
looked at the chronology of events I can see that the flight, and the trip, were cancelled 
following the change in FCDO advice. Im satisfied that this was the main reason for the trip 
being cancelled as Mr M was unable to travel to his destination to meet the boat. Had he 
done so, hed have been travelling against FCDO advice. 
Its not in dispute that a change in FCDO advice isnt something thats covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, 
taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
The exclusion that Ive outlined above means that if Mr M had travelled abroad, he wouldnt 
have followed FCDO advice. So, he wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO guidance 
also arent covered  so he wasnt covered if he cancelled the trip because of this. That 
means that Mr M wasnt covered if he didnt travel due FCDO advice, and he wasnt covered 
if he did travel due to FCDO advice. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Mr M.
Mr M wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
this set of circumstances wasnt covered, and to understand the full effect of the policy 
terms. I dont think this information was brought to his attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made 
sufficiently clear.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr M and Lloyds. At 
the time Mr M bought the policy, there were other policies widely available on the market that 
wouldve covered this situation. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr M wouldve purchased the 
policy if hed realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance 
changed after hed bought the policy. I think its more likely that hed have purchased a 
policy which covered him for cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice had he been 
given clearer information about what this policy covered.  
Lloyds has requested evidence that Mr M would have purchased another policy. I dont think 
that is evidence that is, or could, be available. As Ive outlined above, on balance, I think its 
most likely Mr M would have opted to take out a policy which offered him cover for a change 
in FCDO advice. 
Lloyds says that Mr M couldve cancelled this policy and taken out another policy at any 
point before making a claim. But in saying this, Lloyds is ultimately saying Mr M wouldve 
understood the full effect of the policy terms. And as Ive already explained, I dont think he 
did. So, I dont think Lloyds argument is persuasive.I know Lloyds didnt decline the claim due to the FCDO exclusion. But while the reason for 
cancellation here isnt strictly covered by the policy, if Mr M had travelled it seems that he 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy at all. Thats because he wouldve travelled 
against FCDO advice. So, had he travelled and made a claim, I think its likely the exclusion 
wouldve applied in his circumstances. 
Additionally, as Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint solely because Lloyds 
didnt highlight the FCDO exclusion  Im upholding it because the full effect of the policy 
wasnt made sufficiently clear to Mr M. Ive taken into account that Lloyds has said the 
failure to highlight the exclusion shouldnt lead to cover being available under the policy. This 
doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint as I dont think it leads to a 
fair and reasonable outcome. I think its fairer that the claim is considered under the 
cancellation section as I think that more fairly reflects the detriment Mr M experienced. 
Lloyds says Mr M wouldve been aware of the potential risk of Covid-19, and the risk of the 
FCDO advice changing, when he bought the policy on 10 February 2020. I dont agree. For 
example, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare Covid-19 a pandemic until 
11 March 2020. 
Finally, Im satisfied that Mr M has made reasonable attempts to seek a refund from the 
operator. I dont think it would be reasonable for him pursue this further, such as through the 
courts, instead of claiming on his insurance policy. I also note that the sailing trip went 
ahead, but the issue was that Mr M couldnt join it due to the change in FCDO advice and 
the subsequent cancellation of his flight. So, Im satisfied Mr Ms losses are now 
irrecoverable.
Putting things right
Im directing Society of Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of 
the policy. Society of Lloyds should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Society of Lloyds and 
direct it to put things right in the way that Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman