DRN-3297745
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Paragon Bank Plc misled her about an account interest rate.
What happened
Mrs C says she wished to transfer her ISA to Paragon and it told her the relevant interest 
rate was 1.65%. She says that information was repeated, and she proceeded with the 
transfer. But was later told a mistake had been made and the interest rate was 1.31%. Mrs C 
says that mistake caused distress and inconvenience and says Paragon should honour that 
rate.
Paragon accepts it made a mistake, has apologised and paid £30 compensation. It says it 
allowed Mrs C 30 days to transfer her ISA without charge. Paragon says Mrs C tried to 
transfer her ISA to it when the interest rate was 1.25% but the transfer could not be 
proceeded with. It says Mrs C was advised the relevant interest rate would be when the 
money was received and says the rate had increased when Mrs C made the transfer. It also 
says it gave Mrs C the option of withdrawing her money without penalty but cant honour the 
rate given in mistake.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Paragon had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator thought Mrs C originally applied to transfer her ISA when the rate was 
1.25% but for whatever reason that did not go through. He thought it likely Mrs C would still 
have transferred her ISA even if given the correct information and thought Paragon had fairly 
given her 30 days to transfer her money to a different provider. The investigator thought the 
compensation offer appropriate.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and says she transferred her money to an account paying 
0.4% as she was concerned about the time period she had to transfer the ISA, which was 
not 30 days as the complaint was ongoing. She says the error with the original transfer was 
not hers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Paragon has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision. 
There is no question here that Paragon made a mistake on two occasions by telling Mrs C 
the interest rate was 1.65%. I appreciate Mrs Cs frustration in those circumstances to find 
out the rate was in fact 1.31% and that the mistake had been repeated. But Im satisfied 
Paragon has fairly apologised for the mistake and has provided feedback to its staff 
members. Im also satisfied that it has offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount 
which I think reflects the fact that I dont think Mrs C suffered a financial loss and fairly 
reflects the level of inconvenience caused.
I have looked carefully at the history of the ISA transfer and can see Mrs C tried to transfer 
her ISA to Paragon when the interest rate was 1.25%. It is not clear why that transfer was 
not completed but I think it provides evidence that Mrs Cs intention was to transfer her ISA 
to Paragon. And I can see she was told the applicable interest rate would be the rate in force 
when the money was received. So, Im satisfied that Mrs C wished to transfer her ISA to 
Paragon and that she was told that the interest rate could change.
Im satisfied that Mrs C then tried to transfer the ISA a second time and asked what the 
interest rate was. I accept she was given incorrect information, but I think on balance its 
likely Mrs Cs intention was to continue with the transfer she had previously tried to make. 
And that although the quoted interest rate was incorrect it had increased from 1.25% to 
1.31%.
I have made clear that I appreciate Mrs Cs frustration in being told the incorrect rate, but Im 
satisfied Paragon acted fairly by allowing her the option of withdrawing her money. I can see 
that Mrs C identified an account paying just over 1.50% interest which I think she could have 
transferred his money to if she wished. I appreciate Mrs C says she wasnt given a full 30 
days to make a transfer. But Im satisfied that she could have used that 30-day period and 
that it was her choice to transfer her money to an account paying 0.40% interest when she 
could have received 1.31% interest with Paragon.
Overall, Im satisfied that Paragon has paid appropriate compensation and that it gave Mrs C 
the option of transferring her money. I cant fairly order Paragon to honour an interest rate 
clearly given by mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman