DRN-1226087
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited offered for her car under her 
motor insurance policy after it was declared a total loss. She wants a reasonable offer for her 
car so that she can buy a like replacement. 
What happened
Mrs Cs car was damaged when it was hit by another car whilst parked and esure deemed it 
to be beyond economic repair. It offered Mrs C £1,980 as the valuation of her car. But Mrs C 
thought it was worth between £2,500 and £3,000. Mrs C also said she was out of pocket 
because of the incident. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures 
offer for the market value of Mrs Cs car was fair and reasonable. He thought Mrs C should 
approach the other drivers insurer about her uninsured losses. 
Mrs C replied that she was unhappy with esures offer. She asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs C is disappointed with esures offer as shes unable to replace her 
car with a like one for that amount. I can also see that this has been a stressful time for her, 
due to no fault of her own. 
Mrs C was unhappy with esures settlement offer. As the investigator has explained, Mrs Cs 
policy provides for the market value of her car in the case of it being a total loss. This is 
defined in her policy as the likely selling price of her car just before its loss, not what it would 
cost to buy a replacement. 
This services approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek 
to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. We think this 
approach is fair to all parties. 
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked how he came to 
this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Cs at the date of loss. esure had offered Mrs C £1,980 (less her £250 policy excess). I think this is the average of 
the valuations provided by the motor trade guides we use. So I think its fair and reasonable 
and I dont require esure to increase its offer. 
Mrs C said shed incurred uninsured losses (income, policy excess) due to the accident. As 
the investigator has explained, she should approach the other insurer about these as theyre 
not covered by her policy with esure. 
Mrs C said she sent esures check back as she didnt accept the offer. She said this had 
caused her to lose work. But I think Mrs C could have accepted the offer as interim 
settlement pending the outcome of her complaint. This would have allowed her to mitigate 
her losses, even though she may not have been able to afford to buy an equally large car as 
the one she lost. So I cant hold esure responsible for this. 
esure has said it would check with its finance department to see if Mrs Cs cheque had been 
cashed. If not, then it said someone would contact Mrs C to reissue payment. If this hasnt 
happened yet, then I expect esure to still honour this. Mrs C can ask the investigator to liaise 
with esure about this if she wishes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman