DRN-1592465
 
The complaint
Mr K makes a number of complaints about Santander UK Plc account charges and decision 
to register a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr K says Santander applied excessive charges to his account in 2013 and later registered 
a default on his credit file. He says Santander was aware he was a student and chased him 
aggressively for the charges knowing he was under 18 at the time. Mr K says Santander 
later accepted the default was incorrectly registered but hasn't paid him compensation for 
the stress and worry he was caused over many years and the impact on his credit file. He 
also says he complained to Santander at the time but it closed his account when it was 
£5,000 overdrawn and didn't provide him with referral rights to us. Mr K would like interest on 
the charges paid to him and compensation.
Santander says it shouldn't have registered a default as the overdraft was made up mainly of 
its charges. It says the charges were correctly applied in line with account terms and 
conditions but has refunded the charges of just over £532. Santander says interest is not 
appropriate as Mr K didn't pay back the money and says it hasn't had contact with Mr K 
since 2014. It says Mr K opened an account with it in 2007 and the account that was closed 
was in place since July 2012.
Mr K brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought Santander had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator thought a failed direct debit took Mr K's account overdrawn and meant 
charges built up. The investigator thought the charges were correctly applied in line with 
account terms and conditions and so didn't think Santander made a mistake by asking Mr K 
to repay the amount owed. The investigator accepted the default should not have been 
registered but thought Santander had acted fairly by waiving the balance owed of over £532 
and didn't think the impact was significant as Mr K had other defaults registered on his credit 
file. The investigator also thought that Mr K would have needed to have spoken to 
Santander's specialist debt team at the time and that he did receive referral rights to us.
Mr C doesn't accept that view and in summary says he wasn't given any details of the 
charges or notice of them and Santander closed his account due to its error. He says the 
charges should not have been made, as Santander knew he was a student under 18 with 
low income and didn't act positively and sympathetically.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr K will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked at Mr K's account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see those terms and conditions say a charge will 
be made for each day an account is in an unauthorised overdraft and that a charge will be 
made for an unpaid transaction fee. I'm satisfied that is what took place here, that Mr K's 
account became overdrawn due to a failed direct debit which led to the account charges. So 
I'm satisfied the charges were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions and 
that Santander hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying them. I don't think it 
matters that Mr K was a student at the time, as for the reasons I have explained, I find the 
charges were applied correctly.
I appreciate Mr K says the charges were unfair but following a Supreme Court case in 2009 
it was held such charges can't be challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair. 
I also appreciate Mr K says he was under 18 at the time and that Santander didn't provide 
him with details of the charges. I have looked at the information both sides have given me 
and I find Mr K was not under 18 at the time of the charges. And I think it likely that 
Santander did provide information about the charges, as I can see Mr K complained about 
them at the time. I also think it was Mr K's responsibility to mange his account and ought to 
have been aware of the direct debit and could have seen the charges on his account 
statements.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that Mr K wrote to Santander in October 2013 and provided some 
details about his position and followed that letter up with another in January 2014. But I can 
see by December 2013 Santander was no longer applying charges to the account and the 
last transaction made by Mr K was in October 2013. I can see that in the letters Mr K says 
he has received contact from Santander. So I think on balance that it likely Santander was 
trying to speak to Mr K about the debt which I think it was entitled to do and I would have 
expected Mr K to have spoken to Santander about the debt and its specialist department. I 
don't think a letter was sufficient to have allowed Santander to reach an agreement with Mr 
K or allowed it to have helped him. So overall I can't fairly conclude that Santander didn't act 
positively and sympathetically.
Santander accepts it should not have registered a default and has fairly removed it from Mr 
K's credit file. I'm satisfied that it's also acted fairly by waiving the charges I have already 
said were correctly applied of just over £532. I appreciate Mr K says the overdrawn balance 
was £5,000 but I accept that may have been his mistake. I have also looked at Mr K's credit 
report and can see that other defaults have been registered, so I don't think it possible to say 
that Santander's actions let to credit refusal and in any event I don't think Mr K has provided 
any further information about specific credit applications being refused.
Overall I'm satisfied Santander has dealt fairly with this complaint and I think, as Mr K's 
account was overdrawn with no activity, it was entitled to close the account. I also think Mr K 
was given referral rights to us in Santander's response letter in 2014. I don't think interest is 
appropriate on the overdrawn balance as Mr K didn't pay the money he owed and so wasn't 
without that money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman