DRN-3660674
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs M were due to travel by car to a UK-based holiday resort. 
Their trip had been planned to celebrate a special occasion. However, they said that due to 
local storm conditions, they werent able to travel out of their town and had to return home 
about three hours later. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with the cancellation of their trip.
AWP turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
policy terms and she didnt think that the cancellation section of the policy covered 
cancellation due to adverse weather conditions. And she didnt think itd been unfair for AWP 
to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered by the travel disruption section either. 
So she felt itd been fair for AWP to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. In summary, they said they thought the policy provided worldwide 
cover and that therefore, they thought theyd have been covered if they werent able to travel 
due to adverse weather conditions. They said they felt they were in a no-win situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for AWP to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
AWP treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs M found themselves was completely 
outside of their control. I also understand that this trip had been planned as a celebration 
and so I appreciate it mustve been very disappointing when Mr and Mrs M werent able to 
travel as theyd planned due to the stormy weather.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
AWPs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs M are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip, so I think it was appropriate for 
AWP to consider whether their claim was covered by the cancellation section of the policy. 
Ive looked closely at the defined, listed events AWP has chosen to cover in the event of 
cancellation and Ive set these out below:
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of:
a. You;
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. A relative of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with;
d. Any person with whom you have arranged to reside temporarily; or
e. Your business colleague.
2. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
held in quarantine by order or another requirement of a government or public authority, 
based on their suspicion that you or they, specifically, have been exposed to a 
contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as COVID-19). 
3. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
called for jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of Law.
4. Compulsory redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy 
payment legislation after a continuous working period of two years with the same 
employer and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone 
would be made redundant.
5. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed  Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or 
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled 
for operational reasons, provided that such cancellation or curtailment could not 
reasonably have been expected at the time this insurance is purchased by you.;
6. The Police requesting you to remain at or return to your home due to serious damage to 
your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious 
persons or theft.
7. Medical complications as a result of your pregnancy or the pregnancy of anyone you 
have arranged to travel or stay with during the trip.
8. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the 
country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive 
came into force after you have left the United Kingdom.
9. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
refused boarding of the public transport on which you are booked to travel, on the order 
of any government, public authority or carrier, due to you or they displaying symptoms of 
a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as COVID-19).
Its clear that Mr and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. So I dont 
think it was unfair for AWP to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Id have reasonably expected AWP to consider whether the claim was covered by any other 
section of the policy. Its clear that AWP did consider whether the claim was covered by the 
Travel Disruption section of the policy. This section is broadly set out in four parts: travel 
delay; arrival delay; missed departure and accommodation disturbance.
The arrival delay section provides cover if a policyholder cant reach their destination within 
12 hours of their scheduled arrival time due to diversion or re-direction of their public 
transport. Public transport is defined as: Any publicly licensed aircraft, sea vessel, train or 
coach on which you are booked to travel. This section provides cover for additional 
accommodation or travel costs to allow a policyholder to reach their destination. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs M werent travelling by public transport  they were in their own car. And they 
didnt travel on to their destination. So they didnt incur any additional travel or 
accommodation expenses.
Similarly, the missed departure section provides cover if a policyholder is too late to check-in 
for one of a list of specified reasons and says that AWP will pay up to £5000 for the travel 
and accommodation expenses a policyholder incurs in reaching their destination. As Ive set 
out above, Mr and Mrs M didnt incur such costs. 
Accommodation disturbance cover is provided for a policyholders irrecoverable travel and 
accommodation costs if they have to move accommodation or cut short their trip for one of a 
specified list of reasons. Here, Mr and Mrs M didnt reach their destination and theres no 
evidence to suggest that theyd have been unable to use their pre-booked accommodation if 
they had reached their destination.
So Ive finally considered whether AWP shouldve accepted the claim under the Travel Delay 
cover. This provides cover in the following circumstances:
1. A delay of your pre-booked public transport resulting in you departing at least 12 
hours after your original scheduled departure time; or
2.  You being involuntarily denied boarding because there are too many passengers for 
the seats available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 
hours; or
3. Abandonment of your trip following 12 hours of delay at your first international 
departure point in the UK.
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs M werent travelling by public transport  they were in their 
own car. And key here too, they werent delayed for more than 12 hours by the poor 
weather. I say that because they told us that they returned home after around three hours. 
So I dont find that AWP acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt 
covered by the Travel Disruption section of the policy either. Having looked carefully at the 
contract terms, I cant see any other section which would provide cover in Mr and Mrs Ms 
situation. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to tell AWP to step outside of 
the contract terms on the facts of this case.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ms position, I dont think that 
AWP has treated them unfairly. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could direct AWP to pay this claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman