DRN-3621803
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) were pursuing him for a debt that 
shouldve been settled.
When I refer to what Mr J and HSBC have said or did it should also be taken to include 
things said or done on their behalf.
What happened
Mr J was unhappy that HSBC unfairly debited interest, fees, and charges from his account 
when they ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial difficulties, so he 
brought a complaint to our service in 2019. In August 2021, this service issued a final 
decision addressing that complaint and this was accepted by Mr J. The ombudsman, in that 
final decision, directed HSBC to rework Mr Js account so that all interest, fees, and charges 
applied to the account from January 2015 were to be removed. The decision also said that if 
the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr J 
along with 8% simple interest. 
HSBC have said that in December 2021, they have removed all adverse information from Mr 
Js credit file recorded between January 2015 and October 2021. And in October 2021 they 
made a settlement refund payment to Mr J. The settlement refund was all paid directly to Mr 
Js chosen account (not the HSBC account in question), while a part of that amount 
shouldve gone to pay the outstanding balance on Mr Js HSBCs account first. HSBC said 
that they tried to discuss the outstanding balance with Mr J on a few occasions, but as they 
were unsuccessful, the outstanding debt of £318.66 was passed to an external debt 
collections agency.
Mr J was unhappy that HSBC and their agents were still pursuing him for a debt that 
shouldve already been settled by HSBC. He said that he is vulnerable, and the situation had 
caused him anxiety and stress, so he raised a complaint with HSBC. 
In March 2022, HSBC wrote to Mr J. In this correspondence they said that, in accordance 
with a decision issued by our service, in August 2021, they shouldve cleared the balance 
owing on Mr Js HSBC account, but that this didnt happen before the redress was paid to 
him. This resulted in the account having a balance of £318.66. In this correspondence, 
HSBC explained that this was a valid debt, but they agreed to clear this balance. They also 
said that they raised for Mr Js credit file to reflect as settled as of October 2021, as that 
corresponds with the date when they said they shouldve cleared the balance owing on his 
account. HSBC apologised and paid Mr J £150 compensation. They said this was a fair and 
reasonable amount when combined with the £318.66 they have written off. 
Mr J was unhappy with this so he brough his complaint our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the £150 compensation paid to Mr J, combined with 
the £318.66 that was written off, was fair considering the circumstances. He also thought 
that it is was fair that HSBC removed any negative information from Mr Js credit file.  
Mr J disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I should also point out that in this decision Im only addressing the complaint points Mr J 
raised, and, more specifically, only the issues he has experienced after he accepted the final 
decision which was issued by our service, and accepted by him, on August 2021. 
In their March 2022 correspondence to Mr J, HSBC apologised as they shouldve cleared 
the balance owing on his HSBC account, instead of paying the full redress directly to him. 
So, in this complaint there is no dispute that HSBC made an error, and Ive seen their 
account notes which indicate that all redress has been paid directly to Mr Js chosen external 
account, instead of part of it being used to settle the negative balance on his HSBC account. 
HSBC have also removed all adverse information incorrectly registered on Mr Js credit file 
for the period in question. Therefore, the only issue for me to decide is what impact this error 
had on Mr J, and whether the steps HSBC took to rectify their mistake were fair and 
reasonable.
From the contact notes, provided by HSBC, I can see that they tried to get a hold of Mr J on 
a few occasions to speak to him about the negative balance on his HSBC account. And, I 
can see, that on some occasions Mr J told them that he couldnt talk and arranged an 
alternative time to speak, but then when HSBC called back he was still unavailable. So, Ive 
considered that had Mr J made contact and explained the situation to HSBC sooner than he 
did, things maybe couldve been addressed earlier. But Ive also considered that had HSBC 
not made their error in the first place, when they were dealing with the settlement, then these 
calls wouldve not been required at all. And Ive also taken into consideration what Mr J told 
us about how this situation made him feel and what impact it had on him.
In summary, he has told us that he has been through a difficult time as he is vulnerable, and 
the situation had caused him a lot of anxiety and stress. And Mr J believes that the amount 
of compensation HSBC paid him is not enough to reflect what he has been through. So, Ive 
taken into consideration everything he told us about the impact this situation had on him. Im 
very sorry to hear about these issues and, while Mr J has my sympathy, I think the total 
compensation amount offered by HSBC is not unreasonable. They have agreed to write-off 
the negative balance in the amount of £318.66, plus they paid him a further £150. So overall, 
I sympathise with Mr J for the difficulties that he experienced but, taking all the 
circumstances of this complaint into account, I dont think Mr J has been treated unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman