DRN-2491420
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which protected the monthly repayments on a credit 
card which Ms C took out in 1997. 
Ms C recalled taking out PPI during a meeting - although Lloyds couldnt confirm this, that 
may well be what happened. Neither Lloyds nor Ms C could be certain exactly when PPI was 
sold. But its not in dispute that she had PPI. So it must have been added to her account 
either when Ms C opened her credit card account or sometime after. 
Ms C felt PPI was mis-sold to her mainly because she strongly believes she wasnt given 
information about the insurance apart from being told it was mandatory.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Because Ms C disagrees, her complaint comes 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Ms C to remember all the details of a sale that took place so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank mightve said to Ms C when she applied for her credit card. 
Lloyds has provided an example of a credit card application. But I dont know if this is like the 
form Ms C wouldve filled in. Although Ms C thought shed taken out PPI during a meeting 
no-one can say exactly when she got her credit card with PPI. So Im not relying on this.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Ms C wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her consent. But I cant fairly 
say this based on the very limited information Ive got. I must look at the available 
information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Ms C was persuaded of the need to protect her credit 
card monthly repayments by taking out the PPI offered and she decided to buy the policy. So 
Lloyds added PPI to her account at her request. 
In fairness to Ms C, Lloyds has looked at this complaint on the basis that it recommended 
she take out PPI. 
If a financial business makes a recommendation about PPI, it has an extra obligation to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving 
important policy information in a clear way. 
It looks to me as if a PPI recommendation was suitable for Ms C based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time. 
Ms C couldnt recall how much sick pay her employer paid  and she doesnt appear to have 
had any other significant means she couldve relied on to cover her credit card monthly 
repayments if she wasnt working. The policy wouldve paid more than her minimum credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Given what Ms C told us about her circumstances, I cant fairly say she didnt need the policy 
or that PPI wasnt a suitable recommendation for her. 
Its possible that some information Lloyds gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look like Ms C was likely to be affected by any of the policy 
exclusions or limitations. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Ms Cs decision to 
take it out.
I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Ms C made a claim. But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so it 
appears that she wanted to have it. And it seems to have been affordable for her at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Ms C wouldve been put off buying the policy even if shed 
been better informed as it gave her useful protection in her particular circumstances. On 
balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account what Ms C has told us about what happened when she tried to cancel 
the policy later on. But I am just dealing here with her mis-selling complaint, so this 
information doesnt change my decision. If Ms C wants to complain separately about her 
unsuccessful claim then in the first instance she will need to raise her concerns with Lloyds 
and/or the insurer. She can contact this service if she is uncertain about how to do this.  
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman