DRN-2280882
The complaint
Miss S is complaining that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined to pay 
her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ss partner opened the front door of the house one day and as he did so, Miss Ss dog 
ran out into the road. Unfortunately, the dog was hit by a car and needed treatment, 
including surgery and admittance into a veterinary hospital. The total cost was well over the 
£2,000 policy limit on Miss Ss pet insurance.
When Miss S claimed on her policy, Red Sands quoted the following from the general 
conditions shown in her policy documents:
10.1.4 You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in 
which a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured and all 
reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape. When loading your pet into or out of your 
vehicle, you must ensure that the area is either secure or your pet is on a lead.
Red Sands said that as the dog was able to escape from the property it would appear that 
all reasonable measures had not been taken to ensure that the property was secure. They 
declined Miss Ss claim. 
Miss S complained, saying that there were no other measures she could put in place which 
would have changed the situation. She said this was completely uncharacteristic behaviour 
for her dog. She asked Red Sands to look at the claim again. When they did, they said no 
reasonable steps had been taken to stop the dog from escaping. And they said the garden 
isnt secure which had allowed the dog to reach the road. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ss 
complaint.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint he initially said he thought Red Sands had 
acted fairly when theyd declined Miss Ss claim. Our investigator later asked Red Sands if 
theyd consider settling. He referred to some of our previous decisions on similar claims and 
asked Red Sands whether theyd pay the claim based on the reasoning in those decisions. 
Red Sands declined  they said they consider each claim on its individual merits. 
Red Sands added that from the evidence provided they could see Miss Ss property had a 
porch with two doors before exiting or entering the property. They said the dog had been 
able to exit both doors at the front of the property and escape onto an unenclosed driveway 
and out onto the road. So, they maintained their position that no reasonable steps were 
followed to ensure the dog was in a secure environment while the front door was opened.
Red Sands asked for an ombudsman to review the case and it came to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on 21 September 2020. I said I was inclined to uphold Miss Ss 
complaint and explained as follows: 
Miss Ss pet insurance policy says it covers vet fees for accidents, illnesses and 
conditions, up to the annual condition limit. It defines accident as a sudden, 
unforeseen, and unintended event causing injury to your pet. 
Miss Ss dog ran into the road when her partner opened the front door. Its clear to me 
that this was a sudden and unintended event. Im also inclined to say it was unforeseen  
Miss S has said that this was completely uncharacteristic of her dog and that it hadnt 
happened before. Miss S first insured her dog around eight months before the accident 
so I think shed have been aware of the dogs normal behaviour and couldnt have 
foreseen that it would run out into the road. 
To my mind, this is the critical point  the dogs usual behaviour meant that it was 
reasonable for Miss Ss partner to open the front door without taking additional measures 
to prevent the dogs escape. 
Red Sands have stated they declined Miss Ss claim because she didnt take all 
reasonable steps to ensure that the property was secure. Although they havent 
specifically said what other measures she should have taken, theyve said Miss Ss porch 
had two doors. And theyve said the driveway was unenclosed. 
I dont think the driveway is relevant here - Miss Ss dog isnt kept in an area with ready 
access to the driveway. Instead, the dog is kept in the house and I cant see theres any 
debate about whether the house is secure when the front door is closed. 
I couldnt see that Miss Ss porch had two doors  so I asked her to send some additional 
photos. Miss S has sent these to me and I can see that although theres an inner door 
frame, theres no door. Miss S explained that the previous owners of the house removed 
the door. 
For me to decide Miss S didnt take reasonable care, Red Sands needs to show she 
recognised the risk of her dog escaping and either took no measures to prevent the risk 
or took measures she knew to be inadequate. But its clear from Miss Ss testimony that 
she didnt expect her dog to run into the road when the front door was briefly opened  
because of her dogs previous behaviour she simply hadnt recognised that was a risk. 
So, based on everything Ive seen, Im minded to uphold this complaint. I say this 
because this type of insurance policy is meant to help protect against accidents  subject 
to the policy terms. In my opinion this was an accident that couldnt have been foreseen 
and not caused by Miss Ss or her partner being negligent. It follows that I dont think that 
Red Sands have fairly declined the claim based on the policy terms. In the circumstances 
Im inclined to say its fair for Red Sands to pay the claim subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. 
Miss S accepted my provisional decision, and Red Sands didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party have provided any comments which change my mind, Ive nothing further to 
add. Im upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Putting things right
Red Sands should pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits, together 
with 8% simple interest from the date Miss S paid her vet costs to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should 
pay the claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and deduction of any excess 
under the policy terms, together with 8% simple interest from the date Miss S paid her vet 
costs, to the date of settlement.
If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss S how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman