DRN-3188094
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the delays caused by TSB Bank plc in raising his chargeback claim.  
What happened
In December 2020, Mr O bought an item for £1,299 using his debit card. He returned the 
item to the store within 14 days of purchase but didnt receive a refund. 
Mr O contacted TSB on 18 February 2021, to raise a chargeback as he still hadnt received 
a refund after chasing the store several times. He complained to TSB when they sent him 
numerous messages asking for information hed already provided.
TSB accepted they couldve attempted Mr Os chargeback sooner. They apologised for the 
delay and the inappropriate wording in their email. They offered Mr O £50 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator agreed that TSB caused a delay in raising a chargeback and Mr O was 
asked for evidence that wasnt relevant. She recommended that TSB increase the 
compensation amount to £100. 
TSB accepted but Mr O disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a way for the card providers like TSB to claim money back from the 
retailers bank in certain specific circumstances, for example, if the customer doesnt get the 
goods or services they paid for.
Chargebacks are subject to strict rules and timescales which are set by the card scheme. 
And there are no guarantees that the money can be recovered from the retailers bank as 
the retailer could defend the chargeback. 
Customers arent legally entitled to a chargeback. This means TSB doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback simply because Mr O requested it. But Id expect them to fairly assess a claim 
and attempt a chargeback where there appears to be a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to initially ask Mr O on 19 February 2021, to 
provide further information about the transaction, such as proof of return and reason for 
returning the item. I think this information was required in order for TSB to fairly assess the 
claim and decide if a chargeback should be attempted.
Mr O gave TSB all the information they needed on 3 March 2021. Based on the information 
he provided, I think it was reasonable that TSB attempted the chargeback as there was a fair 
chance that the chargeback may succeed.
TSB didnt raise the chargeback claim until 8 March 2021. This delay of five days was 
avoidable as admitted by TSB themselves. It was caused by TSB repeatedly asking Mr O for 
the same information hed already provided. 
I agree TSB provided poor customer service to Mr O. The messages they sent were 
templated and irrelevant to Mr Os claim. I can understand why the messages wouldnt have 
made sense to Mr O. I also think one message was inappropriately worded as Mr O had 
already explained the circumstances around the return  TSB have accepted this.
TSB didnt make Mr O feel listened to and this clearly caused Mr O unnecessary stress, 
frustration and annoyance. He was also caused some inconvenience in having to respond to 
TSB multiple times to explain that hed already provided the information being asked.
I dont doubt it was a challenging time for Mr O and Im sorry to hear he struggled to pay his 
rent. But TSB arent responsible for his dispute with the retailer. Its important to distinguish 
between the impact caused by the retailer in failing to provide a refund and the impact 
caused by the delays in TSB raising a chargeback.
In deciding a fair way to resolve this complaint, I can only take into account the delay caused 
by TSB in raising the chargeback. This means I cant hold TSB responsible for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him by the retailer not providing a refund for several months. 
I dont think the delay of five days was significant here, particularly since Mr O received a 
refund within 45 days of raising the chargeback  which is usually the timescale the retailer 
has to defend a chargeback.
TSB have apologised and agreed to pay £100 compensation in total. All things considered, I 
think this is fair and reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr O experienced 
as a result of TSBs mistakes. 
I know Mr O feels strongly about his complaint, but I dont agree the impact of the errors TSB 
made were significant enough to warrant further compensation. So, I wont be asking TSB to 
pay any more compensation. 
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr O 
£100 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman