DRN-4243092
The complaint
Mr S has complained Klarna Bank AB (publ) is holding him liable for a credit agreement 
when the item he originally ordered was never delivered.
What happened
Mr S ordered an expensive drone, which he intended to pay for over a period of a year. He 
took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with Klarna Bank for £4,099.
The drone was delivered in July 2022. But Mr S believed the wrong item had been delivered. 
He contacted the supplier (who Ill call J). They told him the best thing would be to return the 
unwanted drone to their store. He did this. He then received correspondence from J. After 
investigation, they believed the item Mr S had ordered had been sent and delivered to him. 
Theyd been in touch with their supplier. They confirmed the serial number on the drone, 
Mr S said he received, was not even a product theyd supplied on Js behalf.
Klarna Bank continued to hold Mr S liable for the outstanding finance as they believed he 
had the item he ordered. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator considered the evidence supplied by both Klarna Bank and Mr S. He told 
Mr S that the evidence showed his item being correctly packaged. Overall he felt it was most 
likely Mr S had received the correct item.
Mr S continued to believe otherwise. He noted there was no date and time for the photos 
supplied by J showing his item being prepared for delivery. Hed also questioned the item 
being sent to an address that wasnt registered as the billing address.
Hes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr S 
paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by J of those goods or services, Klarna Bank can 
also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but nothing 
specific which applies in Mr Ss case.
The key aspect of Mr Ss complaint is that he didnt receive the drone he ordered. This would 
be a breach of contract under section 75 if this were the case. 
I note the evidence Mr S supplied to us showing how the packaging wasnt correct for the 
item he ordered. And Ive weighed this against the evidence supplied by J. This shows the 
correct item being packaged in relation to a tracked order. I dont have all the detail about 
the time and dates this order was completed, but I see no reason why it wouldnt be Mr Ss 
original order as all other aspects match.
I have also seen there is a discrepancy between the item and serial number Ms S returned 
to J and the item (and serial number) J in fact supplied. Again I see no reason to doubt Js 
evidence the serial number supposedly belonging to the item Mr S returned was not one that 
belonged to an item they sold.
Its unfortunate that J insists the item Mr S returned to them isnt something they sell 
because the evidence clearly indicates otherwise I can tell by reviewing their website.
I obviously cant say for sure what happened to the drone, but I think its more than likely the 
correct drone was packaged and received by Mr S. 
I dont believe there was a breach of contract under section 75 and therefore Mr S remains 
liable for the credit he took out with Klarna Bank.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Klarna 
Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman