DRN-3756752
The complaint
Miss B complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading 
as Virgin Money, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in part or in full with a credit card, 
as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, that the goods should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances 
including whether the goods have been durable.
If the fault occurs shortly after purchase Id think it fair to assume the fault was either present 
or developing at the time the goods were supplied, when the business were responsible for 
the quality of the item. However, as the TV here was about four years old I think the onus is 
on Miss B to demonstrate there is a fault and that the fault was present or developing from 
the beginning. She may, for instance, be able to demonstrate that, if it could be established 
that the TV wasnt as durable as could reasonably have been expected.
Im not persuaded Miss B has been able to demonstrate the TV was of an unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Its clear from the TV shops report that the TV has experienced screen burn but the shops 
report doesnt explain how that has happened or whether, in their expert opinion, the fault 
was developing when the goods were sold. 
The warranty document explains that TVs should last between four and ten years and this 
TV failed after about three years and seven months. That would seem just a little early, but 
the warranty document also explains that screen burn is caused by usage and is not a 
product defect and so it wouldnt be fair to suggest there was a problem with the TV.
Miss B says it cant have been caused by her over usage as she is at work most of the time. 
She also notes that screen burn can be caused by having the brightness turned up too far, 
but shes explained that due to an eye condition she is sensitive to bright light and needs the 
brightness turned down and not up. Ive also read her suggestion that the mute image is 
burnt into the screen and that she hasnt kept the sound muted as its clearly only a 
temporary feature. 
I understand Miss Bs frustration here but the onus is on her to demonstrate the TV is of 
unsatisfactory quality and whilst I understand her reasoning, in the absence of an expert 
opinion to support her view that the TV hasnt been durable and to explain why its likely to 
have experienced screen burn, I dont think shes provided sufficient evidence it has been of 
unsatisfactory quality.
For those reasons I dont think Virgin Money were unreasonable to reject her section 75 
claim and Im not asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman