DRN-3126456
The complaint
Mr M complains that My Finance Club Limited didnt carry out adequate checks before 
lending to him. He says the loan provided is unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M was provided with a £400 loan by My Finance Club in April 2021. He says at the time 
of the loan he had three credit cards all at their limits and four other payday loans. He says 
the checks carried out before the loan was provided werent adequate and that had a proper 
credit check taken place My Finance Club would have seen his other debts. He says he 
cant afford the repayments. When he contacted My Finance Club he says it offered an 
extension but didnt explain this would be recorded on his credit file as an agreement to pay. 
My Finance Club says that before the loan was provided affordability and credit worthiness 
checks were carried out and based on these the loan appeared affordable for Mr M. It said 
Mr M confirmed he had provided accurate information and that he had considered the 
affordability of repaying the loan and that this wouldnt cause him financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. They noted that only one loan was provided to 
Mr M and didnt think that further checks were needed in this case. They said that the 
information had been recorded on Mr Ms credit file correctly.
Mr M didnt agree with out adjudicators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the 
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this 
when considering Mr Ms case. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail. 
Mr M was only provided with one loan by My Finance Club. While I note his comments about 
the size of the loan not being relevant when considering the level of checks needed, I accept 
that lesser checks can be reasonable in the early stages of a lending relationship whereas 
as a lending relationship continues further checks would likely be proportionate. In this case, 
Mr M was asked about his income and expenses and a credit check was carried out. At this 
stage I think these checks were reasonable, assuming they didnt raise concerns that 
needed further verification.
Mr Ms monthly income was recorded as £1,900 and My Finance Club says this was verified 
with Mr Ms bank and having looked at Mr Ms bank statements this income amount is 
supported. Mr M declared expenses of £942. Mr M said he had no dependents and was 
living at home with parents and so a lower amount for housing and other costs would be 
reasonable. His expenses included £592 of payments towards other credit commitments. 
Based on the information gathered the £400 loan with a £522 repayment appeared 
affordable for Mr M.
The credit check carried out showed the Mr M had three credit cards all with balances at the 
limits. This gave him a total of just under £1,200 outstanding on credit cards. He also had a 
hire purchase agreement paying £268 a month and an unsecured loan with monthly 
repayments of £241 (made through weekly payments of around £56). Therefore, the amount 
included for Mr Ms expenses for other credit commitments appears reasonable.
The credit report received by My Finance Club shows that Mr M had other debts, but this 
wouldnt necessarily mean that this loan shouldnt have been provided. I have also looked 
through the credit report Mr M has provided. He was using other short term loans around the 
time however there didnt appear to be any other short term loans outstanding at the time My 
Finance Club provided this loan. Mr M was maintaining his payments on his credit 
commitments and, on balance, I do not find that the credit information received by My 
Finance Club through its credit checks raised concerns that meant further checks were 
needed. 
I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms difficulties in repaying this loan and I can see that he was 
gambling in the months leading up to the loan being provided. But in this case, as I think the 
checks were proportionate and these didnt raise concerns about Mr Ms ability to repay the 
loan, and I dont think the information gathered meant further checks were needed, I do not 
find that My Finance Club should have been reasonably aware of Mr Ms gambling.
Mr M contacted My Finance Club when the loan was due for repayment to say he couldnt 
afford the repayment. I have listened to the call on which he says he has crashed his car and 
cant afford the loan repayment due that week. My Finance Club offers him a 30 day 
extension and explains the interest charged for this and that Mr M can repay the loan earlier. 
Mr M asks about the impact on his credit file and is told it will be recorded as a payment plan 
and that this will then be changed to settled when the loan is repaid. So, while I understand 
that Mr M is upset by the impact on his credit file, I find he was told how the extension would 
be recorded. 
As My Finance Club assisted Mr M when he said he couldnt make his repayment and I 
cannot say it has done anything wrong by recording the payment plan for the month that the 
loan repayment was delayed, I do not find I can say it did anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against My Finance Club Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman