DRN-3113757
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was mis-sold a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in February 
2003 and a Premier Added Value Account (PAVA) in December 2011 by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L says that she was pressurised into taking out the GAVA and the PAVA and they were 
not suitable for her.
Lloyds says that Ms L chose to take out both accounts and they were suitable for her.
I wasnt present during either of the sales and I cant know what was said. So, I will base my 
decision on the evidence thats available today.
I can understand that Lloyds may have tried hard to sell the accounts to Ms L, and its 
possible it implied that the GAVA and PAVA were her best choice without offering an 
alternative fee free account.
But both parties agree that Ms L had a fee free account before the GAVA and PAVA, so she 
knew these were available. And fee free accounts were widely available and advertised by 
other banks and financial institutions at the time of both sales. So, I think its more likely than 
not that if Ms L didnt want a fee-paying account, she wouldve declined it and gone 
elsewhere and found what she wanted.
So, I think Ms L knew she had a choice whether to take out the GAVA and the PAVA and 
she chose to do so on both occasions.
Lloyds recommended both accounts to Ms L, so it was required to ensure both were suitable 
for her and provide her with enough information to make an informed decision.
In 2003, the benefits of the GAVA included worldwide travel insurance for the account holder 
and partner, sentinel card protection,120-day purchase protection, travel accident insurance, 
a £100 interest free overdraft, home shopping service and discounted travel. 
Ms L agrees that she travelled up to three times a year, though she says it was mainly to 
visit relatives in Europe. I think its more likely than not she would have travelled with 
substantial travel insurance even if she were be able to rely on relatives for assistance when 
away.
And I think she was eligible for and could have used all the other benefits. 
Ms L could have closed the account at any time but didnt and kept it for several years.
Mobile phone insurance was added in April 2004, and Ms L registered two phones for cover.
Ms L says that Lloyds told her a lot about the GAVA when selling it to her, so I think its likely 
she received the relevant information she needed.
So, taking all this into account in my view I cant say its more likely than not that the GAVA 
was unsuitable for her or that she wasnt aware of the cost and benefits.
When Ms L took out the PAVA in December 2011, Lloyds has provided a record showing 
that she was interested in upgrading to get better car breakdown and mobile phone cover. 
And Ms L went on to use both multiple times.
So, again, in my view I cant say that its more likely than not that the PAVA was unsuitable 
for her or that she wasnt aware of the cost and benefits.
So, although I know Ms L will be disappointed and I dont doubt her honest recollections, in 
my view Its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the GAVA 
and PAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman