DRN-3797978
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt raise a dispute on her behalf for a 
payment she made to a laser treatment company. 
What happened
Ms O made a payment to laser treatment company. After Ms O had received the laser 
treatment, the company made her aware of information which Ms O felt should have been 
disclosed to her before the treatment had taken place, and which would have caused her to 
not pay for or receive the treatment as she had. 
Ms O therefore felt she should be reimbursed for the treatment, and she asked HSBC to 
raise a payment dispute on her behalf. But HSBC declined Ms Os request for them to raise 
a dispute to recover the money Ms O had paid to the laser treatment company. Ms O wasnt 
happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Ms Os complaint. They confirmed that because Ms O had made the 
payment by bank transfer, and not by using a debit or credit card, there wasnt a relevant 
card chargeback scheme available to her. However , HSBC did acknowledge they hadnt 
provided Ms O with the standard of service they aspire to in regard to responding to her 
queries or her complaint, and they apologised to Ms O for this and made a payment of £75 
as compensation for any trouble or upset she may have incurred as a result. Ms O wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly 
towards Ms O in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms O 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Ms O instructed the payment to the laser treatment company 
as a bank transfer from her HSBC account, and that HSBC then completed that requested 
bank transfer as instructed. Ms O then received the treatment shed paid for, and it was only 
after receiving that treatment that Ms O fell into dispute with the laser treatment company. 
As such, Im satisfied that any dispute that Ms O has with the laser treatment company is a 
civil dispute between Ms O and that company, and Im satisfied that HSBC  having 
completed the instruction given by Ms O to transfer the money to the company  shouldnt 
be considered as having any involvement in this dispute and shouldnt reasonably be asked 
to reimburse Ms O for a payment she herself instructed and which HSBC completed in good 
faith and in accordance with Ms Os given instructions.
This isnt to say that I feel that Ms O has no cause for dispute with the laser treatment 
company, and I hope that she is able to progress her complaint against that company 
directly. But it is to say that Im satisfied that HSBC havent done anything wrong here, either 
in completing the payment as instructed by Ms O, or in declining to attempt to recover the 
money for a treatment which Ms O has ultimately received. 
Ms O may point out that had the laser treatment company disclosed to her, before she paid 
for the treatment, the information that they later did which led to her seeking a 
reimbursement for that treatment, she would never have purchased the treatment in the first 
place. I dont dispute this. But again, its not HSBCs fault that the company didnt disclose 
the information to Ms O, and so I remain satisfied that HSBC shouldnt be fairly asked to 
reimburse Ms O for the treatment she paid for and received, and that any dispute that Ms O 
has in regard to that treatment is solely with the laser treatment company themselves. 
If a payment is made on a debit or credit card, it can be the case that a payment chargeback 
claim can be attempted under a scheme run by the card provider  whose symbol is on the 
card. But in this instance, Ms O didnt make the payment by debit or credit card, but rather 
by bank transfer, and so this option was never available to her. 
I also feel it should be noted that all such chargeback schemes have very strict rules which 
determine whether a chargeback can be attempted. And given that Ms O did receive the 
treatment she paid for  albeit treatment which she subsequently has issue with  I feel its 
possible that any chargeback attempt she may have been able to make, had she made the 
payment using a debit or credit card, would have been rejected.
Finally, HSBC have paid Ms O £75 for the service issues she experienced when contacting 
them. This compensation amount feels reasonable to me for these service issues, and I 
wont be instructing HSBC to do anything more in this regard.   
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Ms Os dispute here is with the laser treatment company, and as 
such Im similarly satisfied that HSBC shouldnt fairly be asked to either reimburse or 
compensate Ms O for not attempting to recover the payment she herself instructed to the 
laser treatment company as she would like. I realise this might not be the outcome Mr O was 
wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman