DRN-3925351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are partners in a partnership that Ill refer to as M. They have complained
about the amount The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFUM)
paid under their business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held business interruption insurance with NFUM for their holiday home for the
period from 12 noon on 30 April 2019 to 12 noon on 30 April 2020. Mr and Mrs P claimed on
their policy after M was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the
pandemic. NFUM accepted Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the extension for cancellation of
advanced bookings (COAB) however, Mr and Mrs P asked if the claim could be put on hold
until the end of the pandemic.
At the renewal of Mr and Mrs Ps policy on 30 April 2020 NFUM added an exclusion to the
endorsement for COAB which said that there was no cover for Covid-19.
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs P asked NFUM to review their claim. NFUM said it would pay
for any bookings cancelled while the first policy was in force. However, as cover was
excluded under the policy in place from 30 April it would not cover any further claims.
Unhappy with NFUMs response, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us. They said that
their claim should be considered as one continuous incident and therefore NFUM should be
required to pay up to the policy limit of £15,000 per policy. Mr and Mrs P said that the
cancellations had been processed in batches and although the cancellations had been
processed by the booking company after 30 April, the cancellations had been requested
before this date.
NFUM said that it had not told Mr and Mrs P that the claim would be treated as one ongoing
incident and, as it had removed cover from 30 April, it didnt think it needed to pay for any
cancellations after that date. However, it said that if Mr and Mrs P could show that 
cancellations had been made before 30 April it would consider that evidence further.
NFUM said it initially offered an incorrect settlement amount of £6,130. However, on review it
accepted it had made a mistake and increased the settlement offer to £10,140.
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and recommended that it be upheld in
part. She thought the first policy only covered cancellations requested before 30 April. As
she didnt think Mr and Mrs P had shown that the unpaid cancellations had occurred before
30 April she didnt think NFUM needed to pay Mr and Mrs P anything further for these. She
did, however, think that the policy sent to Mr and Mrs P at renewal set out that it provided
cover for cancelled bookings from 30 April. As such, she recommended that NFUM pay Mr
and Mrs Ps claim for bookings cancelled in the second policy year and add interest to the
settlement.
Mr and Mrs P accepted our Investigators recommendation, but NFUM didnt agree with the
outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It provided a detailed response
explaining why it didnt think it should be required to pay for losses under the policy which
commenced on 30 April.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 January 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFUM acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining to pay anything further on Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
Cover under the policy which commenced on 30 April 2019
Mr and Mrs Ps policy contains the following endorsement:
Endorsement 2:
Cancellation of Advance Bookings Cover Extension
WE will pay for loss of INCOME incurred by YOU if a guest who has booked
accommodation at YOUR PREMISES cancels or curtails their booking as a result
of:
1 death, ACCIDENT, ILLNESS (confirmed by a doctor) or compulsory quarantine
of them or their close relative, business associate, partner or travelling
companion;
The policy sets out that there is a limit of £1,500 per claim and a total claim limit of £15,000
per period of insurance.
I think its clear from this clause and the policy limits that the insured event is the customer
cancelling a booking. In my view, this is supported by the policy having a limit of £1,500 per
claim. There isnt anything in the policy which indicates that multiple cancellations due to the
same underlying cause will be treated as one claim. Therefore, I believe that NFUM has
acted fairly by offering to pay for those bookings which were cancelled during the period this
policy was in force. As I think the cancellation is what is covered, I dont think it would be
reasonable for NFUM to pay for any bookings which were cancelled after this policy ended
on 30 April as those arent covered by that policy.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Ps point that the booking office was very busy in March and
April and cancellations which were requested at that time werent processed until after the 
policy ended. However, its for the policyholder to demonstrate that they have a loss which is
covered by the policy, and I havent seen enough to persuade me that those bookings which
were processed after the policy ended were cancelled while the policy was in force. I
appreciate that the bookings show a last updated date but, in my view, that still doesnt
show its most likely that the bookings were cancelled before 30 April. NFUM has agreed to
consider any further evidence of cancellations made prior to 30 April. I think thats fair and
reasonable as it is what I would expect it to do in the circumstances.
Im pleased to see that NFUM has realised that its initial settlement offer was incorrect and
have now paid £10,140 to settle Ms claim. However, I dont believe that NFUM need to pay
for any further bookings as Im not persuaded that they were cancelled while the policy was
in force and I think its reasonable for NFUM to not consider all cancelled bookings due to
the pandemic as one claim.Cover under the policy which commenced on 30 April 2020
I have seen the renewal paperwork dated 26 March 2020. On the first page it says:
Please note endorsement 2: Advanced Booking Amend. The cancellation of
advanced bookings definition has been deleted and is replaced by this wording
The business interruption insurance section of the policy lists the endorsements. 
Endorsement 2 is titled Advanced Booking Cancellation Amend and says Cancellation of
Advanced Bookings Cover Extension excl. coronavirus. The Cancellation of Advanced
Bookings Extension is restated as follows
The endorsement is the same as the previous year but says it will not provide cover as a
result of death, ILLNESS or compulsory quarantine resulting from coronavirus, mutations of
coronavirus or diseases that result from coronavirus.
The policy also includes endorsement 4 which is called Cancellation of Advance Bookings
Cover Extension. This extension has the same wording as the previous year and did not
include any exclusion.
NFUM said the renewal documents included both endorsements as its underwriting system
did not allow it to remove the endorsement at that time. NFUM said it had made it clear in 
the renewal that cancellations due to Covid-19 werent covered.
The starting point for interpreting a contract is to consider what a reasonable policyholder
with the relevant background knowledge would have believed when entering into the
contract.
While I dont think the inclusion of two similar endorsements is particularly helpful, on
balance, I dont think that a reasonable policyholder would have believed that there was
cover for cancellations as a result of Covid-19. I think NFUM made it clear through the
wording on the first page of the renewal and through endorsement 2 that the endorsement
had been replaced with one that excluded cover for Covid-19. I dont think a reasonable
policyholder would believe that the policy both covered cancellations as a result of Covid-19
and also didnt cover it.
Mr and Mrs P have not made the argument that they believed they were covered for Covid-
19 due to the wording on the policy and Ive also seen transcripts of calls made after the
renewal which indicate that Mr and Mrs P had understood that the policy didnt provide 
cover.
For example, in a call in October 2020 Mr P said: On the 25 or thereabouts I have a letter 
dated saying that you know there is going to be a change to our new policy and we are no 
longer covered which- we were my reaction to that is still, you know, huge disappointment 
really I just it you know as customers of the NFU, of any insurance company, you know we 
were shocked at how swift that landed on the doormat. You know, that change in policy
but we put that to one side went back to the fact that we had been reassured that
we were covered under our old policy.
I dont consider that the inclusion of the second endorsement provides cover and therefore,
I dont think that NFUM need to provide cover under the policy which commenced on 30
April 2020.
InterestI understand that NFUM has now paid £10,140 to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Im pleased
that this error has been rectified but I think that NFUMs error caused Mr and Mrs P a
financial loss because they were without £4,010 they should have had sooner. To put
things right, I think it would be fair and reasonable for NFUM to add interest to that amount
at our usual rate of 8% simple per annum. I think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to
have some time to consider how much to pay on a claim and I think a month is a reasonable 
time for this. Mr and Mrs P asked for their claim to be revisited on 9 October 2020. 
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for NFUM to pay interest from 9 November 
2020 until the date it made payment.
I recognise that overall, this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs P were hoping for but, having
considered things very carefully, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to
require NFUM to pay anything more that I have set out.
NFUM accepted my decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree. While I have considered the entire response, I will summarise what I consider to be 
the key points:
Insurance is designed to act as a peace of mind and when Mr and Mrs P called 
NFUM in March 2020 they were told they would be covered.
When the UK Government announced restrictions on 23 March 2020 this meant that 
all bookings during lockdown needed to be cancelled and could not go ahead. This 
approach was accepted by the loss adjuster appointed by NFUM.
On 8 October 2020 Mr and Mrs P were told they would only be covered for bookings 
cancelled before 30 April 2020. NFUM deny confirming that it told Mr and Mrs P that 
the pandemic would be considered as one continuous incident. 
When bringing the complaint to our service Mr and Mrs P said that they thought the 
endorsements made the policy document unclear. Therefore, they disagree that they 
havent made the argument that the documents were unclear. 
NFUMs explanation of why the policy document contained contradictory 
endorsements is nonsense. If that was the case, NFUM could have explained that in 
the covering letter. 
Mr and Mrs P were unaware of the contradictory endorsements at the time of the 
renewal and only became aware of it when looking at the documents in more detail.
Mr and Mrs P dont consider that NFUM did enough to apologise for what had gone 
wrong. 
I considered the points made by Mr and Mrs P and let both them and NFUM know that I 
intended to award a further £300 for their distress and inconvenience. I said that NFUMs 
loss adjuster indicated that cover would be provided for longer than it ultimately was, which 
led to the claim going on for longer than it should have done. I said that if the loss adjuster 
had been clear that cover was only provided until 30 April 2020 Mr and Mrs P would have 
been more likely to have made their claim at that point, rather than waiting until later in the 
year. I also said that NFUM making a mistake in the calculation of the settlement had caused 
Mr and Mrs P further distress and inconvenience. 
NFUM said there had also been delays by Mr and Mrs P but accepted my provisional 
decision in order to resolve the complaint. Mr and Mrs P didnt provide any further comments 
by the required date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision and subsequent 
email to both parties. Ill explain why. 
Cover under the policy which commenced on 30 April 2019
I have explained in my provisional decision, why I believe that NFUM has settled Mr and Mrs 
Ps claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy so I dont intend to 
repeat those reasons.
Ive seen transcripts of calls between NFUM and Mr and Mrs P. On 11 March 2020 NFUM 
told Mr and Mrs P that their policy would provide cover if the Government confirmed 
quarantine. However, I havent seen anything in those calls which indicates that NFUM told 
Mr and Mrs P how long the cover would be provided for.
Mr and Mrs P have provided evidence which supports that the loss adjuster indicated that 
their claim would be paid for cancelled bookings until 4 July 2020. I also note that in October 
2020 NFUM recognised that it had been treating the claim as one, rather than a series of 
claims. However, this does not mean that NFUM need to pay more than is required by the 
policy. Thats because where an error occurs I consider what the impact of that error was 
and in this case I think the error led to Mr and Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience. I think 
they would have been upset to find that they werent covered for the period they believed 
they would be. 
I also believe that NFUM not providing the correct settlement amount for this period caused 
Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience, as they had to contact NFUM to get this resolved 
and they believe that NFUM hasnt appropriately recognised its error. I remain of the view 
that £300 is a fair amount of compensation for this, in addition to the interest to compensate 
Mr and Mrs P for being without money that they should have had sooner.  
Cover under the policy which commenced on 30 April 2020
As set out in my provisional decision, the starting point for interpreting a contract is to 
consider what a reasonable policyholder with the background information that would 
reasonably have been available at the time they bought the policy would have understood 
the language in the contract to mean. This is tested as at the time the parties entered into 
the contract.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I believe that a reasonable policyholder 
would understand the policy to mean that cover for Covid-19 had been excluded from the 
renewal of the policy in April 2020. Mr and Mrs P said NFUM could have explained why both 
endorsements remained. However, NFUM did say in its covering letter:
Please note endorsement 2: Advanced Booking Amend. The cancellation of
advanced bookings definition has been deleted and is replaced by this wording
I think this is clear enough to make Mr and Mrs P reasonably aware that the policy didnt 
provide cover for cancellations due to Covid-19. As such, I dont think endorsement 4 means 
that cover is included. 
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ps point that they believe the endorsements in the policy wording 
are unclear and that they hadnt read the policy documents at the time of the renewal. I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this point because even if I accept that they werent aware 
of the exclusion at the time it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because, I dont think the policy that incepted in April 2020 would reasonably be 
understood as providing cover and Mr and Mrs P not reading their policy documents at the 
time of the renewal does not change that. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ps business has been impacted by Covid-19 and they are frustrated 
by NFUMs actions in how it has dealt with their claim. I accept that NFUM could have 
handled some things better and have set out how NFUM should put things right below. 
Putting things right
To put things right NFUM should:
Pay Mrs P and Mr P interest on the £4,010 at 8% simple per annum from 9 
November 2020 until the date it made payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs P £300 for their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to: 
Pay Mrs P and Mr P interest on the £4,010 at 8% simple per annum from 9 
November 2020 until the date it made payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs P £300 for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman