DRN-2376519
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. declined his claim against his travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre includes 
reference to its agents. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr C took out an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre which included 
gadget and valuables cover. 
In December 2019, Mr C took at trip abroad and items were stolen from his backpack 
whilst he was on a minibus. Ill refer to the circumstances of the theft in more detail 
below. Mr C discovered the theft when he unpacked his backpack at his destination 
hotel. The items stolen were a laptop, a camera and a lens.
Mr C made a claim against his travel policy. Mapfre declined Mr Cs claim. It relied on an 
exclusion in the policy which says that theres no cover if the stolen items were 
unattended at the time of the theft. Mr C doesnt accept Mapfres decision. He says that 
his bag wasnt unattended. Mr C wants Mapfre to deal with his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion about unattended property and declining Mr Cs 
claim. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Mapfre was wrong to rely on the 
exclusion as its under the Gadgets and valuables extended cover section of the policy 
under OPTIONAL UPGRADES, so it cant be used as a blanket exclusion for all claims 
about gadgets and valuables. In addition, the exclusion refers to Property not 
Gadgets. 
Mr C says that his backpack wasnt unattended as he was close to it: it was less than a 
foot away from him and directly behind him. He says that he was on the back seat of the 
minibus and his bags were accessible by reaching behind. Mr C doesnt understand how 
leaving his backpack a foot away from him and having access to it at any time can be 
construed as leaving it unattended. He says that he looked back to see his rucksack 
every now and again. Mr C sent photographs which he says show that the rucksack 
wasnt covered and was balanced on top of other things in the back of the minibus.
The investigator considered what Mr C said but didnt change his view. Mr C asked that 
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr C had items stolen from him whilst he was travelling. Im conscious that Ive 
condensed what I dont doubt was an annoying and worrying time into a short narrative. That 
reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive 
captured the essence of what happened. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr C has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered. 
However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider 
the central issue, that is, whether Mapfre treated him unfairly in declining his claim. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows: 
OPTIONAL UPGRADES
L Gadgets and valuables extended cover
[]
What you are covered for
1. After taking off an amount for age, wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse 
you for a gadget or valuable item that [] has been [] stolen during your trip. []
The term goes on to refer to maximum payment amounts. The definition of Gadgets 
includes photographic equipment and laptops. 
Special exclusions that apply to section L
We will not cover the following:
[]
6. Property you leave unattended (other than in your locked accommodation); [] 
Unattended is defined in the policy as:
When you cannot see and are not close enough to your property or vehicle to stop it being 
damaged or stolen.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated him unfairly in 
declining his claim. I say that because:
Mr C chose the optional Gadgets and valuables extended cover and Im satisfied 
thats the right section against which to consider his claim. In any event, even if 
Mapfre was to consider Mr Cs claim against the Personal belongings and baggage 
section of the policy, theres the same exclusion relating to unattended property in 
that section too. The central question for me to decide is whether Mapfre treated Mr C unfairly in 
relying on the exclusion Ive set out above. When an insurer seeks to rely on an 
exclusion in the policy it must show that it applies in the circumstances that led to the 
claim. I think Mapfre has done that here and Ill explain why.
I dont think that Mr Cs argument that the exclusion refers to Property not 
Gadgets and therefore cant apply to his claim is persuasive. In normal, natural 
use, I think that Property includes both gadgets and valuables. 
In his claim form, Mr C says that the bus driver indicated that he should put his 
backpack in the boot of the minibus. He says that the minibus was at the bus station 
with its boot open for 15 or 20 minutes after he put his backpack in the boot. Mr C 
says that the bus station was very crowded and there were children around the 
minibus asking tourists for money. He says that during the journey the minibus made 
several stops and the boot was opened multiple times. 
During Mr Cs complaint, he added that his backpack wasnt unattended as he was 
close to it: it was less than a foot directly behind him. The photographs Mr C has 
provided are quite dark, but Mr C says that they show that his backpack, which hes 
circled, was behind him at roughly shoulder height as hes seated. The boot isnt 
covered inside the minibus and Mr C says that he could access his backpack at any 
time and that he checked on it from time to time. I understand that this was a journey 
of several hours. 
Ive considered the matter carefully. I dont think that Mapfre treated Mr C unfairly in 
concluding that his property was unattended. Thats because I dont think that Mr C 
could see and was close enough to his backpack to stop the items being stolen. The 
backpack was in an uncovered boot behind Mr C. Mr C couldnt always see his 
property, as he was seated facing the other way. Mr C hasnt said how often he 
looked back to see his rucksack but has referred to doing so every now and again. I 
dont think that meant that Mr C could see his property such that he could prevent it 
being stolen. 
In addition, the backpack which contained the items that were stolen was in a boot 
that was open for some of the time and to which others had access.
Ive noted what Mr C says about the reason he put his backpack in the boot of the 
minibus  the driver indicated that he should do so when the minibus got crowded. I 
think it was open to Mr C to remove some of his property from his backpack and 
keep items with him, rather than leave them in the boot. 
I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that the items 
that were stolen were unattended and therefore excluded under the policy. Theres 
no basis on which to direct Mapfre to settle Mr Cs claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman