DRN-3566602
The complaint
Ms B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) has 
acted fraudulently in how it has applied payments she made to her account, she says this 
has left her out of pocket.
What happened
Ms B says that in September 2010 she made a payment using her credit card for £419, and 
in August 2019 she made a payment using her credit card for £514.52. Ms B says that her 
statements show that these transactions were applied to her account in the wrong months  
she says she was charged for them from May 2010 and May 2019 respectively.
Ms B noticed this issue in 2019 and so she complained to M&S that it was defrauding her. 
M&S appears to have initially misunderstood Ms Bs complaint, it thought that she was 
saying the two transactions were fraudulently made without her consent. But ultimately M&S 
confirmed that the transactions had been correctly debited from Ms Bs account and that 
interest had been applied in line with its terms and conditions.
Ms B remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into things. He explained that any complaint about the 2010 transaction had been 
referred to us too late. Ms B hasnt said anything to disagree with his finding on that point, so 
I wont be considering the 2010 transaction in any detail in this decision. 
Our investigator also explained why he didnt think that M&S had done anything wrong 
regarding the 2019 transaction. But Ms B remained unhappy with his findings on that point, 
so her complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms B is concerned that M&S has in some way manipulated her statements 
so that she has paid more than she should have following the transaction she made in 
August 2019. But Ive looked very closely at her credit card statements for that period and for 
the years before and after the transaction in question. And Im satisfied that the transaction 
was correctly debited from her credit card account  on 6 August 2019  and that she was 
then correctly charged interest on that amount until she repaid it in full.
Ms B has said that a statements she received referred to a higher amount  £559  but as 
our investigator explained in detail in his view, the statement Ms B is referring to here was an 
annual statement showing the total amount of all her spending on the account from May 
2019 to May 2020. And her credit card statements show that in that period she did spend 
£559 in total.
Ms B has also referred to payments she made to the account in 2014, but I can see from her 
statements that she had a small outstanding balance on the account in 2014  relating to 
spending at shops  so it makes sense that she would have been making payments to the 
account. I cant see that her payments in 2014 had anything to do with the August 2019 
payment this complaint is about.
In summary, I am satisfied from all that Ive seen that M&S correctly debited the payment for 
£514.52 from Ms Bs account and then went on to correctly charge her interest on that 
amount until it was repaid. It follows that I dont consider Ms B was then overcharged or 
otherwise financially disadvantaged here as I do not consider M&S made any mistakes  
deliberate or otherwise  in its management of her account.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms B, but I hope she will at least feel that her concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman