DRN-3317544
The complaint
Mr P complains about his bank Metro Bank PLC. He says it didnt help recover the money he 
lost to a fraudulent company. Mr P also complains that Metro Bank didnt warn him about the 
potential risk of fraud when he made the payments.
What happened
Mr P says that he was interested in foreign exchange trading and was looking for a broker. 
In March 2020, Mr P came across an advertisement for a company  Ill call it A  on social 
media. He says that before registering his interest, he checked as best as he could that A 
was a legitimate company. His checks showed that A was regulated in a different jurisdiction 
and he assumed it was also regulated in the UK, given it accepted deposits in pound 
sterling. 
Between 20 March and 27 March 2020, Mr P made four small deposits (£100-£200) totalling 
£500 using his Metro Bank debit card. On 1 April, he sent £5,000 using the same method. 
And there was a further deposit of £200 on 14 April. 
Mr P says that his account manager at A did the trading on his behalf and kept pushing him 
to invest more money. He says he was given offers of protection as long as he deposited a 
certain amount. After a while, Mr P became suspicious that his account manager wasnt 
acting in his best interests. He says he found it strange that he was only dealing with one 
person despite As presence in several countries. 
Mr P did further research into A and in May 2020, he contacted the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), the financial services regulator in the UK. The FCA told him that A wasnt 
regulated by it and asked him not to contact A, and to report the matter to the police and his 
bank. 
Mr P reported the matter to the police and contacted Metro Bank for assistance with 
recovering the money. Metro Bank said it wouldnt attempt a chargeback for the disputed 
payments as the card schemes rules excluded such transactions. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr P contacted our service. He complained that Metro Bank didnt provide any 
warnings when he made payments to A. Mr P also told us that hed been unable to withdraw 
any funds from his trading account and requests to close it had also been ignored. 
Our investigator thought Mr P had been scammed by A. He concluded that Metro Bank 
hadnt acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback. But he also considered whether it could 
have done more to prevent the money from being sent in the first instance. The investigator 
thought that the first four  smaller  payments werent unusual or suspicious, but the fifth 
payment of £5,000 should have triggered an alert. He thought that it was unlikely that Mr P 
would have gone ahead with the payment  as well as the subsequent payment  had Metro 
Bank intervened. The investigator asked Metro Bank to refund the two payments along with 
interest. 
Mr P accepted the investigators view, but Metro Bank didnt think it should be held liable for 
the two transactions. I issued my provisional decision in January 2022. I said I didnt intend 
upholding this complaint, and set out the following reasoning: 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options, contracts for 
difference (CFD), or foreign exchange scam is in fact a scam. Some complaints 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or losses. 
Some traders may have promoted these products using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical or misleading. 
However, while customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing 
to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing 
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect 
customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they dont have to protect customers against the risk 
of bad bargains or give investment advice. And the FCA has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 
2012 consultation paper on investment fraud).
So, the first question I need to consider is whether A was a fraudster. 
Were the disputed payments fraudulent?
Our investigators assessment was that A wasnt carrying out legitimate trades and it 
was dishonestly defrauding customers. Amongst other things, he noted that A wasnt 
regulated by the FCA which was a requirement at the time of Mr Ps disputed 
payments. And, as far as he was aware, it wasnt regulated in any other jurisdiction 
either. 
Ive done my own research into A and I can see that it was regulated in another 
jurisdiction at the time of the disputed payments. Mr P has also confirmed this as he 
told us that the basic checks he did prior to opening a trading account with A showed 
that it was regulated in another country. He also informed our service that hed 
already been in contact with As regulator following his discussion with the FCA.
 
While its true that A was operating in the UK without the FCAs authorisation, this 
doesnt automatically mean that its an illegitimate company, or that it was set up with 
the express intention of defrauding its customers. Businesses that submit themselves 
to regulatory requirements tend to be legitimate. 
Regulatory standards vary in different jurisdictions, and some may fall below what 
might be considered acceptable in the UK. But this doesnt necessarily mean that a 
company that is subject to regulatory requirements in another jurisdiction and isnt 
regulated in the UK is running a scam.
I acknowledge that the FCA issued a warning about A in June 2020 and said that it 
was operating in the UK without its permission. While this is a strong indication that A 
had been wrongly operating in the FCAs jurisdiction (and so theres lesser protection 
if something were to go wrong), the warning doesnt sufficiently prove that A was set 
up to dishonestly defraud customers. Ive looked at other third-party evidence, to determine whether A may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as fraudulently seeking gains at the expense of others. 
I havent seen adverse information about A from the material time. Ive seen some 
negative reviews since Mr P made the payments, including delays with processing 
withdrawal requests and customers losing money. But I cant ignore that, while this 
could be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture of A, this 
is not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud. 
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade 
me with any degree of certainty that A was operating a scam and the evidence I have 
seen suggests that it was indeed regulated  albeit in a different jurisdiction  at the 
time it offered services to Mr P. By his own account, the payments Mr P made from 
his Metro Bank account appeared on his trading account with A (albeit the bank 
statements showed a different merchant name). And trades were executed from 
Mr Ps trading account.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that A was in fact a 
fraudulent company. Rather, it is my judgement that Mr P has lost his money as a 
result of investing in a high-risk investment or bad bargain. 
Mr P submits that Metro Bank didnt provide any warnings and failed to identify the 
payments as unusual or out of character. Metro Bank has a duty to protect its 
customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. But given Ive concluded that 
the payments Mr P authorised werent fraudulent, this duty to intervene was not 
triggered here. As Ive explained, banks and other PSPs arent required to protect 
customers from the risk of financial loss due to poor investment advice or bad 
bargains. Metro Bank is required to guard against money laundering and other 
financial crime. I accept that in some circumstances, undertaking normal due 
diligence for this reason might  inadvertently and incidentally  prevent a customer 
from financial loss due to a bad bargain or poor investment advice. But if a firm has 
failed to meet its statutory or regulatory requirements, that is a matter for the FCA as 
the regulator  and the omission does not in itself fix the firm with liability to 
customers for losses that are unconnected with the real mischief which the 
regulations were designed to combat, i.e. financial crime or fraud.
I invited further comments from both parties. Metro Bank said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr P didnt agree and provided his objections to my provisional findings, which I now 
summarise:
He strongly disputes that theres no proven fraud on As part. Mr P says that A is 
making false representations to potential customers regarding both its operating 
status and locations of operation. Hes forwarded an email from the financial 
regulator in Malta which he says shows that A is not a registered company in Malta, 
nor does it hold a license to operate within its jurisdiction. Mr P has also forwarded an 
email from A which includes an address in Malta. He says this shows that A is based 
in or operating out of an address in Malta, and this is a clear breach of the Fraud Act 
2006.
Mr P says that if A was operating legitimately, then it ought to have either refused 
payment from him on the grounds that it wasnt regulated to accept payments from 
the UK, or informed him that its regulatory status doesnt cover payments from UK 
bank accounts. Mr P strongly disagrees with my judgement that hes lost his money as a result of 
investing in a high-risk investment or bad bargain. He says he did at the time 
understand the risks associated with trading; his trading positions were producing an 
excellent return and losses were never his objection to A. He was simply concerned 
about the security of his money and whether he could recover any funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr P for his recent submissions and would like to reassure him that Ive carefully 
considered everything hes provided  recently as well as before  in its entirety. Having 
done so, my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision remain unchanged. Ill explain 
why. 
The email from Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) that Mr P has forwarded states 
that A isnt registered in Malta, nor is it licensed or otherwise authorised by it to provide 
financial services which require a license or authorisation under Maltese law.  
The email signature in As emails to Mr P does include an address in Malta. I appreciate its 
possible that Mr P inferred from this that A was registered in Malta and/or regulated by the 
MFSA. But I cant see that any claims were made in the email signature (or disclaimer) about 
A being registered in Malta or being licensed  or otherwise authorised  to provide financial 
services to Maltese residents.
 
What I can see is that the email signature/disclaimer includes the name of As regulator (its 
not the FCA or the MFSA), as well as the license number. This part of the email wasnt 
included in the snippet that Mr P recently shared, but its there in As emails which have 
been previously forwarded to us. 
I accept that its possible A was/is not operating in a way that the FCA and MFSA approve 
of. I also accept that its likely that they have concerns about As marketing practices, 
possibly including representations made by it. But this isnt sufficient evidence that A is 
fraudulent or operating a scam. It was regulated in another jurisdiction and, to the best of my 
knowledge, continues to be so. Illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of 
scamming customers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. So, 
Ive still not seen credible evidence to conclude that A is a fraudulent company and is 
operating a scam.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr P said that he was advised by As representative 
that A was regulated in the UK. But that is not what he told us in July 2020 when he first 
contacted us. At the time, Mr P told us that he had asked the representative if A was 
regulated and was advised that it was  the representatives response wasnt untrue as A 
was regulated. In the same phone call, Mr A told us that he had checked where A was 
regulated and knew that it was regulated in a different jurisdiction. He went on to say that he 
didnt know A wouldnt be regulated in the UK; he assumed that it was since it accepted 
payments in pounds sterling. [my emphasis]
Mr P submits that A wasnt regulated to accept payments from the UK. And that A should 
have disclosed to him that its regulatory status doesnt cover payments from UK bank 
accounts. But Ive not been provided with any evidence that shows As regulator has 
specifically restricted it from accepting payments from the UK. And I havent seen anything to suggest that As terms of business or indeed its regulator requires it to disclose when 
payments from certain countries (in this case, the UK) arent covered.
If Mr Ps argument is that A cant accept payments from the UK or accept payments in 
pounds sterling because it isnt regulated here, its akin to suggesting that overseas 
merchants or retailers who arent registered in the UK cant accept payments from UK 
cardholders or accept payments in pounds sterling. In other words, UK residents cant buy 
goods and services from non-UK retailers if theyre not registered here. In my experience, 
purchasing items from international retailers is ever increasing. And nowadays, its also 
possible to pay international retailers in the cardholders local currency.
Mr P says that his trading positions were providing excellent returns, and losses werent his 
objection to A. Im happy to withdraw my comment regarding Mr Ps losses. But if his 
concerns only relate to As conduct, I question what losses he seeks to hold Metro Bank 
liable for. Ive not seen credible evidence to conclude that A was operating a scam and, as 
explained in my provisional decision, Metro Banks duty to intervene wasnt triggered here. 
I would also add, for the sake of completeness, that there was and is no duty on a PSP like 
Metro Bank to check the regulatory status of a merchant before executing a transaction. 
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, Ive found no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to 
Mr P. Not least because the complaint has been ongoing for some time now and our 
investigator previously upheld it. But Im not persuaded that Metro Bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its dealings with Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman