DRN-3631296
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2015, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In May 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
Furthermore, P had registered Mr Ss MCS certificate at the wrong address, which meant 
that he had not received any FIT payments. P had agreed to pay him the resulting loss, but 
after making only one payment of £393.07 they had not made any more payments, and had 
not dealt with this issue despite Mr S making numerous phone calls.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no other reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had given too much weight to Ps quote;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law, yet the 
adjudicator appeared to have put the onus on Mr S to discover that the system would 
not be self-funding by reading the quote;
it was not credible to suggest that Mr S would have agreed to buy the system unless 
he had been told that it would pay for itself;
as Mr S was an eye-witness to what happened at the sales meeting, and the 
salesmans direct testimony had not been obtained by Shawbrook, Mr Ss evidence 
ought to be preferred.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so I do not accept that it was.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
MCS certificate, the credit agreement, and the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr S has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I agree with the CMCs analysis of the law, which I have summarised above. If the salesman 
did mislead Mr S about the system, then it would not be a defence for either P or Shawbrook 
to say that Mr S could have discovered any misrepresentations simply by reading the quote 
in his own time to find out the true position. Rather, the relevance of the quote is that I do not 
think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that the salesman made oral representations 
which he knew were contradicted by the quote at a meeting in which the quote played a 
central part.
Therefore, although I have not heard directly from the salesman, I do not accept the CMCs 
submission that Mr Ss own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at the 
meeting. The quote is also evidence about that.
MCS registration
It is not in dispute that the MCS certificate was registered at the wrong address, and indeed 
I can see that for myself. This meant that Mr S has never received any FIT payments.
I have seen a letter from P to Mr S about this issue, dated 15 August 2016. This letter 
confirms that this was not Mr Ss fault, but that it cannot be rectified by P due to data 
protection laws. Instead, Mr S had to cancel the FIT registration himself, and then re-
register. P provided the relevant phone number to call to do this in the letter.
In the same letter, P said that it would annually pay Mr P the difference between the tariff he 
was supposed to have and the new tariff he would end up getting. It also made an advance 
payment of £393.07.
I think that offer was a fair and reasonable resolution to that problem. However, Mr S never 
re-registered his system for FIT payments. He has explained that he tried to, but he received 
no co-operation from the third party responsible, and P did not help him either. This means 
that P was not able to calculate how much more to pay him, since there was no new tariff for 
it to compare with the old.
I accept Mr Ss explanation for why he did not re-register. But I dont think that P, or 
Shawbrook, are responsible for the third partys shortcomings. I also accept Ps explanation 
for why it could not help him more than it did  it had already done what it could.
The CMC has argued that since P was responsible for this problem arising in the first place, 
Shawbrook should now compensate Mr S for this issue. But even if I told Shawbrook to do 
that, there is still not enough information for me to calculate how much compensation Mr S is entitled to. And it is now too late for Mr S to register for FIT payments, as the FIT scheme 
was closed to new applicants in 2019.
While the error was certainly unfortunate, it was identified and a solution was offered in 
2016. When Mr S was unable to re-register his system at the time, he abandoned the matter, 
and only instructed the CMC to bring up the matter again five years later, when in my view it 
was by then too late to do anything about it. If he had instructed the CMC to help him in early 
2019, or ideally sooner, I am sure that the CMC (which is a solicitors firm) would have been 
able to help him get the third party to re-register his system at the correct address. P would 
then have been in a position to easily calculate his loss and to reimburse him.
That is no longer possible. So I am afraid that, on the basis that Mr S has failed to mitigate 
his loss, I do not uphold this complaint point.
FIT payments and savings
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £469.51. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £368.09 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £1,096.36. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of about £91. Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £105.14. As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.14. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £106.68, but the difference  £1.54  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £105.14, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first two years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make 
enough money to cover the loan payments until year three.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr S wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.54 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr S, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take eight years for the 
overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the eight-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year eight the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,840.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash price in eight years. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mr S.
Performance: energy generation
The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 3,152 kWh a year. I have looked 
at Mr Ss meter reading and can see that his system, on average, has generated 1,872 kWh 
a year. This is much less than estimated by P at the point of sale (59%), so I agree that the 
system is under-performing.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr S was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook didnt 
have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much 
energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr S is still not satisfied, he may bring a new 
complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that 
issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr Ss claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr Ss original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the effect 
that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the system had 
therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the estimated 
financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to generate as 
much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr S that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman