DRN-2725498
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was misled about a balance transfer by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard).
What happened
Mr M wanted to organise a balance transfer onto his Barclaycard. He called them. He was 
offered 0% interest for as long as the amount transferred remained. This was an error by 
Barclaycard. He transferred £4,350 in November 2020. He paid debit interest of £7.14 in 
November 2020. 
Mr M complained  he said that he was offered the deal by Barclaycard and so they should 
honour it. Hed paid interest as a result of what happened.
Barclaycard apologised. Theyd made an error. They refunded the debit interest paid of 
£7.14 and paid £250 compensation - £50 as an apology and £200 to cover any balance 
transfer fees Mr M might pay to other lenders. They also gave him an interest free period of 
six months from November 2020.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had apologised and 
offered to put things right. But in view of their error, Mr M had the inconvenience of trying to 
find another offer  and then applying for a new card with that lender. So, Barclaycard 
should pay another £50 compensation. In discussion with Barclaycard, they also offered to 
give Mr M a rate of 6.9% APR on his card for the life of the balance  after the six months 
interest free period ran out. The conditions of that were that Mr M must make minimum 
payments on time  and if they are late or missed, then the rate would revert to the 
contractual rate at the time. These were standard balance transfer terms.
Mr M rejected the offer and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr M is coming from  he was offered 0% for as long as the debt on the 
balance transferred remained. So  he says Barclaycard should honour that. My role is to 
decide whether Barclaycard acted fairly in dealing with Mr M, given what happened. We are 
not here to punish Barclaycard, but to ensure they did the right thing after what happened. 
And I think they did. I will explain why.
Barclaycard readily admitted that they made a mistake. This was an error by the call handler 
when Mr M contacted them. They though the call handler confused its zero-balance transfer 
fee with the interest rate offer. They paid Mr M £250 compensation and gave him an interest 
free period for six months  from November 2020. Theyve also agreed to pay a further £50 
 and give Mr M a rate of 6.9% APR after the six- month free period ends  for the lifetime of 
the balance. The conditions of that are that Mr M must make the minimum monthly 
payments  thats quite normal and reasonable. Mr M has rejected this and wants 
Barclaycard to give him interest free borrowing on the amount transferred forever.
But  balance transfer deals are only ever for a limited time period. To compare what 
Barclaycard are offering to Mr M, Ive looked at what other deals are available in the market. 
Typically, balance transfers are offered for 18 to 24 months, with a transfer fee of 1.25%. 
And then the borrowing reverts to a commercial rate. In Barclaycards case, thats now 
21.9% APR. I dont know how much in total Mr M was looking to transfer to Barclaycard  
but he did transfer £4,350 in November 2020. And, he had a limit of £3,250 in January 2021. 
Of course  nothing is going to be as good as an interest rate of 0% forever. But  in the 
context of what else is available, I think what Barclaycard are now offering is appropriate. 
And  its what wed expect to see for what happened.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly and so he will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont 
be asking Barclaycard to do anymore here. Theyve offered Mr M a further £50 and a rate of 
6.9% APR on his borrowing  and if he wishes to accept that, he should get in touch with 
Barclaycard.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman