DRN-2351260
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
his buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has insured his building and contents with Triton for several years. In March 2019 he 
received a renewal quote from Triton, to continue his buildings and contents insurance cover 
with a new insurer. To ensure his policy remained in force, Mr S paid the full premium before 
the renewal date. The amount paid was £1,112.51 and new policy documents were sent to 
Mr S.
In February 2020 Mr S tried to report two claims to Triton in quick succession. A recent 
storm had caused damage to his greenhouse and led to flood damage inside his house. 
He called Tritons office number, but it wasnt accepting incoming calls. So, he left a 
message on the mobile number that hed been provided with. Mr S never received a 
response from Triton. Because of this, and because he needed to ensure repairs were 
covered as part of his policy, he decided to speak to the insurer shown on his paperwork 
from Triton. The insurer told Mr S that Triton hadnt passed his insurance premium to them 
and hadnt set his new policy up. The insurer told Mr S they had cancelled their agreement 
with Triton in January 2019. They told Mr S that any policy he thought he had with them 
wasnt valid and he should contact Triton to make a complaint. 
Mr S tried to make a complaint to Triton, but he was unable to get through to them. A letter 
he sent to their registered address was also returned to him as undeliverable. So, he asked 
our service to look into this for him. In the meantime, Mr S was arranging for the repairs to 
be carried out himself. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr S. She asked Triton to treat Mr S as if he was insured and to 
arrange to settle his claim. She also said Triton should pay interest on that amount and pay 
Mr S £100 compensation for the upset the matter had caused him.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr S has provided. I find his 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mr S paid Triton before his policy expired to ensure his policy remained active. And, once he 
was aware that he didnt have any insurance cover in force, he made sure he sought cover 
with an alternative insurer. 
The insurer shown on Mr S paperwork from Triton has confirmed that Triton never passed 
on Mr S premium payment to them and never asked them to set up a policy. They also 
confirmed that they had cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019, which was 
prior to Triton offering Mr S this policy. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Mr S 
with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton didnt set Mr S 
policy up as he intended them to do, and that Triton never passed Mr S payment to the 
insurer shown on his paperwork. Im also satisfied that this policy should never have been 
offered to Mr S by Triton, as the specified insurer were no longer allowing Triton to set 
policies up on their behalf. 
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to have to put Mr S back into the position he would have 
been if Triton had acted as they should have as Mr S insurance broker. They should now 
act as Mr S insurer and should cover Mr S insured losses, allowing for the policy excess. 
Triton should also pay interest at 8% simple from the date of Mr S claims until the date this 
is settled. 
Mr S has also confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton to report his claim, and he wasnt 
able to get through to anyone. Tritons phone lines werent connecting or being answered, 
and his mail was returned to him. Mr S only found out that his policy wasnt in force when he 
called the insurer shown on his paperwork. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for 
Triton to pay Mr S £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the 
inconvenience and upset caused in this case.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Treat Mr S as if he were insured;
Pay for all Mr S costs that wouldve been covered by the policy, minus any relevant 
policy excess;
Pay interest to Mr S at 8% simple on the amount due from the date of the claims until 
the date of settlement; *
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman