DRN-3442045
The complaint
Miss A complains N26 Bank GmbH unfairly recorded a Cifas marker against her on the 
national fraud database. She wants the marker removed.
What happened
Our investigator stated the background facts that led to Miss As complaint in their view. I 
find no need to repeat everything they said here. But in summary, Miss A opened an account 
with N26 in 2019. She says she opened the account to sell personal items to help fund her 
move to a new property, and she advertised them on a well-known social media 
marketplace.
Shortly after opening her account Miss A received a payment. N26 were contacted by the 
payers bank to report the payment as fraud. N26 closed her account immediately and 
recorded a misuse of facility marker with Cifas.
Miss A discovered the marker in 2020 after making a subject access request to Cifas. This 
followed an unsuccessful credit card application. She complained to N26 and said the 
marker was unfair. She said the payer had raised a false claim to get the item for free.
N26 said they fairly recorded the marker. Unhappy with their response, Miss A brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Miss A has told our service about medical conditions she has, as well as her having a prior 
addiction to online gambling. She says these are relevant factors to explain how she used 
her account and what she remembered about the payment in question.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. In summary, they found:
N26 recorded a misuse of facility Cifas marker against Miss A. To do so, they didnt 
need to prove Miss A was guilty of a financial crime. But they still needed to have 
reasonable grounds to believe that she was, and there needed to be enough clear, 
relevant, and rigorous evidence for them to confidently report her to the police. This 
is the standard of proof Cifas require.
Miss A said the payment in question was for the sale of a personal item. But the 
payment reference referred to driver support. It was unlikely the payer would put 
this as a reference if they were paying for the item Miss A says she sold.
Miss A initially said she quickly withdrew payments made into her account. This was 
because not having funds in her account reduced the risk of her using those funds to 
gamble. But the evidence showed she didnt withdraw the payment, but instead she 
sent the payments to an account belonging to someone else. 
After revealing this to Miss A, her version of events changed to saying she first paid 
the funds to a friend and they went together to withdraw the funds. This was because 
she had yet to be issued a debit card by N26. She said her friend accompanied her 
because she felt unable to withdraw funds alone due to how a medical condition 
affected her. Miss A also has another medical condition which she says explains why 
she didnt fully remember what had happened before, but this wasnt persuasive 
enough to explain the different versions of events she had given. 
Miss A said she couldnt provide proof of selling goods because she had deactivated 
her social media account and couldnt reactivate it because she couldnt access the 
email account it was connected to. But it was unlikely she would have had no 
evidence to demonstrate the sales she says she made.
Cifas reviewed whether the marker was properly recorded and confirmed it was.
Miss A disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. In summary she said:
She has never been suspected of wrongdoing by any other bank, and she would not 
risk her career, prior educational efforts, and integrity, by committing fraud.
She never thought she needed to retain evidence of the sales but had N26 asked her 
questions about the payment before recording the marker she could have provided 
screenshots and evidence of her communication with the buyer.
She cant now provide further evidence as she cant access her old email account to 
reactivate her social media account. Her mobile phone number has changed so she 
cant use two-factor authentication.
The buyer intended to defraud her, so they purposely put a strange payment 
reference which conflicted with the description of what they had bought. She never 
saw the reference before she withdrew the funds and would have confronted the 
buyer had she seen it. 
She feels she is being penalised and discriminated against because her medical 
condition affected her memory of what happened several years ago.
Its very unfair that N26 dont have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that she was 
guilty of fraud.
Miss A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has been given to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold Miss As complaint. I want Miss A to know I have listened to 
everything she has said, and I have referred to her points where relevant.
There is a difference between what a firm like N26 must establish to record a Cifas marker, 
to the standard needed to convict someone of fraud or another financial crime. N26 do not 
have to establish Miss A was guilty of fraud or a financial crime beyond a reasonable doubt. 
Neither do they need to have contacted the police for them to have carried out a criminal 
investigation.Miss A disagrees N26 should be able to record a marker based on a lesser standard of 
proof. But the rightfulness of fraud prevention agencies and the standard of proof they 
require of members is a matter for the courts or Parliament to consider. Cifas is a widely 
used fraud prevention agency and its standard of proof has existed for some time. So, my 
role here is not to consider the rightfulness of firms being able to record fraud markers based 
on a lesser evidential standard than that required by a criminal court of law.
The investigator set out the standard of proof Cifas requires of its members to record a 
marker. So, I must consider whether the standard of evidence is enough in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the marker to remain. Based on all the information I 
have; Im satisfied Cifas evidential standard has been met.
Firstly, I must be clear that I cant know for certain what happened in relation to the payment 
which was reported as fraud. So, when facts are less clear, I need to draw conclusions 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And, one of the factors I 
need to account for is how credible and persuasive Miss As explanation for what happened 
is when weighed against the other information and evidence available to me.
Miss A says she deleted her social media account and cant access her old email account. 
Its possible that this is true. But I must also consider that the reason why Miss A cant 
provide evidence to verify what she has said is because the payment she received did not 
represent the sale of an item she owned.
Miss A says the buyer probably used the conflicting payment reference because they 
intended to defraud her. I have weighed what she said against the other information which 
informed N26s decision to record a marker, along with the fraud report. And, based on what 
I have seen, I find its unlikely the payers reference was done to defraud Miss A. N26 could 
have contacted Miss A before recording the Cifas marker. But, even if they had, based on 
the persuasiveness of the information I have seen, I doubt she would have been able to 
present compelling evidence that she did sell the item to the payer.
Miss A says her version of events changed because of how one of her medical conditions 
affects her memory. I have reviewed the medical evidence she presented, and it shows her 
condition impacts her working memory. The evidence does not discuss how her long-term 
memory is affected, but I acknowledge its possible that her long-term memory is affected to 
the extent that she initially failed to recall sending funds to her friend. But whether or not 
Miss A accompanied her friend to withdraw the funds from her friends account doesnt 
establish that the payment she received was for the sale of a personal item. Instead, I find 
the evidence I have seen weighs against this being the case.
N26 said they received the report from the payers bank in 2020 in their final response letter 
to Miss A, which of course would have been some time after her account was closed. This is 
clearly an error, as the report was received in 2019 when Miss As account was open. I 
understand why this would be concerning for Miss A. But I am not persuaded this shows 
N26 didnt have sufficient information to record the Cifas marker. I find they did. I also dont 
find the fact that no other bank has recorded a marker against Miss A shows N26 acted 
unfairly- I find their decision was based on the evidence and information they held.
N26 no longer provides services in the United Kingdom. But I dont find this is a relevant 
reason to direct them to remove the Cifas marker. A Cifas marker and how long it lasts is not 
contingent on a firm continuing to provide services into the United Kingdom after its 
recorded.  
On balance, I find N26 had reasonable grounds to believe Miss A was knowingly involved in 
a fraud or financial crime, and there was enough evidence for them to have confidently 
reported her conduct to the police. So, I find N26 met the evidential standard set out by 
Cifas, and I am not going to tell them to remove the Cifas marker. I also find N26 were 
entitled to close Mr Es account immediately given their concerns.My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman