DRN-2361722
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received during a phone call with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) about the rules relating to his premium bonds.
What happened
Mr H called NS&I in March 2020 to ask it whether the rules relating to his premium bonds 
allowed NS&I to prevent a customer from cashing in a premium bond. 
The first person that Mr H spoke to wasnt clear on the question hed asked, so they passed 
Mr H to a second representative who told him that there were no rules to prevent bonds 
being cashed in. Mr H asked the NS&I representative to point out specific rules relating to 
his query. She directed Mr H to the relevant rules online, but when Mr H said that he was not 
internet enabled, the representative offered to send Mr H the rules hed asked for.
Unsatisfied with the way the call was being handled, Mr H asked to raise a complaint. Mr H 
expressed particular dissatisfaction with the time it had taken to answer his query, and that 
the representative would not apologise for the way the call had been handled. Ultimately, 
that representative ended the call after Mr H invited them to a number of times.
NS&I subsequently sent Mr H the brochures it thought contained the rules relevant to his 
question. He responded to say that one of the brochures referred to another document which 
not present, and he said his original query had not been properly or adequately answered.
NS&I issued a final response to Mr Hs complaint. It accepted that its first representative 
misunderstood Mr Hs query, but it said that the second representative answered it correctly. 
Overall it thought the call was handled appropriately and politely.
Mr H referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator considered the complaint and 
concluded that NS&I had not done anything wrong, so she did not uphold the complaint.
Although Mr H didnt tell us why he disagreed, he asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision, so its been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I accept that the first NS&I representative Mr H spoke to misunderstood the question 
hed asked. That meant they had to place Mr H on hold and pass him through to a second 
representative. Whilst it may have taken slightly longer than he may have expected to 
receive an answer to his query, the second representative was able to answer Mr Hs 
queries. 
NS&I accepts that that it didnt send all of the brochures it could have to Mr H initially, but it 
did send the last one roughly a week later when it issued its final response. It also said that 
the information the missing brochure contained pertaining to his query was duplicated in 
another brochure that it had already sent him. So, I dont think that Mr H was disadvantaged 
by NS&Is failure to include that specific brochure in its initial response. 
With reference to Mr Hs assertion that his query has not been answered; the question he 
posed was a broad one, asked without context and one of a hypothetical nature. All things 
considered, I find that the answer NS&I gave Mr H was a reasonable one; it referred to its 
rules which gave an overview as to how and when its customers can cash in their premium 
bonds. The rules it sent also gave examples of when NS&I may not act on instructions from 
its customers. In reality, I wouldnt expect NS&I to discuss each and every scenario or 
possibility under which a customer might be prevented from cashing in a bond, especially 
without being given more specific context by Mr H. 
In conclusion, while I dont underestimate Mr Hs strength of feelings on the matter, I think 
its fair to say that both NS&I representatives handled Mr Hs query appropriately and 
politely, and provided a reasonable level of service under what I consider to be repeated 
challenging questions posed by Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman