DRN-4435027
The complaint
Mr P complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited trading as Crowdcube didnt conduct 
appropriate due diligence in the event of a company hed invested in through the platform 
becoming publicly listed on a stock exchange. 
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business 
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to 
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business. 
Mr P invested €19.42 in a Spanish company (Company A) through Crowdcubes 
crowdfunding platform. In return for his investment, Mr P received shares in Company A in 
October 2021. These were held by Crowdcubes nominee business on behalf of Mr P.
In early 2022, Crowdcube was approached by Company A regarding a possible Initial Public 
Offering (IPO). On 29 June 2022, Company A became listed on the BME Growth market in 
Spain. This meant that Mr P should have been able to find a secondary market for his 
shares. However, Crowdcube doesnt have the ability to trade listed shares following an IPO 
and so it had to find a partner that would assist in transferring shares from the nominee  
directly to the broker accounts of beneficial owners - allowing Mr P to access his shares.
Mr P was unhappy as he felt Crowdcube ought to have had plans in place for a potential IPO 
before allowing him to invest in Company A.
In July 2022, Crowdcube entered into an agreement with a Spanish partner (B) to assist 
with this and investors were asked to provide broker details according to the requirements of 
B in August 2022. Mr P provided details for a UK broker account and in December 2022. 
However, B informed Crowdcube that it could not transfer to this UK broker account as the 
broker would not accept the shares. 
Unhappy with the delays and inability have his shares transferred, Mr P referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
In May 2023, Mr P provided details for a new broker but again B informed Crowdcube that 
this broker wasnt suitable. On 15 May 2023, Crowdcube emailed Mr P and provided a list of  
brokers who had successfully accepted Company A share transfers. Mr P opened an 
account with one of these brokers, but it has since transpired that the correct broker was the 
Spanish entity and not the UK entity Mr P had contacted. 
Following the referral of the complaint to this service, Crowdcube wrote to Mr P with a final 
response in September 2023. In summary, it said:
An IPO is one of the most complex exit situations for any company that raises 
through the platform, particularly within a foreign jurisdiction. 
It acknowledged that the process was longer and more complicated than initially 
anticipated and the frustration this has caused Mr P to experience.
However, throughout the process it has not deliberately sought to obstruct or prevent 
him from receiving his shares. 
Accessing the shares required a partner in Spain willing to work with it, complete the  
substantial initial due diligence requirements of that partner (which took 5 months) 
and then working within the requirements that partner set. 
It has worked to find this partner and guide investors through this system and 
requirements, and done so successfully for the vast majority of Company A investors. 
However it is dependent on each individual setting up a broker and providing the right 
information.
It promised to continue to work with B and Mr Ps latest broker to get access for Mr P 
to his shares.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and partially upheld it. In summary, 
they said:
Crowdcubes role is to oversee the process, communicate with investors, and work 
with partner institutions, such as B, to ensure the accurate and compliant transfer of 
shares from the crowdfunding platform to investors broker accounts. They were 
satisfied Crowdcube is doing this.
Whilst they understood Mr P has been waiting more than a year to access his 
shares, as he doesnt intend on selling his shares immediately, theres no financial 
loss or missed opportunity in terms of selling his shares at specific market prices.
They acknowledged Crowdcube should provide fair, clear, and not misleading 
information and it had failed to do so when it provided the list of acceptable brokers. 
They said Crowdcube ought to have clarified that it was the Spanish entity that Mr P 
needed to contact. 
Crowdcube should pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Crowdcube accepted the investigators finding but Mr P didnt. He said he wouldnt have 
initially invested had he been made aware that he would eventually have to open a Spanish 
account in order to access his shares. He remained unhappy that Crowdcube conducted no 
due diligence prior to the fundraising to see how the shares would be transferred to a UK 
broker. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the 
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing Mr P to invest in Company A, it would 
continue to be acting in his best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these 
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something 
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the 
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of 
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved. 
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based. 
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November 
2019 which explained that firms should: 
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion 
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The 
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will 
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other 
things):
The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr P had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers 
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the 
time. 
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This 
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says 
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies. 
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due 
diligence charter. It explains: The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to 
investment: [] to fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to 
ensure it is fair, clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent 
evidence. 
Considering the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be sufficient to 
satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A was based. 
Crowdcube also needed to make Mr P aware of the extent of which it performed due 
diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome of this and for it to be sufficiently 
detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of investing in Company A. 
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that Crowdcube didnt conduct sufficient due diligence to 
understand how investors could access their shares in the event of an IPO of Company As 
shares.  However, there is no mention of Company As plans for an IPO contained within the 
pitch. Therefore, as Crowdcubes due diligence was limited to the information contained 
within the pitch, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Crowdcube to conduct checks on 
this. Whilst I appreciate Mr P thinks Crowdcube ought to have planned for this eventuality, I 
dont think Crowdcube was able to make arrangements until Company A made it aware of its 
plans for an IPO. This is because there are several variables which Crowdcube would need 
to consider, such as which stock exchange Company A would list on, that countrys 
regulatory requirements and which partner it could work with to facilitate the brokerage of 
investors shares. So I dont think Crowdcube has acted unfairly in not conducting due 
diligence on the possibility of an IPO. 
Clearly the IPO was a complex exit situation for Crowdcube to deal with, mainly due to it 
being within a foreign jurisdiction. There is no regulatory requirement for Crowdcube to 
complete the exit within a specified timeframe. However it has acknowledged that it has 
taken longer than it initially anticipated. I agree with the investigators findings that this 
timeframe fell outside of Crowdcubes control and Im persuaded Crowdcube has been 
acting in Mr Ps best interests to try and facilitate the brokerage of his shares. I understand 
Mr Ps frustration as hes been fully co-operated with Crowdcubes requests and has 
suggested several UK brokers to use. But unfortunately, it has been B who has declined to 
accept these brokers which is beyond Crowdcubes control. However, I agree with the 
investigator that the email Crowdcube sent to Mr P listing the accepted brokers was 
misleading. This is because it should have explained that the particular broker was the 
Spanish entity and not the UK entity Mr P approached. The investigator has suggested an 
award for £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this misinformation, which 
Crowdcube has accepted. I dont think the offer is unreasonable and is substantially more 
than Mr P initially invested and so I wont be recommending any further compensation be 
awarded.
Crowdcube have recently confirmed to this service that other Crowdcube investors based in 
the UK have been able to open an account with the Spanish entity and have access to their 
Company A shares. So this seems to be a viable option for Mr P to pursue. 
Putting things right
Crowdcube should pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint against Crowdcube Capital 
Limited trading as Crowdcube.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman