DRN-4096369
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr L complain about the way that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation 
Home Loans administered their buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr L have a buy-to-let mortgage with Foundation. 
The mortgage has been in arrears for a number of years. During that time Mrs C and Mr L 
have entered into payment arrangements with Foundation. 
Mrs C and Mr L complain that Foundation has incorrectly and unfairly recorded missed 
payments on their credit file when they have maintained the agreed repayments under the 
arrangements. They said that they were told arrangements theyd agreed with Foundation 
were ongoing and it told them that it was fine to make the payment at different times of the 
month. 
Mrs C and Mr L consider they have paid what was agreed with Foundation. Despite that, 
Foundation has unfairly recorded missed payments on their credit files.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C and Mr L did not agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unregulated buy-to-let mortgage. The rules that apply to residential mortgages do 
not apply here. But I can see that Foundation has given Mrs C and Mr L a considerable 
amount of forbearance, bearing in mind the arrears on the account and the length of time the 
mortgage has been in arrears. But I can still consider what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It would be unusual for a mortgage lender to agree an open ended and ongoing payment 
arrangement to clear arrears. It is reasonable and in line with good practice for it to review 
the arrangement from time to time. This reflects that borrowers circumstances can change. 
What is a reasonable time to review will depend on the individual circumstances of the 
borrower and the way the mortgage has been conducted.
In this case, Foundation has agreed payment arrangements lasting for three and six months. 
That does not seem unreasonable bearing in mind what Mr L has told it about his 
circumstances and the overall circumstances here. 
Each time Foundation has agreed a payment arrangement it has written to Mrs C and Mr L. 
The letters set out the payments that have been agreed under each arrangement and the 
due date of each payment. I cant see that any of the letters say that the payment 
arrangement was ongoing.
Ive also reviewed the notes of the conversations Mr L has had with Foundation. I cant see 
any evidence that Foundation led Mrs C and Mr L to believe that any payment arrangements 
were open-ended or ongoing. It follows, there was a reasonable expectation that Mrs C and 
Mr L would need to contact Foundation when the agreed payment arrangements were 
coming to an end if they wished to put a new payment arrangement in place.
Looking specifically at the August payment, Foundation has given us a copy of an email it 
sent to Mr L on 17 August 2021 to tell him that the arrangement had ended and that he 
would need to contact it to put forward his proposals to clear the remaining arrears.
I am satisfied that Foundation took adequate steps to tell Mrs C and Mr L what the payment 
arrangement was and when it ended. I am not persuaded that Foundation told Mrs C and Mr 
L  or led them to believe  that the payment arrangements were open ended or ongoing.
On 7 September 2021, Foundation emailed Mr L again. It said that it hadnt received a reply 
to its email of 17 August and reiterated that Mrs C and Mr L would need to contact it to 
discuss future repayments towards the arrears. 
Although Mrs C and Mr L made a payment on 25 August 2021, I cant see that it was under 
a payment arrangement agreed by Foundation. So it was reasonable for Foundation to 
record a missed payment and/or the number of months the mortgage was in arrears with 
credit reference agencies. The same would apply for any other months where a payment 
arrangement had lapsed and a new arrangement had not been agreed. 
In regard to the timing of payments in each month, Foundation has told us it wouldnt regard 
a payment as being late if it is made at any point within the month it was due. I cant see that 
it ever gave Mrs C and Mr L any conflicting information about that. And in any event, Mrs C 
have made a payment in the month it was due every month from May 2020 until December 
2021. So any late or missed payments during that period are due to arrangements not being 
in place, rather than the date the payment was made. If there is no agreed arrangement in 
place, Foundation is entitled to report the number of months in arrears to credit reference 
agencies. 
I dont consider there has been any error by Foundation in this case. In the circumstances, I 
consider it has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman