DRN-3249155
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a Gold Service AVA Packaged Bank Account (PBA) by 
Lloyds Bank PLC. He says that he was led to believe he needed it to keep his overdraft, and 
that the benefits were of no use to him. He would like a refund of the account fees.
What happened
It isnt certain when this sale took place. The account was opened in 1989 as a fee free 
account, and was a fee-paying Gold PBA by September 2001. Mr K says the upgrade 
probably happened in 1998, and I have seen nothing to contradict that. In any event, the 
cost and main benefits of the account were broadly the same between its introduction and 
September 2001. So the exact date isnt crucial to my considerations.
Mr K says that this account was a free student, then graduate, account before 1998, and that 
when he no longer qualified for a graduate account, Lloyds advised him to upgrade to this 
Gold PBA, in Mr Ks words, to keep a preferential interest rate and save money in the 
long run At the time in question, the account cost £8 per month and the key benefits were 
worldwide travel insurance and banking benefits in the form of a £100 interest free overdraft, 
and likely preferential interest rates on balances beyond that amount.
Mr K downgraded to a free account in 2021 and complained to Lloyds that the PBA had 
been mis-sold to him. Lloyds rejected that and Mr K brought his case to this service. The 
adjudicator considered the evidence and concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong, 
so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K does not accept that and asked an ombudsman to look 
at things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to set out the parameters of this decision from the outset. Under consideration is 
the sale of a PBA on an unspecified date, but certainly more than 20 years ago. Any 
changes to the PBA since that time, including cost and benefits, are not relevant, as there is 
no further sale in question. There is no requirement for a bank to consider the ongoing value 
for money of a particular account option for its customers.
So I need to consider whether, in 1998, Mr K knew that he had a choice, and didnt have to 
agree to this PBA. And then whether Lloyds advising him that it was suitable for his needs 
was incorrect or not. And I have to reach my decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
Given the age of the sale, it is to be expected that there is limited information about how Mr 
K used the account and its benefits for the majority of the time that it was in place. And no 
documentation from the sale itself.
Mr K hasnt been entirely clear what his concerns are around the overdraft facility, and 
therefore whether he knew that he didnt have to agree to the PBA in order to simply have 
one. At times in his testimony he has suggested that was the case. However, he has also 
several times said that he was told he would need the Gold PBA to keep a preferential 
interest rate on his overdraft. That was probably true: a fee free classic account neither 
offered the first £100 of the overdraft interest free, and very likely came with higher interest 
rates on the rest of the borrowing. I cannot confirm this for definite, due to a lack of full 
documentation from the time. But on the balance of probabilities, based on some paperwork, 
and our experience of how Lloyds structured its PBA offer at this time, I think it is most likely.
So, I havent seen strong enough evidence to conclude that Lloyds lied to Mr K and told him 
that he had to have the Gold PBA in order to continue to have an overdraft at all. I think its 
more likely that he was correctly told he needed it to have a preferential interest rate.
Mr K clearly feels that, over more than two decades, he hasnt saved enough money through 
the benefits of the PBA to justify the cost to him. That may well be the case, but that does 
not mean that it was mis-sold to him in 1998. Its impossible to know for sure now how much 
he saved on his overdraft by virtue of having the Gold PBA. But if a Lloyds staff member 
presented it to him in 1998 as being a way to save money in the long run, I have no 
evidence to say that was an obvious misrepresentation of the facts at the time.
The other main benefit of the account was worldwide travel insurance. Mr K has vehemently 
expressed that the benefit was never of any use to him as it didnt cover his whole family, 
and had too many limitations for it to cover him, seemingly for business travel. So he says he 
never intended to rely on it, and always relied instead on cover that came through a credit 
card provider.
The evidence suggests that isnt the case, as records show that Mr K contacted the 
underwriter about the travel insurance five times between 2009 and 2016, and indeed the 
evidence suggests he made successful claims in 2009 and 2014. I dont have records going 
back further than that, unsurprisingly. So whether he used the cover before then I cannot 
say. But the idea that from the outset he knew the travel insurance would never be any use 
to him, and he would always rely on a superior alternative policy, isnt supported by the 
evidence. He certainly accepts that he has always travelled, and had a need for some cover.
Mr K says that the travel insurance that came with this PBA was no use to him from the 
outset as he travelled more frequently than the Lloyds travel insurance cover would 
provide for, that frequency therefore invalidating the cover as a whole. I have looked very 
carefully at the full terms and conditions closest to the time in question and can find no 
mention of frequency of trips leading to cover being invalid. Certainly it is standard in travel 
insurance policies that the duration of each trip is limited  usually to around 30 days  but 
longer trips can be covered with the payment of an additional premium. And there is nothing 
in the terms and conditions which suggests that the frequency of travel abroad would limit or 
invalidate cover. So I dont think Mr Ks concerns on this issue are a reason to uphold his 
complaint.
So the evidence does not lead me to conclude that Lloyds advice that this PBA was a good 
fit for Mr Ks needs was wrong. Whether he ultimately got as much value out of it as he may 
have hoped is not relevant. After all, most insurance products are ultimately not needed  
but that does not mean they were mis-sold. It simply means the negative event we are trying 
to protect ourselves from didnt happen. Based on the benefits this PBA came with in 1998, I 
think Mr K agreed to it knowing he didnt have to, and that Lloyds wasnt wrong to 
recommend it to him.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman