DRN-2558881
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after their business 
was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms O, director of K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf.
 
What happened
K hold a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They claimed on their policy after 
their business closed due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. Ms O said 
the employees couldnt go into work as they were from different households. And theyd 
experienced losses due to customers not paying money they owed on outstanding balances, 
which they thought should be covered by the book debts cover on their policy. 
 
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable 
disease at the premises, K had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As K hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19 at their 
business premises, RSA turned down their claim.
 
K were unhappy with RSAs response and brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought RSA 
had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the premises. 
And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt covered.  
 
K didnt think this was a fair outcome and referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. They asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
K. But, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ks claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Ks policy covers loss as a result of: 
 
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this extension covers Ks claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the business premises to 
have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the 
premises. However, K confirmed that they closed as a result of the Governments response 
to the pandemic. As K havent indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises, 
I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline their claim. 
 
K have referred to the Supreme Court judgment. However, the terms considered in the test 
case were different to the those in Ks policy and, as K havent indicated that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at their businesss premises, the judgment doesnt affect the outcome of 
their claim.  
I can see Ks schedule shows they have cover for book debts and K asked if this would 
cover any outstanding balances theyre owed by their customers. But this would require 
physical damage to property to have occurred, which prevented K from tracing their 
customers outstanding debit balances. As I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19 
caused physical damage to property which prevented K from tracing their customers 
outstanding debt balances, Im afraid this doesnt provide cover for their claim. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome K were hoping for but, having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman