DRN-3552275
The complaint
Miss L complains that Legal and General (L&G) delayed providing her with pension 
information she required for a legal dispute with her former employer about unfair dismissal. 
This has caused her financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
Miss Ls pension has since been taken over by ReAssure Limited who are responsible to 
deal with this complaint.
What happened
On 9 April 2020, Miss L requested a contribution history and projections for her pension. She 
required this to substantiate the losses to her pension caused by her former employer 
stopping her pension contributions when they ended her employment. On 22 May she 
received a list of all contributions to her pension. She was informed that the request for 
valuations had been referred to L&Gs actuarial department and that the turnaround time 
was currently 6-12 weeks. 
In July 2020, when Miss L had not received the requested information she called L&G to 
chase them. Miss D said she explained that that she urgently needed the valuations 
requested and there was a court deadline to submit all documents by the 29 July. Miss D 
says she explained that there were also ongoing discussions to settle the complaint before 
the hearing in September and details of the pension losses were needed for these 
negotiations.
Miss L says she spoke to a case handler on 23 July who was very apologetic and didnt 
understand why the valuations were taking so long as the information could be obtained by a 
simple computer projection. He said he would raise an urgent query with the actuarial 
department. On 27 July Miss L received an email from the same case handler that he had 
not yet received a response. He said if they hadnt heard back from the actuarial department 
by Wednesday (which was 29 Jul), Miss D would receive something in the post by the admin 
department. Miss D says she got another email on 28 July that the actuaries would work to a 
turnaround time of 6-12 weeks (depending on other projects) but that they would continue to 
chase.
On 14 August Miss D settled with her former employer out of court. A single £40,000 
contribution was made to the pension by the employer as part of the settlement.
Coincidently, L&G issued the requested information in a letter also dated 14 August. Miss D 
received it on 18 August.
Miss D says if she had received the information earlier her solicitor could have negotiated a 
higher settlement. It was clear from L&Gs projections that £40,000 were nowhere near 
enough to cover her pension losses. However without this evidence her solicitor was at a 
significant disadvantage.
Miss D complained in October 2020. ReAssure responded to Miss Ds complaint in January 
2021. They said they didnt know what the basis of Miss Ds awarded payment was based 
on and asked for further documents to establish whether not having the projections affected 
the award. They said the information was provided 12 weeks after the letter sent on 22 May 
where this timeframe was explained. However, they apologised for the problems Miss D 
incurred to obtain these projections and for the time it took to respond to the complaint. They 
paid her £500 for the inconvenience the delays had caused her.  
In response, Miss D provided ReAssure with a copy of some of the court papers which 
included a schedule of losses Miss D was looking to claim for. This showed that the pension 
losses were recorded as TBC. She also sent orders which showed the various deadlines to 
submit evidence. She said this showed that the pension information was needed for the 
claim and that it was urgent. She didnt deem £500 sufficient to cover her financial losses.
One of our investigators considered her complaint and decided not to uphold it. He thought 
£500 was a reasonable amount to compensate for the delays experienced. He also said 
Miss D and her solicitors knew there was information outstanding but settled nonetheless. 
They must have deemed the settlement amount fair and reasonable otherwise they could 
have rejected the settlement offer. He said they could have delayed settlement or gone to 
tribunal instead. He didnt think it was fair to ask ReAssure to uplift any settlement amount.
Miss D says the deadline for any information to be submitted and which they could rely on 
had the case gone to tribunal expired on 29 July, so even if they had waited for the 
information they couldnt have used it as evidence. So this wasnt really an option.
Miss D asked for an ombudsmans decision and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont ask ReAssure to pay Miss D any additional compensation.
Looking at Miss Ds initial request for information in April, I can see that she mentioned she 
needed this for a legal dispute but she expressed no particular urgency or explained that 
there were certain time limits. 
The letter in May explained that the request for valuations had been referred to the actuarial 
team and the turnaround time was currently 6-12 weeks. Miss D understood this to be the 
timeframe from her initial request, however the letter does not say this. 
So I think L&G technically did provide the information requested within the time limits they 
informed Miss D of. Having said that, I do agree with Miss D that the time taken here seems 
too long and the referral to the actuarial department should have happened when they 
received the request in April. Ive also taken into account that in July Miss D did chase for 
the information and made it clear it was urgently needed. 
Miss D says the case handler she spoke to in July did not understand why it was taking so 
long and that projections could have been produced quickly. The call recording hasnt been 
provided, but I dont doubt Miss Ds testimony here. However, even though the information 
likely could have been provided earlier, I dont think this affects the outcome of my decision.
ReAssure apologised for the delays and paid Miss D compensation of £500. I can see that 
having to chase urgently needed information would have been distressing and I have taken 
into account that Miss D would have likely been in a stressful situation already being in a 
dispute for unfair dismissal. However, overall, I think the amount paid is fair and reasonable to compensate and apologise for the delays. I know Miss D is also unhappy about the fact it 
took a long time for her complaint to be answered, but complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity and so I cant consider this aspect of her complaint.
Miss D says she could have negotiated a higher settlement and it became clear that the 
pension losses were higher when she received the outstanding information from L&G. 
However, I think it ought to have been reasonably clear to her and her solicitor that pension 
losses would likely be far higher than £40,000 even without the outstanding information and 
they did have evidence to support this. 
Miss D was provided with a history of contributions so she knew  and could evidence- what 
her employer had been paying into her pension every month. Just adding up the 
contributions of around £1,208 per month would have given a reasonable starting point of 
lost pension monies even without knowing details on growth which would not be guaranteed 
anyway. Miss D had asked for projections until 65. Just the contributions alone over the 
following ten years would have accumulated to nearly £145,000 and thats assuming that 
after charges her pension would have not accrued any growth over this period which is 
unlikely. The absence of L&Gs projections (which Miss D knew were outstanding at the time 
she agreed to settle) didnt prevent her and her solicitor in my view to support their case with 
available evidence and their own reasonable assumptions. 
Based on the information available Im not satisfied that Miss D would have gone to tribunal 
if she received the outstanding information sooner. There are many reasons why someone 
might choose to settle outside court including costs and chances of success. And theres not 
enough evidence here for me to conclude that providing the projections from L&G would 
have led to Miss D receiving a higher settlement. Of course, I dont know this for certain. But 
as I said above I think Miss D did have evidence in her possession which supported higher 
losses than £40,000. So Im not persuaded that on the balance of probabilities L&Gs 
information would have made a material difference to Miss Ds compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman