DRN-3339336
The complaint
Mr T complains about the collection of his car and the end of contract charges applied by 
LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) following the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr T entered into a 36 month hire agreement with LeasePlan for a new car. 
The advance rental was £3,616 followed by 35 payments of £602.
At the end of the agreement in July 2020, the car was returned. It was inspected on 10 July 
2020 and it had covered 73,512 miles. Damage was found to the cars bumper and one of 
the wheels. As a result, LeasePlan said Mr T was required to pay £261. They also said he 
exceeded the miles permitted so he needed to pay £3,026. 
Mr T complained that the collection of the car wasnt in line with LeasePlans returns 
process. He said this was because he wasnt present at the inspection, he didnt sign the 
collection report and despite his requests, he didnt get a copy of it until he received the 
invoices for the end of contract charges. He also said the collection report had been 
fraudulently signed. 
Mr T said following the receipt of the invoices he spoke to LeasePlan in July 2020 and it was 
agreed they wouldnt collect these end of contract charges until August 2020 because he 
had made a request for financial assistance given the Covid-19 pandemic. However when 
he complained a few days later, he asked that these payments arent taken until the 
complaint had been investigated and a resolution reached.
LeasePlan debited the charge for the excess mileage from Mr Ts account on 1 September 
2020 however Mr T reversed the charge. He said this left his account overdrawn by £364, he 
was left without money for a few days and this caused him significant worry and upset. 
LeasePlan said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their collection agents were required to make 
changes to their usual returns process and take precautions meaning Mr T wasnt able to be 
present for the collection and review the report. However they said pictures of the damaged 
areas were provided in the subsequent inspection report which was sent to him. They were 
satisfied the damage charges had been fairly applied.
Unhappy with their response, Mr T referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. In summary, they concluded LeasePlan were entitled 
to charge for the damage and excess mileage and given the pandemic it was reasonable 
that restrictions were put in place during the cars collection. Mr T disagreed.
In January 2022, I issued a provisional decision partially upholding the complaint. I said:
End of the hire agreement
In terms of the return of the car, the terms of the hire agreement say:
When we collect or otherwise take possession of the Vehicle it must be in a safe condition 
and in good and substantial repair (Fair Wear and Tear excepted, having regard only to its 
age and mileage). A Vehicle Collection Report will be completed and you will be required to 
agree any apparent damage and sign the Vehicle Collection Report. A detailed inspection 
will take place prior to our selling the Vehicle.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr T has said about when the car was collected, namely 
he wasnt allowed to be present, he wasnt able to view the collection report and it had been 
fraudulently signed. 
Given some of the restrictions due to the pandemic, some businesses wouldve carried out 
their activities differently in order to keep their employees safe, this is most likely to have 
included social distancing measures. I believe thats what happened here with LeasePlans 
agents and I believe this as a fair course of action. Mr T also said the collection report had 
been fraudulently signed as it wasnt his signature but I dont think its fair for him to say this. 
Having reviewed the report, I can see the signature box says Covid19. Therefore I think its 
fair to say the collection agent inputted this to demonstrate Mr T wasnt able to sign it due to 
the social distance restrictions they had taken due to the pandemic.
While it mightve been helpful for Mr T to have been present (while being socially distanced) 
and for him to have had the opportunity to dispute any charges, the important thing for me to 
decide is whether the damage was caused while the car was in Mr Ts ownership and 
whether the damage has been fairly charged. 
The inspection was carried out on 26 July 2020 and based on LeasePlans records, I can 
see the subsequent report was sent to Mr T on 28 July 2020. Im satisfied it was sent to him 
in a reasonable amount of time following the collection of the car.
While I accept the returns process wasnt carried out as stated in the agreement, given the 
wider context of the pandemic and the restrictions in place, I believe LeasePlan acted fairly. 
Damage charges
The terms of the hire agreement say LeasePlan can charge for the cost of repair and/or 
replacement of any parts or accessories as a result of loss or damage to the car which they 
believe to be in excess of fair wear and tear, having regard to the cars age and mileage.
In order to do so, LeasePlan said they refer to the guidance published by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry guidance which sets out what is 
considered fair wear and tear when new cars are returned at the end of their agreements. I 
find its reasonable for them to rely on the same and Ive also taken it into account.
Front bumper
The inspection reports said there is a deep scratch on the front bumper. LeasePlan has 
charged £151. The BVRLA says scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal 
is not showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. Having looked at the 
photos, I can see there is a significant scratch and the bare metal can be seen. Although 
there is no measuring tool next to the damage, its clear it exceeds 25mm. Therefore, Im 
satisfied this damage is beyond fair wear and tear and LeasePlan can charge for it. 
Offside front wheel
The inspection report states damage is found on the offside front wheel. LeasePlan has 
charged £75. The BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of 
the wheel are acceptable. Based on the photographs, I can see there are a number of scuff marks around this wheel which I believe is in excess of 50mm. Im satisfied LeasePlan can 
charge for this damage.
Rear bumper
The report states the bumper is broken and LeasePlan has charged £35. I think its fair to 
say given this part of the car is broken this cant be considered fair wear and tear so I find 
LeasePlan are entitled to charge for it. 
Given the car was new when supplied and it had been in Mr Ts possession for around 36 
months, I find its most likely the above damage was caused while in his care. Im not 
persuaded his presence or lack thereof had any bearing on the collection process and what 
was later reported about the damage. Overall I dont consider these charges to be 
excessive.
Excess mileage
The terms of the hire agreement sets the mileage limit at 20,000 miles per year, that is 
60,000 miles throughout the duration of the agreement. It states if this amount is exceeded, 
a charge will apply for each mile. 
Separately, as part of the hire agreement I can also see when Mr T opted to take out an 
optional maintenance service, LeasePlan has explained for this service they arrange and 
cover the cost of MOTs, services and any repair work. In the event the maximum mileage is 
exceeded, the agreement sets out how much LeasePlan will charge per mile for the optional 
maintenance service product. 
When supplied, the car was new. When it was returned, it had travelled 73,512 miles. In this 
case, the permitted mileage allowance had exceeded over 13,500 miles therefore as per the 
agreement, LeasePlan were entitled to apply these excess mileage charges including that 
for the optional maintenance service.
Mr T said he was unhappy the charge for the excess mileage (£3,026) was taken from his 
bank account despite his requests for LeasePlan not to do so. LeasePlan said as he hadnt 
disputed this charge, they were entitled to debit this payment from his account. 
However Ive seen a copy of an email sent to LeasePlan from Mr T on 28 July which says:
I would therefore like to raise a formal complaint. I note that during our telephone call you 
agreed to push back my payments (invoices attached) date to the end of August, pending 
my request for a financial assistance request due to Covid as per the link below. I am now 
requesting that you freeze these payments totally until an investigation into my complaint 
has been conducted and a resolution agreed
I havent been provided with notes or a copy of this call recording so I dont know what was 
said or agreed. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr T complained about the damage 
charges but I dont have enough evidence to show he also complained about the excess 
mileage charges.  However based on the above email, I believe it was clear that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty due to the pandemic, he had requested assistance and he 
asked that the payment for the invoices werent taken.
When consumers are facing financial difficulty, the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) says A firm must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. However in this case, I cant see 
this happened, instead £3,026 was debited from Mr Ts account. I find this to be a significant amount for a person who has let LeasePlan know they are suffering financial difficulty. So I 
believe it wouldve been fair for LeasePlan to have checked with Mr T before debiting this 
amount given his email. Overall, I cant say LeasePlan showed the forbearance and due 
consideration that I would expect. 
Mr T said as a result of this payment being taken, it led to him being overdrawn by over 
£360. He has provided a copy of his bank statement showing the same and it also shows he 
had an overdraft limit of £10. He said he was unable to pay bills for a few days before he 
was able to reverse the transaction. Fortunately, he hasnt said he incurred overdraft fees or 
any other late/missed payment fees as a result. Given Mr Ts financial difficulty at the time 
due to the pandemic, I can understand why this wouldve caused him upset and worry as he 
had fallen into an unarranged overdraft and left without money for bills for a few days. Given 
the worry of this situation and the fact he had to make arrangements to reverse the 
transaction via his bank, I believe LeasePlan should pay him £75 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Summary 
Overall, Im satisfied LeasePlan acted fairly and in line of the terms of the agreement by 
applying the above end of contract charges. However I dont believe they acted fairly by 
debiting the excess mileage fee from Mr Ts account after he told them he was struggling 
financially and required support due to the pandemic. 
If Mr T is still experiencing financial difficulty, I strongly urge LeasePlan to show forbearance 
and due consideration in line with FCAs guidelines for the payment of these charges.
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision but no response was 
received from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
To put things right, LeasePlan UK Limited should pay £75 compensation to Mr T for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman