DRN-1467325
 
The complaint
 Mr S has complained about Highway Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his car insurance policy.
 What happened
 Mr S made a claim under his motor insurance policy in October 2018 after the theft of his 
car. His car was stolen overnight from outside his house. Highway looked into the 
circumstances surrounding the theft and declined his claim. It said that Mr S had failed to 
safeguard against the theft of his car. This was because Mr S had a set of keys stolen from 
his works van months earlier and it implied that the keys must have been used to steal his 
car.
Highway said that Mr S was aware that his car and property were vulnerable which is 
evidenced by the fact that he changed his house locks. But Mr S didnt change his car locks 
at the same time, so it feels he was aware of the risk and deliberately courted it. Mr S wasnt 
happy about this and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and eventually decided that his complaint should 
be upheld. He highlighted that the theft of the keys took place miles away from Mr Ss 
property and that there wasnt any link to his address. And that Mr S changed his house 
locks easily himself and that months had passed before the theft took place. So, he felt that 
Highway should meet the claim.
As Highway didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Although I can understand why Highway decided to decline the claim. I dont think that there 
is sufficient evidence to say that the car was stolen using a genuine key. And that key was 
stolen from Mr Ss works van over four months earlier.
It isnt disputed that Mr S was the victim of crime months before his car was stolen. His car 
and house keys were stolen from his works van and he reported the theft to the police. The 
van was miles away from his home address and I havent been provided with any evidence 
to suggest his home address was identifiable. And I would expect Highway to have 
considered this issue in detail if it thought the stolen keys were used to steal the car. 
Mr S says that he checked with his broker about the need to change his locks on his car. 
And there appears to have been mutual agreement that, as the keys were stolen miles away 
from his home address and there wasnt any link to his home address, it wasnt necessary to 
change the car locks. Highway say the broker told it that it suggested that Mr S should change his locks. But there isnt a copy of that call available and the notes from the time 
dont quite support what Highway have said.
Mr S did change his house lock as he is in the building trade and he had a spare barrel and 
key at home. So it was a simple job for him to undertake. But the cost of changing his cars 
locks was high and as there wasnt a link to his address, he didnt think his car was at risk.
Highway havent really considered whether his car was stolen by some other means and it is 
quite likely that it was. I say this as these types of cars are desirable and are relatively easily 
to steal when thieves have the right equipment. I wouldve expected Highway to have 
considered this, but it hasnt. It could have appointed an investigator to consider this issue 
and make enquiries locally, perhaps with the police, about similar thefts in the area but it 
didnt. Given what is at stake for Mr S this surprises me.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Highway to settle the claim. And pay simple interest for the time Mr S has been without 
payment.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint and I require Highway 
Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. And to pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman