DRN-1417043
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Leeds Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr R arranged his mortgage via a broker in 2008 although the broker did not sell him the 
PPI. Leeds Building Society sold the PPI to Mr R over the phone at a slightly later date.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says that no-one ever suggested that he needed PPI or explained what it was for. He 
says he thought the PPI was just part of the mortgage.
The Mortgage Application form completed with the broker has a section for PPI. The form 
has a section for PPI and a box has been ticked in that box to request information about 
Leeds BSs policy.
Ive also seen a copy of the Mortgage Offer. Under the heading: Optional Insurance that you 
do not have to take out through Leeds Building Society, but that you have chosen to take out 
with us, it details PPI for accident and sickness cover at a cost of £13.18 per month for a 
benefit of £527 per month. It also says that the policy is free for the first three months.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Rs recollection of events 
has faded. From the wording and layout of the documentation, I consider that Mr R would 
have known that he had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to 
take it out, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Leeds BS advised Mr R to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the policy to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs
It appears that an adviser at Leeds BS rang Mr R on 20 November 2008 to discuss the PPI, 
following the request for more information stated on the mortgage application. Following the 
phone call, the adviser sent Mr R a couple of letters relating to the PPI. The first was a letter 
summarising the phone discussion and Mr Rs insurance needs. It says that there was a 
discussion about his ability to continue to meet his mortgage repayments if he was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or redundancy. It says it was agreed that Mr R would have 
difficultly meeting payments if he was off work for a prolonged period due to accident or sickness. The second letter is the PPI illustration which again says it is confirming what was 
discussed over the phone. It lists Mr Rs responses to certain eligibility questions and details 
that Mr R has selected accident and sickness cover only and that he has chosen an excess 
period of 30 days.
As Mr R has chosen accident and sickness cover only and not unemployment cover, this 
suggests that some consideration was given to his needs at that time.
Mr R would have received generous sick pay from his employer. But this didnt make the 
policy unsuitable. The PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer 
than Mr R would have received full pay for. And Mr R didnt have any other means, such as 
savings to fall back on.
Mr R has said that he was healthy and never had to claim on the PPI. But it is the nature of 
insurance to insure against any unforeseen events and changes in circumstance.
Overall, looking at Mr Rs circumstances at the time, I consider that he had a need for it and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time, therefore it follows that 
it was reasonable of Leeds BS to recommend it to him.
Leeds BS also needed to provide Mr R with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the PPI was right for him. The Mortgage Offer and PPI 
Illustration both show the cost as being £13.18 after the initial three month free period. So I 
consider that Mr R would have known what hed be paying for the policy. Both of those 
documents and the Insurance Needs letter detail the level of cover as being accident and 
sickness only and give the benefit amount. So I consider that Mr R would have had a broad 
understanding of what the policy did  that it would cover his mortgage repayments if he 
were unable to work due to accident or sickness..
Its possible that Leeds BS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a 
result of anything Leeds BS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Leeds BS needs 
to do to put things right.
My final decision
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman