DRN-3124212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid their travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a holiday booked for April 2020 and were due to travel abroad. On 
17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but
essential travel in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs P said they were unable 
to travel abroad as a result. So they claimed on their annual travel insurance policy for the 
cost of their unused flights and accommodation, which was over £3000 in total.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover available under the policy as 
cancellation for a change in FCO advice wasnt an insured event. Mr and Mrs P made a 
complaint to URV, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs P made a complaint to our service and our investigator looked into what had 
happened. She upheld the complaint, saying that Mr and Mrs P were left in a position 
where they werent covered if they cancelled, but were also not covered if they travelled. 
However, she noted that Mr and Mrs P were entitled to a refund of their flight costs from 
the airline. Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators view, although later explained they 
were having a lot of problems getting the refund from the airline, as the refund appeared to 
have been passed onto the travel provider theyd booked through.
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said the policy 
was priced to take into account that there was no cover for a change in FCO advice and it 
wasnt an insured event under the policy.
In August 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In summary I said: 
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had 
regard to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015).
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page 
one, says;
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the 
contract which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums 
insured are specified in your policy schedule
And, also on page one, under the section, Are there any restrictions on cover? it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to 
your destination.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page nine of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the 
policy. It excludes:
You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure or purchase of 
your policy.
On page ten the section entitled Cancellation  If you are unable to go on your trip sets 
out the circumstances under which URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which cannot be 
recovered from any other source. These are if the policyholder is unable to travel 
because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion being made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office applicable at the time of your departure.
Was Mr and Mrs Ps claim declined unfairly?
I have a great deal of empathy for Mr and Mrs Ps position. This was an expensive family 
holiday, which was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs P have also 
explained that they have been impacted financially by the pandemic for other reasons, 
due to the nature of their employment. So, I appreciate that my intended decision is likely 
to come as a significant disappointment to them.Im not upholding this complaint because:
There is no section of the policy which provides cover for the circumstances in 
which Mr and Mrs P found themselves in. Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled 
due to circumstances entirely outside of their control. But the trip wasnt 
cancelled for any of the reasons specified in the cancellation cover on page ten 
of the policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice isnt a valid reason 
for a cancellation claim to be paid as it isnt a listed, insured event for which 
cover is provided under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to be left in a position where 
they had no cover for cancelling the trip due to a change in FCO, advice but to 
also have no cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled, in the event that it was 
possible for them to do so. There are some limited situations where, if I 
considered that policy documentation wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder 
to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont 
think thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction, such as the exclusion 
of cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCO advice to be 
prominent in the IPID. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and 
conditions which form the contract of insurance between Mr and Mrs P and 
URV. As Ive outlined above the exclusion in relation to the lack of cover for the 
advice or recommendation of the FCO was referred to in the general summary 
of conditions and exclusions. It was also specifically highlighted in the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Although Mr and Mrs P may have been in the position of having no cover under 
this policy if they travelled in April 2020 and also having no cover if they 
cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the 
terms and conditions of his policy. It was up to Mr and Mrs P to ensure they 
had the level of cover they required to meet their needs, and if they wanted 
cover for cancellation due to changes in FCO advice, its likely they couldve 
found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation they 
found themselves in.
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
URV to accept this claim.URV didnt add any further comments.  Mr and Mrs P made a number of further 
comments. In summary, they said to lose their case would be nothing short of 
devastating particularly as their lives had been significantly impacted by Covid-19. 
They asked that I gave further consideration to the following points:
A travel ban was imposed on the 17 March 2020 and the country they 
were planning to visit was denying UK citizens entry. The wording of 
the policy suggested that they had a choice about whether they could 
travel and they wouldnt have had cover if theyd chosen to travel. So, 
they broke no part of the contractual agreement.
URV also relied on the exclusion relating to a fear of a pandemic but 
there actually was a pandemic. 
They arent experts in holiday insurance and it isnt practical to go 
through every single eventuality. This was a once in a century event 
and they werent travelling to a high-risk country. At the point of sale 
they contacted URV by phone to ensure that they had full cover as 
they always make sure that they have adequate cover.
Mr P is dyslexic and the policy documentation is 24 pages long. The 
writing is in a mixture of colours and it is not reasonable to expect the 
purchaser to go through the documents. 
They feel that they are being penalised for taking out insurance in the 
correct way. 
So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further representations Mr and Mrs P have made. I appreciate 
that the pandemic has had what theyve described as a devastating impact on their family 
life for a number of reasons. I have a lot of empathy for the circumstances that theyve 
described, and I understand that my provisional decision will have come as a further 
disappointment at an already difficult time. However, the further comments havent changed 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the following reasons: 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P say that they shouldnt have to sift through 
documentation and Im sorry to hear that they feel penalised for taking insurance out 
in the correct way. But the policy documentation forms the basis of the contract of 
insurance between the insurer and Mr and Mrs P. It sets out what risks the insurer is 
prepared to cover and the relevant exclusions. The IPID is also provided to 
summarise the cover provided under the policy.  Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments about his dyslexia and what theyve said 
about the length of the policy documents. But Ive not seen evidence that Mr P asked 
for the documents in a different format or contacted URV to ask them to run through 
the detail of the cover relating to changes in FCO advice in more detail. From what 
Mr and Mrs P have said in response to my provisional decision I think its more likely 
that they contacted their broker, who sold them the policy, which is a separate 
business to URV. Any concerns about the sale of the policy, and the service offered 
in relation to the sale, would need to be directed to that business.
I remain satisfied that the limitations on cover for a change in FCO advice were 
drawn to Mr and Mrs Ps attention in the policy documentation. It was referred to on 
page one of the IPID (which is two pages long). This document summarises the 
cover available under the policy and prompts the policyholder to read the 
documentation. The exclusion was also highlighted in the cancellation section with a 
warning reading, BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to;  the 
advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at 
the time of your departure.
 
There were a combination of factors that led to Mr and Mrs P cancelling their trip 
including the pandemic, the closure of the border at the country they were visiting 
and the FCO advice against travel. However, when declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
URV is entitled to rely on any of the relevant exclusions in the policy terms and 
conditions. That means that, even if I agreed with Mr and Mrs Ps comments in 
relation to the clause relating to fear of a pandemic, there are other reasons why its 
not fair to uphold their complaint. In this case the FCO advice remained in force at 
the time of Mr and Mrs Ps planned departure. Therefore, I dont think its 
unreasonable for URV to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman