DRN-4258391
The complaint
Ms E complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £300,000 she lost to a 
cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Ms E fell victim to an investment scam in July 2022 after meeting someone on social media 
(S) who messaged her after theyd both watched an online presentation about 
cryptocurrency. Ms E spoke to S for about 3-4 weeks about cryptocurrency, where he 
eventually suggested that she should consider investing in Sophie Capital (the scammer). 
She was contacted by the broker and they encouraged her to invest.
Ms E was instructed to make payments to her Binance wallet, where she would then transfer 
her cryptocurrency on to a trading platform. Over the course of two months, she made 
around 35 payments from her Revolut account to her Binance wallet totalling £301,800.
Ms E was able to make a large withdrawal of $12,000 a few days after she started investing, 
which she said gave her confidence that everything was legitimate. She said she then paid 
this amount back into the scam investment. Ms E later realised she had been scammed 
when she wanted to make another withdrawal and was told she would need to pay a number 
of additional fees and the scammer stopped engaging with her. 
Ms E reported the fraud to Revolut, but it said it wouldnt refund the money shed lost. 
Revolut said it had intervened in response to unusual activity both on 17 and 19 August 
2022, where it said it provided a warning. However, it said Ms E approved the transaction 
despite the warning it gave, so it didnt consider it was liable for her loss. Unhappy with this, 
Ms E referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. He thought that Revolut could have gone 
further in its questioning of Ms E about the payments and given a better warning. But he 
didnt think this would have ultimately prevented the scam. Ms E disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Ms E authorised the disputed payments she made to her Binance 
wallet from her Revolut account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from her crypto wallet). The debit card payments and bank transfers were 
requested using her legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting 
position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Ms E from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly unusual or out of character. 
Revolut said that Ms Es account activity did flag as unusual, so this isnt disputed. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether Revolut went far enough in all the circumstances 
with its intervention.
Revolut said it contacted Ms E on 17 August 2022 as her account activity had flagged as 
unusual. However, this was only in relation to a request asking her to prove the source of 
funds being paid into the account; it did not provide any specific warning in relation to 
investment scams, so I dont think its intervention was sufficient here. It also said it provided 
a general scam warning before the first bank transfer Ms E made on 19 August 2022. 
However, I cant see that this provided any information highlighting the common features of 
investment scams, so I dont think this went far enough either. Ms E also spoke to an agent 
at Revolut through her in-app chat that day, where she explained that she was buying 
cryptocurrency from Binance. However, the agent failed to probe any further. 
Given the potential risk for financial harm in these circumstances in light of the value and 
frequency of payments being made, I think Revolut ought reasonably to have questioned 
Ms E further about the payments through its in-app chat in order to further narrow down the 
nature of the payment so it could provide a more specific warning about investment scams. 
However, even if it had gone further with its intervention at any point during the scam, Im not 
persuaded it would have likely prevented Ms Es loss.
I say this because Ms E says she researched the scammer and only found positive reviews 
at the time, which she says gave her confidence, as independent websites had given 
positive testimonials. She also researched the investment platform she was using and found 
many positive reviews about that as well. Ms E said that S was also investing through her 
account. She said she had no reason to doubt him, and that this further gave her confidence 
that the investment was legitimate as he was also willing to invest. 
So, if Revolut had given Ms E a specific warning about investment scams and told her to 
carry out further research, Im not persuaded this would have been likely to yield any results 
that would have led her to believe she was being scammed. Indeed, my own research has 
not found any adverse information about the broker at the time she was investing. 
Ms E has also said she was able to withdraw $12,000 back to her Revolut account on 26 
July 2022, which was very early on in the scam. Large withdrawals such as this are typically 
uncommon in cryptocurrency scams (where scammers normally only allow smaller 
withdrawals to make the investment seem legitimate). Ms E said the process was very 
straightforward and the money was quickly received back into her account. This would have 
given her reassurance that she would be able to make large withdrawals when needed, so 
she wouldve had little cause for concern that she wouldnt be able to access her money 
later down the line if shed been warned about this. 
Im also mindful that Revolut in not a bank, and that it carries out the vast majority of its 
customer interactions through its app, including its in-app chat feature. It does not routinely 
call its customers. And although it may have the ability to do so, I wouldnt have expected it 
to call Ms E when this is not its normal method of communication. So, any warning and 
advice she couldve received from Revolut would have taken the form of a written warning  
either while setting up a payment, or through its in-app chat. And taking all of these factors 
into consideration, particularly the lack of adverse information about the scammer at the 
time, Im not persuaded a written warning would have been enough to break the spell Ms E was under, and neither do I think it wouldve likely led her to discover that she was being 
scammed in these circumstances. So, I dont think its acted unfairly by failing to refund the 
money she lost. 
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the money after the 
fraud was reported. In terms of the faster payments, I can see that Revolut reached out to 
the receiving bank to see if it could recall any of the funds after the fraud had been reported. 
However, it was unfortunately told that no funds remained, which isnt surprising given we 
know the money was swiftly transferred on to the scammer from Ms Es Binance account. 
And in terms of the debit card payments, a chargeback claim would not have been likely to 
succeed given Ms E would have received the asset she paid for (i.e. the cryptocurrency). So, 
I dont think there was anything more Revolut could have done to recover the money in 
these circumstances either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms E, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman