DRN-4430501
The complaint
Ms S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
Ms S was looking to purchase a vehicle and found an apparently suitable one on the 
marketplace of a well-known social media website. She contacted the seller and was sent a 
video of the vehicle. The price of the vehicle was significantly lower than other comparable 
vehicles. The seller said this was because the vehicle was a bank repossession. The seller 
didnt agree to reduce the price any further, but told Ms S that the price would include 
delivery and if she was unhappy with the vehicle, she could return it and receive a full 
refund.
Ms S said that she looked up the company name from the advert and could see it was 
legitimate and that it had good reviews.
Believing everything to be genuine Ms S went ahead and made a payment, for £4,800, to 
the account details she was given. Unfortunately, the vehicle didnt arrive as promised and 
Ms S realised shed been scammed and fraudsters had cloned the details of a genuine 
company.
Ms S raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards  
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to the  
provisions of it. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who  
are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Monzo 
investigated Ms Ss fraud claim but concluded it had no responsibility to refund her loss. In 
summary this was because it didnt consider Ms S had reason to believe the goods or seller 
were legitimate and it said shed made no attempt to verify the genuine nature of the goods.
Monzo also said that it had tried to recover Ms Ss money from the beneficiary bank (the 
bank to which the money was sent), but unfortunately no funds remained. Ms S has told us 
she received £50 from Monzo as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service and one of our  
Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part. In summary, she didnt think Monzo had met its standards as a firm under the CRM  
Code as it hadnt provided an Effective Warning at the time the payment was made. So our 
Investigator thought Monzo was, at least in part, responsible for the loss Ms S had suffered.
 
But our Investigator also considered that Ms S should share some responsibility for her loss. 
She said this because she didnt think Ms S had a reasonable basis for believing the vehicle 
she thought she was purchasing was genuine. She said this because the price of the vehicle 
was too good to be true. So our Investigator thought both parties should share some 
responsibility, and Monzo should refund 50% of Ms Ss loss, along with interest.
Through her representatives, Ms S accepted our Investigators view, but Monzo didnt 
accept it. In summary it disagreed that its warnings werent effective or specific. It also didnt 
think it should look to reimburse Ms S under the CRM code, as it said our Investigator had 
agreed that Ms S didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Ms S is responsible for transactions shes carried out herself.  
But, as already set out, Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the CRM Code. So,  
Ive considered whether Ms S should be reimbursed in full or in part by Monzo under its 
provisions.
The CRM Code allows Monzo to decline reimbursement if it can demonstrate (as far as is  
relevant to this complaint) that Ms S:
- Ignored an Effective Warning; and/or
- Made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the sale of goods 
was legitimate
I think that Monzo can rely on the second exception to reimbursement. This is because the 
price of the vehicle here, wasnt just a little lower than she might have found elsewhere, but 
based on trade guides it was somewhere around a quarter of the market value. I dont think 
the explanation given for this would plausibly justify such a significant discount. The price 
also seemed to include free delivery  adding further cost to the seller for an already heavily 
discounted price. Overall, I question why a legitimate car dealership, presumably in business 
to make a profit, would so heavily discount a vehicle that was being advertised as having no 
faults and low mileage.
So, I think Monzo can fairly rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement  that Ms S 
made the payment without a reasonable basis  for believing that the seller was legitimate.
But Monzo, under the CRM Code and as a matter of good practice should be on the lookout 
for out of character and unusual transactions which indicate that its customer might be at risk 
of financial harm from fraud. I dont think this payment was so unusual or significant that 
Monzo ought to have questioned it before it left Ms Ss account. But I do think, and Monzo 
recognised, there was a potential APP scam risk in the payment journey and therefore it 
ought to have provided warnings (which it did).
In order for a warning to be Effective under the CRM Code. It must, as a minimum be: clear,  
specific, understandable, timely and impactful. I accept that Monzo needs to strike a balance 
between its warnings being impactful and specific. But I dont think the warnings Monzo 
presented Ms S with would be considered as effective under the CRM Code. I say that 
because;
- The warnings were not specific to the type of scam Ms S was falling victim to. 
The warnings speak generically about hallmarks, which could be relevant to a wide range of scams.
- The warnings dont refer to transfers arranged online or over social media being 
at higher risk of fraud or explain why. For example, Ms S was buying a car from 
someone purporting to be a car dealership. The name used was that which 
applied to a legitimate car dealership at the time. There is nothing within the 
warning that speaks of fraudsters using social media platforms to pose as 
legitimate traders or that the goods or services they advertise can appear 
genuine when they arent.
- Nor do the warnings  explain there may be alternative methods of payment that 
may offer more protection, such as that bank transfers arent protected in the 
same way as card payments.
In my view, the warnings lack overall impact  they fail to bring alive some of the key 
features of purchase scams or highlight the key risks. So, I dont think they can be 
considered to be Effective Warnings. I therefore dont find the warnings impactful, which 
means that I dont think Monzo met its standards as a firm and liability for the loss should be 
shared between Ms S and Monzo.
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Ms S 
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. Monzo did contact the beneficiary bank when she 
raised the matter, but unfortunately wasnt able to recover any of the money lost. So I think 
Monzo has done what could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover the 
money.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd in part and 
instruct it to pay Ms S:
- 50% of the money lost (being £2,400)
- Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date it declined  
Ms Ss claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman