DRN-3648169
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money pulled out of a proposed 
mortgage at the last minute which meant he couldnt port his mortgage product and in order 
to move house, he has had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr F says that in the 
circumstances the ERC shouldnt be payable.
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with Virgin Money which he took out as advised by a broker. Mr F also 
had a fixed rate mortgage product which was portable subject to Virgin Money agreeing a 
new mortgage on a new property during the fixed rate period which ended in November 
2024.  Mr F always intended to downsize and to port the mortgage product to avoid the 
ERC. Mr F found a suitable property and through his broker applied for a mortgage on the 
new property. During January and February 2021, Virgin Money requested an amount of 
information which it considered relevant to the application. On 14 February 2021, Virgin 
Money requested further information from Mr Fs broker. But there was no response. Virgin 
Money cancelled the application and Mr F applied to another lender, got a mortgage, but had 
to pay an ERC.
Out investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he could find no 
evidence that Virgin Money didnt make every effort to allow the porting of the fixed term 
product to be transferred to a new mortgage on the new property Mr F was buying. Mr F 
disagrees saying in summary that Virgin Money never intended to lend him money as they 
had already approved the affordability on the mortgage he was already paying, and their 
decision makes no sense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case to find for Mr F I have to find that Virgin Money did something wrong. Mr F says 
that it pulled out of a proposed mortgage at the last minute but that isnt in fact what 
happened. Mr F applied for a mortgage on a new property. Virgin Money processed that 
application. In the course of that process I noted that there were two occasions when the 
application didnt meet Virgin Moneys lending policy, but exceptions were obtained to allow 
the application to progress. Virgin Money during the process asked for further information 
from Mr Fs broker relevant to the application. Thats not unreasonable. At the beginning of 
February 2021 considered the further information Mr Fs broker supplied in support of Mr Fs 
application and raised a number of supplementary queries. These included questions to 
clarify Mr Fs status as employed or self-employed, a further one months bank statement 
and a query about the deposit.  As I understand it these supplementary questions were 
raised on 9 February, a valuation was received on the 10 February and assessed on 14 
February, but the further information wasnt received by Virgin Money and the application 
cancelled in early March. Virgin Money says that every application has a cancellation date in 
which all documentation needs to be submitted and if the information wasnt submitted the 
application would be cancelled. It says that it would extend that date if it requested further 
information and in this case the cancellation date was extended to 25 February because of 
that. As the further information wasnt forthcoming and no explanation was given for the 
delay, Virgin Money cancelled the application. That doesnt seem unreasonable.
Ive read Mr Fs comments and note that he obviously considers that he should have 
qualified for the mortgage. That indeed may have been the case, but Virgin Money are 
required to conduct an affordability assessment both for regulatory purposes and to satisfy 
itself that the is lending was an acceptable risk. Virgin Money appears to have been going 
through that process. The questions it asked Mr Fs broker and the information it requested 
all seem relevant to the assessment of risk or affordability. But it never reached a decision 
on the application. Its not accurate for Mr F to say in his email to us of 9 August of this year 
that the decision to turn down my application was not justified There was no decision to 
turn down or accept the application. It had not yet got to that stage.
Mr F says that the only non-communication from his side happened when the decision was 
made but there was no mortgage decision, it was cancelled with in my view sufficient waring 
to Mr F. Nor is there any evidence that, as Mr F says, Virgin Money didnt want to do the 
mortgage. If that were the case the application would have stopped when the application 
didnt meet Virgin Moneys lending policy. But Virgin Money applied two exceptions to its 
policy and was simply asking supplementary questions to clarify the information that Mr F 
had already provided when Mr F ceased communication in the middle of the process. I see 
nothing unusual or obstructive in the information Virgin Money requested from Mr F.
Under he terms of his mortgage product Mr F was liable to pay an ERC if he redeemed his 
mortgage product. That mortgage product could have been ported if Mr F applied and got a 
mortgage offer from Virgin Money on a new property. Mr F applied but didnt supply the 
information reasonably requested by Virgin Money to allow it to come to a decision on this 
application. Virgin Money didnt have the information to come to a decision and Mr F 
redeemed the mortgage without having a mortgage in place to allow him to port his 
mortgage product. In those circumstances I dont consider it unreasonable for Virgin Money 
to charge an ERC in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage product. So, I dont 
consider that Virgin Money has done anything wrong and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman