DRN-3472204
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money hasnt acted in 
accordance with the Equality Act 2010 in making reasonable adjustments due to his 
disability. As a result, Mr M feels hes been a victim of discrimination. 
What happened
Originally Mr O was unhappy that Virgin Money failed to provide an effective means to raise 
a dispute regarding a chargeback request. However, while raising this issue, Mr O 
encountered multiple problems with Virgin Money; hes said:
1. There was no way to raise the dispute on the app or online which he feels denied 
customers the right to manage accounts and raise disputes.
2. They failed to read his correspondence before responding.
3. When he called Virgin Money, he was directed to the website which then directed 
him to the phone number hed dialed.
4. He  repeatedly requested that Virgin Money write to him or send emails as he is 
autistic and cant deal with telephone operators.
5. He felt the complaints team intended to discriminate against him.
6. Virgin Money failed to acknowledge the issues he had raised and failed to provide a 
resolution. 
7. Virgin Money referred to Mr Os autism as a health condition.
8. The overall correspondence from Virgin Money caused distress.
9. Virgin Money deliberately failed to properly answer his questions to his complaint.
10. Virgin Money failed to properly handle his data 
Mr O asked Virgin Money to address and respond to each of his individual complaint points 
separately as a reasonable adjustment. However, Mr O remained unhappy because he felt 
Virgin Money failed to address his complaint fully and in the format hed requested.  
Our investigator looked into the concerns Mr O raised. She explained that she wouldnt be 
making a finding on whether Virgin Money had breached the Equality Act 2010. However, 
she agreed Virgin Money hadnt made the reasonable adjustments Mr O had asked for and 
said it should pay Mr O £300 for the distress, upset and inconvenience this caused him. She 
also asked if Virgin Money would agree to refunding the original transaction and provide an 
explanation of what its specialist support team (SST) do and how it can support Mr O.
Originally Mr O accepted the investigators opinion and Virgin money refunded the 
transaction, paid the recommended compensation and provided information regarding its 
SST.
However, Mr O remained unhappy with the continued correspondence in relation to the SST. 
This was because he felt it wasnt co-operating or specifically highlighting what support it 
would offer. Our investigator provided further clarification for Mr O in regard to this. She felt 
Virgin Money had done enough to answer Mr Os questions and offer further support if he 
required it. Mr O remained unhappy, so his complaint was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion, broadly for the same reasons, I will 
explain why. I would like to highlight that I've taken into account Mr Os very detailed 
submissions about what has happened. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the Courts.
Firstly, I must point out that I can see our investigator asked Virgin Money to refund the 
original transaction, and that Virgin Money agreed to do so. As such, I wont be commenting 
on this aspect of the complaint. My decision will focus on Mr Os complaint relating to the 
poor service, failure to make reasonable adjustments, and his further allegations of 
discrimination. 
As explained by our investigator, this service is unable to make findings on whether or not 
something constitutes discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an 
informal, free alternative, to the Courts. Only a Court of law can make a legal finding based 
on the definitions set out within the act. 
I know this will be frustrating for Mr O, but unfortunately, I am unable to provide him with 
such an answer. However, I can consider whether Virgin Money has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner; and to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 
2010, into consideration.
I agree with the investigators findings that Mr O had outlined the fact he had autism, 
explained why he couldnt contact the call centre to raise a dispute, and asked for a different 
solution. But despite this, no reasonable adjustments were offered.
After reviewing Mr Os correspondence to Virgin Money, I agree there were multiple 
occasions where Virgin Money didnt respond to Mr Os correspondence, or action the 
reasonable adjustments he was asking for. This would have further amplified Mr Os 
frustration and concerns - and led him to believe he was being treated unfairly.
I acknowledge that Virgin Money did apply an internal indicator to Mr Os account to ensure 
all areas of its business were aware that Mr O required alternative methods of 
communication. And while Virgin Money notified Mr O aware of this internal indicator, it failed 
to offer a proper explanation of what this meant. This resulted in Mr O worrying about what 
this meant for his account and how he would be impacted. Given that Virgin Money had 
been made aware Mr O was autistic, I think it is reasonable to assume, it was foreseeable 
that sending a vague notification, would have had a greater impact on him. 
I can see that Virgin Money did refer Mr Os account to its SST to see what further support it 
could provide. But, originally, this wasnt explained to Mr O. Again, causing further distress. 
Overall, I do agree Virgin Money didnt always respond to Mr Os correspondence as I would 
expect. I also agree it failed to make reasonable adjustments and failed to explain why those 
adjustments were made. As such, I do agree compensation was warranted in order to put 
this right. However, I consider £300 is fair and reasonable, and I am pleased to see Virgin 
Money agreed to pay Mr O this amount.In the investigators opinion she asked Virgin Money to explain to Mr O what support its SST 
could provide. I have reviewed the correspondence between Mr O and Virgin Money in 
relation to this. Having done so, I can see the SST team reached out to Mr O after the 
investigator issued her opinion, and said:
Within Virgin Money, we have a Specialist Support Team. This team is there to offer 
potential assistance and support to customers, who may require assistance. We are able to 
offer assistance which is tailored to our customers requirements and provide those 
customers with a direct point of contact with Virgin money.
It went on to say that if Mr O felt he would benefit from the SST he could contact it on a 
specified number. I am satisfied this correspondence did highlight what the SST was and 
what it can do. However, it wasnt helpful that it only provided a contact number, and not 
alternative ways for Mr O to contact it if he had further questions. This shows the SST wasnt 
aware of Mr Os complaint and I understand why he would have been frustrated with this. 
However, I do note this didnt stop Mr O corresponding via email, so while it would have 
been frustrating and amplified his original concerns, he was able to ask for clarification. 
In the further correspondence, I am satisfied that the SST explained what it did and 
highlighted some of the ways it could assist for example corresponding via email. It also 
asked Mr O to provide further information in relation to his autism to assess what support it 
could provide. So, I cant agree with Mr Os comments that Virgin Money failed to explain 
what its SST could do or how it could assist him. As such I wont be asking Virgin Money to 
do anything further in relation to this aspect of his complaint.  
Putting things right
Overall, I agree that Virgin Money made errors with the service it provided when dealing with 
Mr Os complaints, and I can see why Mr O felt he wasnt being treated fairly.  I can also see 
this would have impacted him in several ways, including him feeling disrespected, suffering a 
degree of distress and upset, and feeling he wasnt able to communicate in a way which was 
appropriate for him. However, Virgin Money agreed to pay Mr M £300, which was 
recommended by our investigator, to compensate for the distress, disrespect and impact it 
had on his feelings and Im satisfied that the compensation offered is sufficient to recognise 
this. As such, I wont be asking Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint but dont require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman