DRN-3658163
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC when she was the victim of a scam
in which she sent money to one of its customers accounts
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In July 2020 Mrs N says under the guise of 
an investment, she was tricked into transferring a sum of around $5,000 from her bank  S 
to an account held with Lloyds.
Mrs N accepts she is not a customer of Lloyds but believes it should provide a full refund as 
it failed to protect her and prevent her loss. She also asks that Lloyds consider her refund 
request under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the CRM Code). In summary, Mrs N complains that Lloyds have likely failed to carry out 
sufficient Know Your Customer (KYC) checks at account opening. And she questions Lloyds 
adherence to industry best practice that is in place to protect customers from financial harm 
from fraud; and its regulatory obligations to monitor accounts and report suspicious activity. 
Mrs N would also like Lloyds, to share with her, the name, address and telephone number of 
the individual who benefitted from the money shed been tricked into sending, as well as any 
other documents and/or information it holds about the matter.
Lloyds did not uphold Mrs Ns complaint and said it couldnt share the information shed 
requested due to privacy laws. Unhappy with its response Mrs N brought her complaint to 
our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she concluded that there werent any failures by Lloyds which contributed to 
Mrs Ns loss. Mrs N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
On 31 October 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision because in reaching her conclusion, our 
Investigator had taken into account some considerations which I believed were outside our 
services jurisdiction. In my decision I set out which parts of Mrs Ns complaint I could 
consider and why. In short, I explained our service could only look at alleged acts or 
omissions that took place on or after 31 January 2019. This is because that was the date 
from which a change to our jurisdiction rules applied. Specifically, this meant I couldnt 
consider Mrs Ns complaint about Lloyds actions when opening the beneficiary account, as 
it took place prior to that date. 
Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I think about the 
aspects of Mrs Ns complaint we do have the power to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs N, but Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that simply because Mrs N has fallen 
victim to a scam and Lloyds is a regulated firm involved in the transfer of her funds, this 
doesnt mean she is entitled to a refund of the losses she has suffered. I understand she 
says that Lloyds should be uniquely placed in the role of an insurer, insofar as reasonable 
and that she is deeply disappointed by the absence of a refund as a gesture of goodwill. But 
I cant ask Lloyds to refund Mrs Ns loss as a gesture of goodwill. It would only be fair for me 
to direct Lloyds to refund Mrs Ns loss if Im satisfied (in relation to matters within my 
jurisdiction) it reasonably failed to prevent it or did something wrong where it would be fair to 
ask it to provide a refund.
In her submissions, Mrs N refers to various obligations placed on regulated firms (such as 
Lloyds) to prevent financial losses from fraud; monitor and thwart the misuse of its accounts; 
and report any suspicious activities. Id like to assure Mrs N that Ive taken these into 
consideration when reaching my outcome. 
But here the account held with Lloyds which received Mrs Ns payment was not operated by 
the fraudulent party. It belongs to a genuine regulated financial firm, who Ill refer to as F 
which provide payment services to its own clients. Lloyds would not have oversight of Fs 
clients and are not responsible for the due diligence or monitoring of Fs client relationships.
I appreciate Mrs N feels Lloyds ought to have identified her payment as unusual. In her 
submissions she relies on good industry practices and obligations that would ordinarily be 
applicable to a payers bank to argue that Lloyds ought to have identified the abnormality of 
the payment. Whilst what Mrs N is saying might be true that the payment itself was unusual 
for her, as shes not a customer of Lloyds (and the payment wasnt made from a Lloyds 
account) it couldnt reasonably have known this. And from a recipient account perspective 
due to the nature of Fs business, thinking about the volume, size and velocity of payments it 
would receive, Im not persuaded a single payment of around $5,000 from Mrs N would have 
stood out as being unusual or suspicious. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds failed to prevent 
Mrs Ns loss upon receipt of her payment. 
And to be clear, whilst Lloyds has its own regulatory obligations around the monitoring of Fs 
account. It is not the regulator  so it is not responsible in the same way that a regulator 
would be in ensuring F, which is a separate (regulated) entity is adhering to its regulatory 
obligations. This complaint is about Lloyds and its actions. So I cant investigate or hold 
Lloyds liable for any failing by F in the monitoring or management of its client relationships.  
For completeness Ive also considered the steps Lloyds took upon notification of fraud from 
S. Here as F is a genuine regulated financial firm upon notification Lloyds wouldnt just block 
its account. It would forward the notification onto F so that it can investigate if any funds 
remain (as Lloyds would not have access to this information) and take the necessary action 
against its client. Once Lloyds receives confirmation from F about whether any funds remain 
it would update S accordingly. Lloyds have evidenced and Im satisfied that upon receipt of 
notification it took the steps Id reasonably expect it to take in such circumstances and 
correctly informed S no funds remained which could be returned. I note Mrs Ns request to Lloyds for a refund under the CRM Code. She quotes sections of 
the CRM Code, which requires signatories of it (which Lloyds are) to refund victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) fraud in all but a limited number of circumstances. One of 
the CRM Codes requirements is for a payment to be covered, it must be a transfer between 
UK-domiciled, GBP accounts. The disputed payment Mrs N sent to Lloyds customers 
account does not meet the CRM Codes criteria  as it was an international payment in 
US dollars. So I cant fairly say by not considering a refund under the CRM Code Lloyds 
have acted unreasonably.  
I understand Mrs N is also unhappy that Lloyds wont share with her details about the 
recipient of her funds. But the individual that tricked Mrs N into transferring the funds is not 
Lloyds customer. The information sought by Mrs N would not be known to Lloyds nor is 
there any obligation on it to obtain this and share it with her. Therefore, I cant say Lloyds 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this aspect of Mrs Ns complaint.   
I appreciate the sum lost is significant to Mrs N and from what she has said the whole 
incident has affected her personally and emotionally. And despite my natural sympathy for 
the situation in which she finds herself, as I dont think Lloyds couldve reasonably prevented 
her loss and Im satisfied it did what Id expect it to do to assist in the recovery of her funds. 
It follows that I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman