DRN-2664178
The complaint
Ms T complains about the way Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading as Precise 
Mortgages) dealt with her mortgage application. She says she lost the chance to buy a home 
she could afford and is now living in expensive temporary accommodation with her 
possessions in storage. Ms T asks for compensation.
What happened
Ms T applied to Precise for a mortgage in mid-June 2020, through a broker. She provided 
documents requested by Precise including a copy of her employment contract. In August 
Precise said it couldnt offer the mortgage as Ms Ts employment was subject to a two-year 
probationary period. Her purchase fell through. Ms T had already given notice for her rented 
property, and had to move into temporary accommodation. 
Ms T says she wasnt treated fairly. She says Precise should have told her in June that it 
wouldnt lend to her, so she could apply elsewhere. She lost the opportunity to buy a home 
and has to pay for expensive temporary accommodation and storage costs for her 
possessions. She incurred legal costs related to the purchase. 
Our investigator said Precises guidelines (which were available to the broker) said 
applicants must be in permanent employment and not subject to a current probationary 
period. Ms T didnt meet Precises lending criteria and it was fair for it to decline her 
application. The investigator said Precise should have told her this sooner. Precise refunded 
the cost of the valuation and paid £250 for the upset caused, and the investigator said this 
was fair.
Our investigator said while Ms T expected Precise to offer a mortgage there was no 
guarantee of this. It wasnt fair to require it to cover her legal fees or accommodation costs or 
pay compensation for her not being able to buy the property she wanted. 
Ms T didnt agree, saying she was given false hope for two months. She said if Precise had 
told her it wouldnt lend at the outset shed have applied elsewhere and would now be living 
in the house she wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. Consistent with our informal approach, I 
havent referred to each item of evidence or included all of the details of this complaint in my 
decision. I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Precise issued a decision in principle in mid-June 2020. Ms Ts broker submitted a mortgage 
application on her behalf. Precise asked for documents which Ms T and the broker provided 
to Precise. This included her employment contract. 
Precises guidelines state that applicants must be in permanent employment and not in a 
probationary period. Ms T was in a two-year probationary period. She didnt meet Precises 
lending criteria and I think it was fair for Precise to decline her application.
However, while Precise received Ms Ts employment contract in mid-June it didnt notice that 
she was in a probationary period until 11 August. Precise accepts that it should have noticed 
this and declined the application sooner. 
I think Precise should have told Ms T sooner that it wouldnt offer a mortgage and I think its 
right that it pays compensation.  Precise refunded costs related to the mortgage application, 
including the valuation fee. It paid £250 to Ms T for the upset caused. Ms T says this isnt 
enough. She says she was given false hope for two months. She expected a mortgage offer 
to be made and acted on this basis. She paid legal costs and gave notice for her rented 
property. Ms T says if shed known at the outset her application would be declined by 
Precise she could have applied elsewhere.
So I need to decide what amount of compensation is fair and reasonable. In doing so, Ive 
taken the following into account.
Precises lending guidelines are available to brokers, including that applicants must not 
be in a probationary period. The mortgage application was made on the basis it met 
these guidelines. Nonetheless, it was for Precise to verify this as part of its application 
process.
Ms T says she had no reason to suspect Precise wouldnt lend. I think though that 
Precise made it clear at the outset that Ms Ts application was subject to review and 
there was no guarantee it would offer a mortgage. 
Ms T couldnt be sure that Precise would lend to her until she received a mortgage offer. 
If she chose to incur costs before this, she did so at risk of not being offered a mortgage. 
Ms T provided an engagement letter from her solicitors dated 22 June, asking for 
payment on account of costs. At this point she didnt have a mortgage offer from Precise 
and the mortgage application process had only just started. 
Its unlikely Ms T would have been able to exchange contracts for her purchase until she 
had a mortgage offer. When Ms T gave notice for her rented accommodation, she didnt 
have a completion date for her purchase, or know for certain it would complete. 
Ms T says the vendor put the property back on the market and sold it to someone else 
due to the delays caused by Precise. Property purchases can (and do) fall through. I 
cant know for certain that Ms Ts purchase would have completed but for the error made 
by Precise.
If Ms T had known sooner that Precise wouldnt offer a mortgage she could have applied 
to another lender. I cant know if another lender would have issued a mortgage offer for 
the amount Ms T wanted to borrow or within a time frame acceptable to the vendor. 
I appreciate how upsetting this was for Ms T, and I do understand that she feels let down. 
Ms T says this was the only affordable property in the area and she wont now be able to buy a house. But I dont think I can fairly find that if Precise had declined her application sooner 
shed have secured a mortgage elsewhere and completed her property purchase. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require Precise to compensate Ms T for not being able to buy 
this particular property.
Precise made it clear when it issued the decision in principle and mortgage illustration that 
this was subject to verification and assessment by its underwriters. Ms T would reasonably 
have known there was a risk that the mortgage wouldnt be offered when she decided to 
instruct solicitors and give notice for her rental property. Ms T has explained why she chose 
to do this, and I understand her reasons. But I dont think Precise misled Ms T that it would 
offer her a mortgage. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to 
compensate Ms T for legal costs or her increased accommodation and storage costs. 
Ms T wasnt happy with the way Precise dealt with her complaints. Complaint handling isnt 
itself a regulated activity. So while I appreciate Ms Ts frustration, I cant look into those 
concerns here. 
Precise refunded Ms Ts mortgage application costs and paid £250 for the upset caused by 
its error. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the steps taken by 
Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading as Precise Mortgages) to put things right 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman