DRN-2121163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained Vauxhall Finance plc wouldnt provide financing for the car 
they wished to purchase. They have also complained about the way theyve been treated.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs B took out a conditional sale agreement for a brand new car. 
This had manual transmission. Mr B has health issues and found this more difficult to use. 
More than a year later he was looking to trade in this car for an automatic. 
This car would cost more. Vauxhall believed that along with the increased price and the 
outstanding finance on Mr and Mrs Bs existing agreement, theyd be unwilling to offer 
finance on the same terms. Theyd require an enhanced deposit if they were to provide 
finance for a car with automated transmission because of the additional cost. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt have the money required.
In November 2019 Mr B decided to take out finance for a new car  the same vehicle hed 
financed in 2018  which Vauxhall would accept. Within a very short period Mr B decided not 
to proceed with this new finance and car purchase.  
In the detailed correspondence Mr and Mrs B had had with Vauxhall, it was clear that 
relationships had deteriorated. Vauxhall believed Mr B was abusive to their staff. Mr B didnt 
think Vauxhall were dealing with his complaints properly.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to the ombudsman service. Investigators have 
completed two views on this complaint; on 16 January and 20 March 2020. These stated 
there was no evidence to show Vauxhall had done anything wrong in turning Mr and Mrs Bs 
application down. They were allowed to decide the level of risk they wished to accept and 
therefore require a higher deposit to provide them with some security.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to make a 
decision on their complaint.
Vauxhall has recently confirmed Mr and Mrs B have settled the outstanding debt on their 
original conditional sale agreement. They also mentioned a further agreement taken out in 
May 2019 which is also satisfied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. So, for example, Im aware Mr and Mrs B raised a 
concern about the armrest of their original car but this isnt what this complaint is about. Im 
concentrating on whether Vauxhall acted fairly in not agreeing to offer Mr and Mrs B finance 
on a car with automated transmission.
Ive also considered the service issues Mr and Mrs B have raised.
Our rules allow me to only consider the issues I believe are key. This reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 16 January and 20 March 
2020 so wont be repeating some of what was included there.
Further financing
Finance companies make loan decisions based on the amount of risk they are willing to 
accept based on their customers financial position and ability to repay. They use a number 
of different elements to asses this.
In Mr and Mrs Bs case Vauxhall knew of their existing financial commitments. There was the 
agreement theyd taken out in August 2018. They were repaying £490 a month which is a 
considerable amount of money. Its also clear that a further finance agreement was taken out 
in May 2019 for a smaller car. So when Mr and Mrs B wanted to change their manual car for 
an automated version later in 2019, Vauxhall carried out a financial assessment.  
The new car was going to cost more than Mr and Mrs Bs other vehicle. So to make sure 
monthly payments were kept at a level Vauxhall assessed as repayable  to reflect what Mr 
and Mrs B was paying  Vauxhall decided they wished a higher deposit to be paid.  
Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford this so decided not to pursue this option. In fact they decided 
Mr B could enter into an agreement for a further new car to replace the one which was only 
15 months old and also had a manual gearbox. Its difficult to understand Mr and Mrs Bs 
reasoning around this decision as theyd already decided a manual car exacerbated Mr Bs 
health problems.
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs B that Vauxhall refused to offer them finance. They offered 
them finance on specific terms which Mr and Mrs B decided  for whatever reasons  they 
couldnt accept. I dont believe theres any evidence to show Vauxhall acted unreasonably.
Customer service
Vauxhall provided us with sets of email correspondence with Mr B. Its clear that relations 
werent great and they decided in February 2019 theyd not discuss issues further with him. 
They were concerned at the abuse he was directing towards their staff.
Mr B has been similarly hot-tempered with our service. I appreciate that these are important 
issues and he has strong feelings about being treated unfairly. But I cant say that Vauxhall 
did anything wrong in limiting their staffs interactions with Mr B.
I know Mr B has felt this had an impact on all their interactions about the finance and their 
willingness to deal properly with his complaints. Ive looked at the detailed submissions from 
both sides of this complaint. Overall I dont agree Vauxhall acted unfairly.Mr and Mrs B also questioned the negative equity added to the finance agreement. As our 
investigator explained, theres nothing wrong in finance companies adding outstanding debt 
to a new finance agreement. In fact unless Mr and Mrs B had repaid their original debt in full, 
there would always be outstanding finance to be added to a new agreement.
I know Mr B is upset hes had to wait for so long until an ombudsman has been able to 
consider his complaint. Im sorry about that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
against Vauxhall Finance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman