DRN-3240170
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Great Lakes Insurance SE when he made a 
claim on his motor legal expenses insurance policy. He is also unhappy Great Lakes 
decision to decline his claim.
When I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C purchased the policy on 22 March 2019. On 16 May 2019 he contacted the legal 
helpline as a garage had carried out renovation work on his car, and hed since experienced 
defects with his vehicle. Mr C said the garage was refusing to return his vehicle and they 
have said they would be charging him storage fees. Mr C wanted to bring a claim for breach 
of contract.
The adviser at the time told him that cover would be dependent on the policy wording. Up 
until 5 June 2019, Great Lakes sought to confirm cover. His claim was eventually accepted.
Mr C was advised that Great Lakes would need to obtain a prospects of success 
assessment from a panel firm. The case was sent to a firm of solicitors Ill call S. S were 
notified about the claim on 5 June 2019. 
Mr C chased Great Lakes on 10 June 2019 as he hadnt heard from S. So, Great Lakes 
offered to contact S to get an update.
On 18 June 2019, S requested policy documents, indemnity details and inception date. 
Great Lakes provided this straightaway.
Great Lakes contacted S on 27 August 2019 requesting an update on the prospects of 
success assessment. S updated Great Lakes in September 2019 advising that the previous 
file handler had left the organisation, so the new handler was reviewing the documents.
S notified Great Lakes in October 2019 that Mr Cs claim had insufficient prospects of 
success. S said the difficulties Mr C faced were the financial position of the garage, and the 
fact that there wasnt enough evidence to show the defects.
S advised that Mr C should get an independent report which hed have to fund himself as he 
didnt have sufficient prospects of success. S said once he obtained a report that supported 
his case, Great Lakes may reconsider cover subject to confirming that the garage could 
repay any judgment obtained against them.
Mr C discussed the assessment with Great Lakes, and he explained that the garage had 
Professional Indemnity Insurance, so recovery wouldnt be a problem. Also, although there 
was no engineers report, the car failed its MOT, so he had concerns about the MOT put on 
the car before they returned it to him. Mr C also said he was unhappy with the service hed 
received from S as theyd failed to contact him on numerous occasions and keep him 
updated. The advisor agreed that Mr C should clarify the insurance cover that the garage 
had in place, and the engineers report and pass this to S. They also said theyd make S 
aware of the customer service hed experienced.
A month later S updated Great Lakes to make it aware that Mr C hadnt provided the 
documents, so the file would be closed.
In December 2019 Mr C contacted Great Lakes as he was unhappy with the service, he 
received from S. He said the handler failed to call him back on numerous occasions. He 
understood that he needed to provide the information to confirm his claim had sufficient 
prospects, but he wanted to check with S that it would be enough before incurring the 
engineers report fee. He said before he had a response, hed received a letter closing the 
file. This prompted him to contact the legal helpline, which led him to speak to another panel 
firm of solicitors Ill call P. Mr C felt P were more professional than S.
The advisor agreed to check if the case could be moved over to P, but still requested that 
Mr C get the required information.
On 6 January 2020, Mr C rang Great Lakes to provide an update about the insurance policy 
for the garage. Hed been in touch with the garages insurer and itd requested that he send 
documents to it. The advisor told him that it would be best to see what its response was, and 
also send it a copy of the email he sends it so they could decide the next steps.
The garages insurer explained that unfortunately it couldnt deal with the claim unless it had 
permission from its client first.
Great Lakes said the next step would be to get P to send a full letter of claim to the garage, 
which could then be pass onto their insurer. However, the issue would be whether Mr C had 
prospects of success. Great Lakes asked Mr C to send a copy of the email he had received 
from the insurer, and for him to consider an engineers report to confirm potential quantum.
On 13 January 2020 Great Lakes sent Mr C a link to find an engineer in his area. The 
engineers report was completed at the end of the month and sent to Great Lakes in 
February 2020.
The engineers report supported Mr Cs stance that there were significant issues with the 
work undertaken and that the vehicle has been left in a dangerous condition which was not 
fit for purpose. Great Lakes noted that the response from the garages insurer appeared to 
confirm that the garage did in fact have cover in place.
Great Lakes sent the claim to P in March 2020. In April 2020, P issued their prospects of 
success assessment. This determined that Mr Cs claim didnt have prospects of success 
due to it being unlikely that hed be able to make a recovery. P requested he obtain an 
estimate of the cost of the rectification work so they could quantify his claim correctly. This 
information was needed for the claim to move to the Letter of Claim stage.
Mr C contacted Great Lakes in November 2020, unhappy with the legal assessment. Mr C 
didnt believe P took steps to contact the insurer, and merely checked companies house and 
decided that the garage didnt have enough funds. Mr C said hed sent the estimate to P in 
August 2020, so they knew the value of the claim.
Great Lakes agreed to go back to P for clarification of the points Mr C raised. P clarified that 
the garages funds had reduced, and as for the insurance policy, they werent provided with 
actual evidence of the policy itself. The information they had was confirmation from a former 
partner of the garage who held a similar policy. After further enquiries it was confirmed that the insurance cover related to loss or injury caused by the sub-standard work not the sub-
standard work itself.
Great Lakes agreed to look at things again, and asked Mr C to send it all the 
correspondence with the garages insurer. After reviewing all the documents, Great Lakes 
agreed to follow the advice of P.
Mr C raised a complaint with Great Lakes as P would not sending a letter of claim, whereas 
S said they would.
Great Lakes didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint explaining that the letter of claim wouldnt be 
covered as his claim didnt have sufficient prospects of success.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Great Lakes acted 
fairly and reasonably when it followed the advice given by P that there was no reasonable 
prospect of success. She didnt think it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
authorise a letter of claim on the basis that S said they would provide one.
Mr C disagrees. He says the person dealing with his claim at P is a paralegal and is 
incompetent. The letter she sent him wasnt good. He feels a letter of claim should be sent 
particularly as S offered to send one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to make it clear that I can only look at the actions of Great Lakes and its agents 
and claims handlers. I cant look at the actions of the solicitors. 
I think Great Lakes acted fairly in response to Mr Cs complaints about S by chasing S and 
allowing the claim to be passed to another firm of solicitors.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration. From what I have seen P thinks that he has a good claim 
against the garage but having a good claim is not all that the policy requires to fund legal 
action. In common with many such policies the policy requires that the claim has reasonable 
prospects, and this is defined as:
A greater than 50% chance that you will be successful in your pursuit or defence of
legal proceedings and make a successful recovery.
So, P needs to consider the chances of recovery as well as the chance of winning. And in 
this case Ps opinion is that the claim does not meet the prospects of success test set out in 
the policy.
The term in the policy concerning reasonable prospects is in most legal expenses policies, 
so I dont think its unusual. I also dont think its unfair as we wouldnt expect insurers to fund 
cases which are more likely to not result in recovery than they are to succeed. As insurers 
arent legal experts themselves, we expect them to obtain legal advice as to a claims 
prospects of success. And we expect them to follow that advice unless that advice is clearly 
incorrect. Great Lakes relies on the expertise and advice it receives from its solicitors 
regarding the likelihood of success. So long as it has obtained advice from suitably qualified 
lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance on that advice, unless we think it was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. Having looked at the letter regarding prospects of success from P I cannot see that it is 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. The letter is written by a paralegal rather than 
by a qualified lawyer. I have considered whether Great Lakes should have requested that a 
lawyer look again at the case. I can see  from the call notes provided by Great Lakes - that 
Great Lakes did speak to the paralegals supervisor to discuss the case in more detail. 
Great Lakes appears to have been sympathetic to Mr C. The evidence suggests it has 
looked carefully at the advice on reasonable prospects from P and the previous advice from 
S. It also carefully considered Mr Cs objections. It went further than that and made its own 
enquiries regarding the likely terms of any insurance that the garage might have, based on 
the evidence it had seen, it considered that it was most likely that the garages insurer 
wouldnt cover the claim. As such, it concluded, Mr Cs claim does not meet the policy 
criteria of enjoying reasonable prospects of success, and so funding for legal costs was not 
available from it. It noted Mr Cs opinion that the only conclusive way to find out if the garage 
has relevant insurance in place, is to send a letter before action to the garage requesting 
their insurance details. Whilst it wasnt prepared to fund this letter using P it had offered Mr C 
assistance in either sending this letter or helping Mr C to write and send one himself.
I understand that Mr C is particularly frustrated as the original solicitors looking at the case, 
S, had said they would send a letter before action. But I am satisfied that Great Lakes 
carefully considered the advice given to Mr C about prospects from both firms of solicitors 
and made a reasonable decision that it would not  in line with the terms of the policy- fund a 
letter before action. I think it tried to be fair and reasonable when it offered to send such a 
letter itself or to help Mr C write a letter. I will therefore not require it to do anything more and 
will not be upholding the complaint
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman