DRN-2669755
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided her with a refund of 
premiums, for a single trip travel insurance policy she held.
What happened
On 13 January 2020 Mrs J purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. Mrs J had bought this policy, to provide cover for a holiday from 1 June 2020, to 14 
June 2020.
A week later, Mrs J contacted the broker she bought the travel insurance policy through, to 
change her holiday dates. These dates were successfully changed, and the policy was in 
place to cover a holiday from 27 June 2020, to 13 July 2020 instead. 
Mrs J paid £98.88 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered 
Mrs Js declared medical conditions. The premium paid for the standard level of travel 
insurance cover included a discount £16.43.
Unfortunately, Mrs Js holiday was cancelled. Mrs J isnt sure of the exact date the holiday 
was cancelled  she has said she no longer has any paperwork to show this. But Mrs J 
called the broker she purchased the travel insurance policy through, on 12 May 2020 asking 
for a refund of premiums, as she could no longer travel. 
Great Lakes told Mrs J wasnt able to provide her with a refund of premiums. It said that Mrs 
J has requested her insurance policy be cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period, and 
therefore she wasnt entitled to a refund. 
However, Great Lakes said that in the circumstances it would be willing, on this occasion, to 
let Mrs H move the trip dates detailed on the policy, up to a period of 18 months after the 
policies original start date. This in recognition that Mrs H couldnt go on holiday at the point 
originally planned. 
If Mrs J didnt want to accept the above options, Great Lakes said it could provide Mrs J with 
a pro-rata credit voucher of £23.27. It said Mrs J could use this voucher, any time over the 
next 36 months, to purchase a new travel insurance policy with it. This voucher had been 
calculated based on when Great Lakes understood Mrs Js trip to have been cancelled  12 
May 2020, to the date the policy was originally due to end, on 13 July 2020. 
Mrs J didnt feel this offer was fair. Mrs J felt she should be provided with a refund for the 
policy, and that this refund should be in cash.
Because Mrs J remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that the offer Great Lakes provided was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. 
Mrs J didnt agree and maintained her view that she should be provided with a monetary 
refund for the policy.
Because Mrs J didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  because I think the offer Great 
Lakes has provided in this instance is fair. Ive explained why I think Great Lakes offer is 
reasonable below.
The right to cancel
When deciding a complaint, I must give regard to rules and guidance in relation to the issue 
complained about. There are rules and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an 
insurance contract. So, Ive considered these.
The rules and guidance on cancellation of an insurance contract are set out in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)  provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), who are the insurance industry regulator. 
These explain that in insurance contracts like Mrs Js travel insurance policy, there is a 14-
day cooling off period. This allows a consumer to cancel the policy without any penalty  and 
without the consumer needing to give a reason to cancel the policy. This is what is called 
the right to cancel.
With this in mind, Mrs J did have the right to cancel her insurance policy within 14 days of 
taking it out. ICOBS explains that if a consumer has the above right to cancel, a consumer 
may be required to pay for the service they actually received under the insurance contract, 
and that this may include an amount of cover provided i.e. a proportion of the policys 
exposure that relates to time on risk.
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mrs J didnt cancel her insurance policy within 14 days. And neither party disputes this. 
Under the above rules and guidance even if Mrs J had cancelled her insurance policy within 
14 days, she wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. Great Lakes 
had been covering Mrs J for the risk of cancelling the upcoming trips that were covered 
under the policy during that time. 
ICOBS does also say that a firm can provide longer, or additional cancellation rights 
voluntarily  as long as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer 
as the above, unless the difference are clearly explained. 
The policy cancellation rightsIve reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Js policy, to see what this says about her 
cancellation rights. And Im aware these say;
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Given the above, Mrs Js cancellation rights under her policy are more favourable to her than 
is required by the industry rules on the matter. They do allow for a refund after the 14-day 
period, at Great Lakes discretion, in exceptional circumstances. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the individual policyholder 
such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical conditions. I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider the Covid-19 global 
pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of situation, which affected 
many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is 
intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs J is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
The offer of a credit voucher
Having said that, I do understand that Mrs Js need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of her control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of 
the policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding 
Covid-19.
As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs 
Js contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 13 January 
2020. 
Mrs J wasnt just insured for the dates of travel explained above. The policy also provided 
her with cover for cancellation, from 13 January 2020. And I can see Mrs Js policy schedule 
did highlight this. Taking this into account, the premium Mrs J paid covered the risk of her 
needing to cancel her policy due any of the listed events insured her the policy  including if 
Mrs J was to fall ill with a declared, pre-existing medical condition. 
As our investigator has noted, Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mrs J making a 
successful claim on the policy from 13 January 2020 until her holiday was cancelled. Mrs J 
hasnt been able to give specific details of the date her holiday was cancelled. Great Lakes 
has suggested Mrs J called it on the date she found out her holiday was cancelled. And I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence to confirm otherwise. So, Ive based my decision on 
the holiday being cancelled on 12 May 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mrs Js cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, once Mrs Js holiday was cancelled as a result of the global pandemic, Great 
Lakes no longer bore any risk under the insurance policy. The holiday had been cancelled, 
and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. As the holiday was no longer going 
ahead, Great Lakes wasnt carrying any risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other 
insured reason. And as Mrs J wasnt going on the trip abroad, Great Lakes was no longer 
carrying any risk of a claim being made whilst Mrs J was away on the holiday. 
Given that this is a unique and unprecedented set of circumstances resulting from the Covid-
19 pandemic, I do think it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund 
of the premium Mrs J paid for her travel insurance policy  from the date the holiday was 
cancelled, and Great Lakes was no longer on risk. 
Great Lakes agreed to provide a pro-rata refund to Mrs J, by way of a credit voucher, rather 
than by providing a cash refund. So, Ive needed to think about whether the offer made  the 
provision of a voucher  was fair. When Ive thought about what is fair here, Ive needed to 
think about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties  Mrs J, and Great Lakes.
Having considered this, I do think Great Lakes offer to pay a refund by providing a voucher is 
fair. As noted above, I do appreciate the reasons why Mrs J felt her insurance policy was no 
longer needed. But Mrs J had entered into a contract with Great Lakes. She agreed to pay 
the premium detailed in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk of a valid claim being made 
under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to 
accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mrs J. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes has offered to provide a voucher to Mrs J, and she can use this voucher 
towards purchasing a new insurance policy with Great Lakes  with the voucher being valid 
for a period of 36 months. 
I understand Mrs J thinks the offer of this voucher is unfair. She has said that given her 
health, her doctor had advised her not to leave the house. And, there were government 
restrictions on travel due to the pandemic. But, as above, the voucher is valid for 36 months, 
so gives Mrs J a reasonable period of time to make use of it. So, I dont think the offer of the 
voucher is unreasonably restrictive. And, I also need to bear in mind that Mrs J was willing 
and able to travel with her declared conditions when she took out the policy.
Great Lakes did also agree to allow Mrs J to change the dates of her trip on the policy, for up 
to 18 months following its original start date, if she didnt want to take the above voucher 
offered to her. And I do also think this was reasonable, given the unprecedented scenario 
surrounding the pandemic. It allowed Mrs J the option to take the trip at a later date, and still 
be covered by the policy. 
The value of the pro-rata credit voucher
Because Ive said it is reasonable for Mrs J to receive a voucher, Ive considered whether 
the value of the voucher Great Lakes has provided is fair. Great Lakes has provided me with information on how Mrs Js premium is calculated. And this shows me that it doesnt break 
the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation, and post-departure cover. 
Instead, the premium charged to Mrs J is split equally across the whole period of cover.
It is for the insurer to decide the way it calculates the premiums it charges. And it will 
calculate this taking into account a range of different considerations and risk factors, such as 
previous claims experience, how likely it is a claim will occur, and its own commercial 
interests as a business. An insurer must just make sure it treats its customers fairly. 
Ive reviewed the information Great Lakes has provided me, which details its reasoning for 
calculating the premiums as it does. And I dont think there is any material unevenness in the 
incident of risk across the life of its single trip policies. And I am satisfied that Great Lakes 
hasnt treated Mrs J differently, or unfairly, to any other Great Lakes customers in similar 
circumstances to theirs.
The value of the voucher Great Lakes is offering has been calculated based on Mrs Js 
unused period of travel insurance cover. The premium Mrs J paid for this policy was for a 
period of approximately 183 days, from the policy start date of 13 January 2020, to the 13 
July 2020, when Mrs Js policy was due to end.
The voucher value offered Mrs J equated to the premiums equivalent to 63 unused days of 
cover, from 12 May 2020 when Mrs Js holiday was cancelled, until the planned end date of 
her trip on 13 July 2020. 
As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 63 days after the holiday 
was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And, I wont be requiring it do so 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes Insurance 
SE has offered Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman