DRN-3569440
The complaint
Mr W complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt give him notice about 
changes to his packaged bank account, and that he lost out as a result. 
What happened
Mr W had had an Ultimate Reward Current Account with Halifax since 2012. It came with 
various benefits such as worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, home emergency cover, and card protection. It also came with an overdraft that, 
up to £300, was fee and interest free. The account in 2012 cost £15 per month. It currently 
costs £17 per month. 
In January 2020, Halifax wrote to customers to say it would, from April 2020, start charging 
interest on any overdrafts over £50. Halifax has sent us a copy of the letter it says it sent to 
Mr W. The letter gave details of the interest rate it would charge Mr W, and gave examples 
of how much different overdrafts would cost each day. 
Mr W says he didnt receive the letter. He says he would have cancelled the packaged 
account if hed received the letter.
Mr W has told us the letter would have gone out during the lockdown period, when post was 
being lost. He has said Halifax should have emailed him or notified him through his banking 
app. 
Statements show that, after the change that happened in April 2020, Mr W kept his account 
in credit until March 2022, and so incurred no overdraft interest. Between 21 March 2022 
and 23 May 2022, Halifax charged Mr W interest for his overdraft on nine separate days. 
The total amount charged in that time was 65p. During the period after April 2020, Mr W 
would still have been able to use the other benefits that came with the packaged bank 
account.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and said they thought it shouldnt be upheld. Mr W 
disagreed, and so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Halifax is allowed under its terms and conditions to change details of the account package. 
And I think Halifax took reasonable steps to inform Mr W about the changes in advance, and 
to give him the opportunity to cancel the package. Sending the information by letter is a 
reasonable option. The letter had the right address, and I dont see that there was any 
reason why Halifax should have realised it might not have arrived. I also see the letter was 
sent in January 2020, which was several weeks before the first lockdown (which was 
announced on 23 March 2020).
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman