DRN-2883961
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about delays in his mortgage application to Barclays Bank UK PLC and the 
additional costs he incurred as a result.
What happened
Mr C applied for a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC in September 2020. He was under 
the impression hed have a decision within a couple of days of speaking to a Barclays 
representative, but things were delayed. Mr C was first told the holdup was due to concerns 
about his credit history and later because there was a technical issue affecting his 
application. He felt Barclays misled him about what was happening.
Mr C approached another lender as a back up in case the Barclays application didnt go 
through. He went ahead with that application alongside the Barclays application and 
incurred a valuation fee.
Mr C wanted Barclays to pay for the valuation and compensate him for rent hed had to pay 
for the stress hed experienced because of what happened
Barclays upheld Mr Cs complaint. They apologised for the delay, for wrongly giving Mr C the 
impression there were adverse entries on his credit file and for failing to explain the delays 
clearly. 
Barclays didnt agree to reimburse Mr C for the fee hed paid to the other lender or for the 
rent hed had to pay. But they apologised and offered Mr C £450 compensation which they 
paid to him in December 2020.
Mr C didnt think Barclays had resolved his complaint satisfactorily and he was also unhappy 
about the time Barclays took looking into his complaint. So, he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator felt Barclays had done enough to put things right for Mr C and didnt 
uphold his complaint. Since Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, Ive reviewed things 
afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was a first-time buyer and under some time pressure to complete the purchase of his 
property. So, I can understand the delays, which Barclays have acknowledged, will have 
been worrying and frustrating for Mr C.
Barclays have accepted they were wrong to give Mr C the impression there was an issue 
with his credit file. I accept this will have added to Mr Cs concern. Id expect Barclays to 
have given Mr C clear information at the time about why his application was being delayed.
Barclays apologised for the mistakes they made and paid Mr C £450 compensation. 
Mr C says he went ahead and made an application to another lender on Barclays advice. 
He thinks this impacted his credit file and he incurred a valuation fee as a result. Having 
considered what Mr Cs said and Barclays records from the time, I dont think Mr Cs 
recollection about what Barclays said it quite right  which is understandable given 
everything that was going on. Barclays left it to Mr C to decide if he wanted to approach 
another lender  so ultimately it was his choice to press ahead with that application and to 
pay for the valuation. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to pay 
Mr C the valuation fee. 
Mr C argues Barclays delays led to him having to pay additional rent and they should 
reimburse him for that. I can see that initial delays were due to Barclays technical issues, 
but they were ready to get a valuation by early October 2020. Some issues arose out of the 
valuation that needed to be clarified and some legal questions came up as well. But I cant 
say the application process was materially affected by any later delays by Barclays, 
including the time taken to look into his complaint. In any event, if Mr Cs mortgage had 
completed sooner, he would have had to make mortgage payments instead of rent. So, I 
dont think hes out of pocket and I wont ask Barclays to pay the rent Mr Cs asked they pay.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the apology Barclays gave and the compensation of £450 
they paid Mr C for the impact of their failure to give him clear information about what was 
happening and the delays they caused, was fair and reasonable. I dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything else to put things right. And for that reason, whilst I understand it will 
be disappointing for Mr C, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman