DRN-2929530
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as U has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim, after it was forced to close by the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr M, a director of U, has brought the complaint on Us behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds includes anything done by the underwriters.
What happened
U held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. It claimed on its policy after 
being forced to close by the Governments response to the national Covid-19 pandemic. U 
thought its claim should be covered under either the extension for denial of access or the 
extension for disease.   
 
Lloyds turned down Us claim. They said the extension for disease would only provide cover 
if Us closure was due to a case of Covid-19 at Us premises, but U had closed as a result of 
the Governments response to the pandemic. Lloyds said the extension for denial of access 
didnt provide cover as that required the business interruption to be due to damage to 
property within a one-mile radius and they didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to 
property.  
 
As U was unhappy with Lloyds response, it brought its complaint to our service.  
 
U told us that one of its business partners had had to self-isolate for two weeks from           
16 March 2020.  
 
Our investigator looked into Us complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
there was enough evidence to conclude that it was most likely someone at Us premises had 
Covid-19, so he didnt think the extension for disease covered the claim. He also didnt think 
that the extension for denial of access provided cover for Us claim as he didnt think Covid-
19 had caused damage to property within a one-mile radius of Us premises.  
 
U disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the claim was similar to the 
circumstances of a previously successful claim where access to its premises was prevented 
by fly tipping. It also said that the meaning of the word loss includes a loss of money, which 
is what had happened. U said the wording of the policy should reasonably be interpreted to 
cover the circumstances of the claim or be read in Us favour if it was ambiguous.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Us business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Us claim.  
 
Denial of access 
 
The relevant part of this extension says: 
 
Subject to the conditions of this Section Loss or Damage resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of Loss or Damage 
(as within defined) to Property within a one mile radius of the Premises or Loss or 
Damage to which shall prevent the use of the Premises or access thereto 
whether the Premises or Property of the Insured therein shall be damaged or 
not shall be deemed to be loss resulting from Loss or Damage to Property used 
by the Insured at the Premises  
 
The policy defines loss or damage as Tangible loss destruction or damage.  
 
For the first part of this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Us 
business would need to be in consequence of tangible loss, destruction or damage to 
property within a one mile radius of Us premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to property within a one-mile radius which 
prevented the use of, or access to, Us premises. 
 
I think this policy could have been drafted more clearly but I believe the second part of this 
extension would provide cover where there is loss or damage to something that prevents the 
use of, or access to, Us premises. However, as above, I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to something which prevented the use of, 
or access to Us premises. 
 
Therefore, when considering the wording of this extension as a whole, I dont think it 
provides cover for the circumstances of Us claim. 
  
I accept that the meaning of the word loss in other contexts could mean loss of money, and 
that losing money is tangible; however, in an insurance context the wording loss or 
damage is generally accepted to mean a physical loss and I think the wording destruction 
or damage after tangible loss indicates this meaning in this policy.  
 
Moreover, the loss or damage would need to have been the cause of the prevention of 
access to Us premises. This causation was present in Us previous claim following an 
incidence of fly-tipping. However, in the current circumstances it was Covid-19 and the 
Governments actions that prevented access to Us premises, rather than any loss or 
damage.  
 
So Im afraid I dont think this extension provides cover for the circumstances of Us claim.  
 
Disease 
 
The relevant part of this extension covers 
 Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
contagious and/or infectious human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable contagious and/or 
infectious human disease manifesting at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so 
Ive considered the information I have to decide if its more likely than not that there was a 
case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Us premises.  
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.   
  
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which its policy covers.   
 
U said one of its business partners isolated for two weeks from 16 March 2020 due to 
symptoms of Covid-19. But I havent seen any other evidence to support this apart from Us 
testimony and I also have to bear in mind that many people with symptoms of Covid-19 at 
that time didnt actually have the disease. I also havent seen anything to indicate that the 
symptoms were present while the business partner was at Us premises. For these reasons, 
Im not persuaded that its most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at 
Us premises. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome U was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Us claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman