DRN-4031122
The complaint
Ms V complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has dealt 
with her account.
What happened
Ms V says in September 2022 she wished to transfer her AESEL account balance to a 
different credit card provider. She says she paid £158.04 towards the balance and made a 
balance transfer of £700 which ought to have left the account balance as zero. Ms V says 
AESEL then told her she owed it a further £300 but that amount didnt show on her banking 
application (app) when she made what she thought was the full payment. She says since 
then AESEL has added interest and charges to the balance as well as recording adverse 
information on her credit file. She also says it has passed her debt to a collection business. 
Ms V would like compensation for what took place and for her credit file to be amended.
AESEL says Ms V paid her August account statement but made further purchases at the 
end of August and early September 2022 which amounted to £313.19. It says it correctly 
added interest and applied charges in line with account terms and conditions when Ms V 
didnt pay the balance or make a required payment. And correctly reported the account 
position to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Ms V brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought there was a balance outstanding which Ms V owed. The investigator 
thought AESEL had acted in line with account terms and conditions and wasnt obliged to 
put the payments required on hold until the problem was investigated.
Ms V doesnt accept that view and maintains the problem with the app led to the problem 
and that AESEL has harassed her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Ms Vs account terms and conditions which I think she would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Ms V is required to make a monthly repayment and if not made, interest and charges would 
be applied. I have looked at AESELs records and can see that Ms V didnt make required 
payments towards the balance of just over £300. So, it follows that Im satisfied that AESEL 
didnt make a mistake or act unfairly and was entitled to charge interest and fees as well as 
write to Ms V about the balance.
I can see that Ms V owed AESEL £858.04 on her August statement. I can also see that she 
repaid that amount by a balance transfer and a payment of £158.04 but I dont think it clear 
why Ms V thought that cleared the total balance she owed AESEL. I say that as Ms V ought 
reasonably to have known that she used her AESEL account card for a number of 
purchases at the end of August 2022 and into early September 2022 which totalled £313.19. 
I appreciate Ms V says they didnt show on the banking app, but Im satisfied they were 
shown on the September 2022 account statement and have made clear Ms V ought to have 
known she made those purchases.
Im satisfied that Ms V owed AESEL the money and it is reasonably entitled to ask Ms V to 
repay that amount in line with the terms and conditions. If Ms V disputed that she made the 
payments, then she ought to have told AESEL that and can see that she has details of all of 
those purchases. It follows that Im satisfied that AESEL has correctly applied Ms Vs new 
spending to her September account statement and that she owes that balance. 
AESEL is obliged as part of its regulatory duties to provide accurate information to the 
CRAs. I have made clear that I find Ms V owed AESEL the money and she made the 
decision not to pay money she owed. So, Im satisfied AESEL had no choice but to report 
the account position to the CRAs and is entitled to make a decision to ask a third-party 
business to enforce or collect the debt. Im also satisfied that AESEL is obliged to provide Ms 
V with letters about the debt and is entitled to ask her to repay it. I dont think that amounts to 
harassment.
Overall, I find that AESEL hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly in asking Ms V to repay a 
debt she incurred. Im satisfied AESEL hasnt made a mistake in calculating the balance 
owed by Ms V and that she ought to have known she used her account card after the August 
2022 statement was issued and paid. It follows that as Ms V chose not to repay the balance 
that I cant fairly direct AESEL to remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file 
or pay her compensation as she would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman