DRN-2952261
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) treated him after he 
switched his current account o a different provider.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr B 2020 Mr B switched his bank account from Barclays to another 
bank using the current account switch service. The switch completed on 6 November 2020. 
Barclays wrote to Mr  B on 9 November 2020 to let him know the switch had completed. It 
also let him know that an overdrawn balance of £61.86 remained as his new bank hadnt 
agreed to clear it. 
Mr B says that following the switch he received letters from Barclays despite asking it to 
delete all of his data and not contact him. Barclays said Mr Bs account needed to remain 
active, as part of the current account switch services terms and conditions, so that any 
credits directed to his account could be redirected to his new account. It did however 
deactivate statements on the account. 
Mr B also says that a Barclays representative was rude and discriminatory towards him 
during a phone call. 
Mr B has made several points about breaches of the General Data Protection Regulations, 
including those related to retention and deletion of his personal data under the rules. Our 
investigator has explained to Mr B already that we wont consider those matters, as thats for 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to look at. So I wont refer to those points any 
further within my decision.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, so he referred it here. Our investigator also didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to contact Mr B 
about the overdrawn balance that remained on his account. 
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator the complaint has been referred to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome the investigator reached. Ill explained why. 
- Although Mr B says that his new bank let him know the account switch had gone 
successfully, its clear that it meant that the switch had taken place. I dont think that means 
that the overdrawn balance Mr B had with Barclays had been cleared  so I think its 
reasonable for Barclays to have brought this to Mr Bs attention. I also dont think  even 
without the overdrawn balance  that it was unreasonable for Barclays to contact Mr B 
shortly after the switch to let him know that it had completed. Whilst I understand Mr Bs 
strength of feeling towards Barclays, I dont think the letter it sent amounts to harassment, 
nor that it was sent to exacerbate the situation between the two parties. 
- Barclays has explained the reason it sent correspondence to Mr B; as the account was 
switched using the current account switch service, it remained active to allow any credits 
received to be forwarded on to Mr Bs new bank. And the reason Mr B was sent a statement 
in March 2021 was to show any such activity. As Ive already said, I do appreciate that Mr B 
doesnt want to deal with Barclays any longer, and Barclays has now deactivated sending 
statements to him. So in the absence of doing what Mr B has so far demanded, which is to 
erase all of his data completely, I think Barclays actions are reasonable.
- Ive listened to the call from January 2021 in which Mr B alleged that the Barclays 
representative discriminated against him. Im afraid Ive found no evidence of discrimination, 
nor poor service during the call. Mr B is clearly agitated from the start of the call, and on a 
number of occasions he raises his voice. Theres some confusion between what the 
Barclays representative was saying and what Mr B understood. But based on what Ive 
heard, thats not Barclays fault. During the call the Barclays representative attempted to 
explain things several times, whilst being interrupted by Mr B, before she eventually gave Mr 
B the option of her putting her findings in writing instead. At that point Mr B alleged that this 
was discrimination, as well as threatening to report the representative to the CEO as shes a 
disgrace. But from what Ive heard Im satisfied that what happened during this call doesnt 
amount to discrimination. Its clear that the Barclays representative was trying to do her job 
and explain her findings on Mr Bs complaint, in a courteous and patient way, and offering to 
write to Mr B wasnt to insult his intelligence, nor indeed was it related to any of the protected 
characteristics set out by the Equality Act 2010 which could amount to discrimination. 
I havent addressed everything in Mr Bs complaint because as Ive explained, Im not 
considering the points related to data protection. Mr B can direct those points to the ICO if he 
chooses to. But for the points I have considered, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman