DRN-3413789
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Shes unhappy with the service 
shes received from them since the end of the relationship with her previous financial 
adviser.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows: 
Mrs M complained to Aviva as she was unhappy with the service shed received 
since the relationship with her previous financial adviser ended. 
She was unhappy with the limitations on the Aviva platform for orphaned clients 
(clients without an attached adviser). She felt that she should have been made aware 
earlier of her options, any specific investment limitations and their implications. This 
would have allowed her to review her position and consider her options e.g. engaging 
another financial adviser or moving her investments to another platform provider.
The delay in receiving the information resulted in lost time, missed opportunities and 
had cost her a lot of money to hold her investments on the Aviva platform. 
She also thought Aviva should have done more to question the actions of her 
previous adviser. 
She thought that Aviva should be making it easier for her to invest her outstanding 
cash. The investment process for orphaned clients was protracted and cumbersome 
and wasnt conducive to timely and opportunistic investment. 
She was being charged fees of 0.15% when previously it was 0.13% with the adviser. 
This was unfair and was too high for the service she was receiving which was simply 
an electronic investment storage facility.
She couldnt deal in investment trusts and exchange traded funds. She thought she 
should be able to trade these instruments at her own risk in the same way as she 
was allowed to trade traditional funds.
She wanted a refund of all the monies paid since the end of the relationship with the 
adviser and wanted compensation for not being able to trade freely. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that as an orphan client, Mrs M 
didnt benefit from any discounts which would have been negotiated by her adviser. 
An adviser would also have done most of the administrative work and the higher 
charges reflected the extra work required of Aviva to make sure customers were 
aware of all options. 
They appreciated Mrs Ms frustration in trading on a non-advised basis and accepted 
that it extended the timescales for her to trade. They also acknowledged the 
concerns shed raised about her previous adviser but explained that the adviser was 
an independent entity to Aviva and therefore they couldnt comment on his actions.
They thought they could have been clearer in their correspondence and paid Mrs M 
£150 in compensation. 
Mrs M didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva hadnt breached the 
terms of the agreement they had with Mrs M. He noted her concerns but thought the 
changes in fees and limitations that would apply were set out in a letter Aviva had 
sent her in September 2020. And while Avivas processes regarding making trades 
differed from other providers, that didnt mean that they were treating Mrs M unfairly. 
He acknowledged that they couldve responded sooner on some occasions and been 
clearer in some of their communications but thought that their offer of £150 was fair 
compensation. 
Mrs M didnt agree and said she believed Aviva could have looked after her better. 
She thought she should have been provided with an orphan client pack after the end 
of her relationship with her adviser. She didnt think that the investigator should have 
relied on a letter that had been allegedly been sent but she hadnt received. Shed 
spent considerable effort trying to engage with Aviva but found it to be an onerous 
process and thought they needed to have explained earlier that once a transfer had 
been started then further trading was not possible. 
Avivas offer of £150.00 was inadequate and she wanted the investigator to 
reconsider his assessment of the offer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mrs Ms strength of feeling regarding this complaint. 
Id like to assure her that Ive read and considered everything shes told us. Im aware Ive 
summarised the complaint points in less detail than she has, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. I note that Mrs M has raised a number of issues with Aviva 
and Id like to clarify that this complaint is solely about the poor service shes received on her 
account. 
This service isnt the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our 
service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a 
commercial decision. Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this 
complaint and check that Aviva followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by 
the regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
Mrs M has said that Aviva should have done more to question the actions of her previous 
adviser. However, Im not persuaded that they should have. The terms of the account she  held said We will not apply any discretion when dealing on Your behalf nor accept liability 
for any losses, direct or consequential, which You may realise as a result of the Investment 
decisions made by You or in conjunction with Your Adviser or DIM. Therefore, I dont think 
they had a responsibility to review or comment on the actions of the previous adviser. 
The rest of Mrs Ms complaint centres around the changes to her Aviva account when the 
relationship with her adviser ended and the impact of these changes. Ive therefore 
considered if and when Mrs M was made aware of the changes. From what Ive seen Aviva 
sent Mrs M a letter on 25 September 2020. The letter said:
We have been informed by your financial adviser that they are no longer dealing with your 
Platform account. Weve stopped paying the adviser charge you set up with them, so you will 
need to find out whether there are any outstanding fees. 
You have two options now. You can appoint a new financial adviser to deal with your 
account, or you can choose to manage your account yourself. Depending on which option 
you choose, your account charges could change so its important you consider your options 
before making a decision.
The letter went on to explain how Mrs M could manage her account and said: 
Some of our investments are only available through financial advisers. This means there be 
some assets which you cant invest in if youre managing your account yourself. These are: 
 Structured products
 Offshore funds
 Shares and other exchange traded investments
 Model Portfolios
Any existing investments youve got in them will remain, and you can sell the assets you 
already hold, but you wont be able to buy any more.
If youre investing money from a direct debit into a model portfolio or assets which are no 
longer available, well start applying it as 100% cash. You can choose new assets to invest 
this money in using your online Platform account. You should bear in mind the interest rate 
you receive on cash investments can be lower than your plan charges. This means the value 
of your money could do down if its invested in cash long term.
Its also important you know that any existing arrangement you have in place to regularly 
rebalance your portfolio will be cancelled.
I think the letter was clear about the changes that would be made to the account, including 
the change to the charging structure. I appreciate the point Mrs M has made about not 
receiving the letter but the evidence Ive seen shows that the letter was correctly addressed 
to her so I dont think I can fairly say that Aviva didnt make her aware of the changes. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs M has said regarding the processes that Aviva have in 
place for orphaned clients and the limitations on trading once a transfer to another provider 
started. I appreciate the points shes made, but as Ive said above, it isnt for this service to 
interfere in commercial decisions. Avivas processes may differ to that of other businesses, 
but I dont think its unreasonable for a business to use their commercial judgement to set 
their own processes.I also appreciate that Aviva could have made the trading restrictions clearer to Mrs M earlier 
than they did. But I think that even if they had done, its more likely than not that Mrs M 
would still have made the decision to move to another provider. I say this because of the 
many concerns she has raised about Avivas processes and charges  I dont think a trading 
restriction would have made her keep her holdings on their platform. Therefore, she still 
wouldnt have been able to trade while the transfer was pending so I dont think I can fairly 
say that Aviva have caused her to suffer a loss.
That being said, I think that Aviva caused Mrs M inconvenience by not being clearer about 
the challenges she would face when trying to invest regular monthly amounts. There were 
also delays in providing information shed requested. But having taken everything into 
account, I think the £150 that theyve paid her is fair compensation for the inconvenience 
they have caused. 
So, in summary, while I appreciate Mrs Ms concerns, I dont think Aviva have treated her 
unfairly. From what Ive seen, theyve kept to the terms of the account that Mrs M held with 
them and while theyve caused her inconvenience, the compensation theyve paid her is fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited have already paid Mrs M £150 in compensation which is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman