DRN-4333544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of their bank account (the
policy). The policy was underwritten by AXA at the time.
Mr and Mrs B also have the benefit of a timeshare arrangement which has been in place for
many years. They must pay a number of weeks in advance of the first of the week of their
use of the timeshare property for a particular calendar year. If theyre in any arrears, Mr and
Mrs B say theyre not allowed to use any of their scheduled weeks for that year. And if
unpaid for two consecutive years, Mr and Mrs Bs share of the timeshare property can be
sold.
In early October 2020, Mr and Mrs B made their usual contractual payment for their
allocated timeshare weeks in 2021. However, they were unable to make use of those weeks
for reasons relating to the Covid-19 pandemic  including national lockdown restrictions in
place at the time and the Foreign and Commonwealth Offices advice against all but
essential travel to the Country  and island  where Mr and Mrs B have a timeshare
property.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on the policy for the unrecoverable part of the amount theyd
paid under the timeshare agreement in early October 2020 for use of the timeshare property
in 2021. That claim was declined by AXA. It said the FCO advice not to travel was in place at
time the payment for the timeshare was made and it was foreseeable that they wouldnt be
able to travel.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think that was fair. Because they had to make the contractual payment
when they did. Unhappy, they complained to AXA and although it accepted that it shouldve
provided them with better service, it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator
looked into what happened and didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree so their complaint
was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2023 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 
..
AXA has an obligation handle insurance complaint fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
In its final response letter dated July 2022, AXA accepted that it shouldve provided better
service to Mr and Mrs B after a claim was made on the policy and it took too long to provide
an outcome to their complaint about their claim being unfairly turned down. In total it paid
£200 compensation to Mr and Mrs B. Im satisfied that amount fairly reflects the distress and
inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs B because of these service failings. I accept it
wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient to wait longer than necessary for an outcome,
not receiving promised call backs and waiting in telephone queues to speak to a
representative.
However, for reasons set out below, I dont think AXA has unfairly declined the claim.
Travel disruption
The policys terms and conditions provide cover for travel disruption (section Q). The terms
reflect:
Before You reach Your destination
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including
excursions up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from
any other source if You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other
regulatory authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all
travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to
providing the advice came into force after You opened Your account or made Your
travel arrangements for this Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of
Your departure date
Pre-paid Charges are defined as:
charges You have paid before You travel, or are contracted to pay, for car hire, car
parking, airport accommodation, airport lounge access, kennel and cattery fees,
excursions, green fees and ski passes and/or lessons.
Mr and Mrs B paid the service charges for their timeshare (to be used in 2021) in early
October 2020. At the time, Im satisfied that the FCO was advising against all but essential
travel to the country  and the particular island  Mr and Mrs B were hoping to travel to. That
advice didnt change until the end of October 2020.
Mr and Mrs B were unable to travel abroad to use the timeshare property in the early part of
2021 due to the government restrictions around leaving home (i.e. the national lockdown)
and the FCO advice in place at the time, relating to Covid-19.
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to conclude that making the contractual payment for
their planned trips in 2021 (which I understand from Mr and Mrs B are the same scheduled
weeks each year) amounted to making travel arrangements for the trips that they werent
able to take in 2021. And as this was paid at the time the FCO advice was advising against
all but essential travel to the particular island, I dont think AXA has unfairly concluded that
the claim wasnt covered.
Further, and in the alternative, although accommodation isnt defined, I dont think it would
be fair and reasonable to conclude that the payment made in October 2020 represented
payment for accommodation. Thats because Im satisfied an annual maintenance fee for the
timeshare property isnt specifically part of the unused or pre-paid accommodation cost of
their trip. Rather, its the annual amount Mr and Mrs B are contracted to pay their timeshare
resort each year, even if they make use of the timeshare property or not.I also dont think the payment made in early October 2020 amounted to a pre-paid charge as
defined by the policy  set out above.
Cancellation
The policys terms and conditions also provide cover for cancellation and curtailment
(section A). The terms reflect:
We will pay You up to £5,000for any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges
(including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which You
have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel
expenses incurred if
cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable
as a result of any of the following events occurring
A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from,
the country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a
directive came into force after You have left the United Kingdom.
Even if I accepted that the FCO advice against all but essential travel to the island where Mr
and Mrs B had their timeshare property - in conjunction with the national lockdown in place
at the time  amounted to a government directive not to travel abroad, for similar reasons set
out above when considering cover for trip disruption under the policy, I dont think AXA has
unfairly declined the claim. Thats because:
although not defined under this section of the policy, I think its fair and reasonable in
the circumstances of this case to conclude that pre-paid charges include those
defined under the trip disruption section of the policy. The cancellation section of the
policy says pre-paid charges includes green fees and thats also listed under the
definition of pre-paid charges in the travel disruption section of the policy.
although accommodation isnt defined, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable
to conclude that the payment made in October 2020 represented payment for
accommodation. Thats because Im satisfied an annual maintenance fee for the
timeshare property isnt specifically part of the unused or pre-paid accommodation
cost of their trip. As Ive explained, I think its the annual amount Mr and Mrs B are
contracted to pay their timeshare resort each year, even if they make use of the
timeshare property or not.
Further, the cancellation section of the policy excludes:
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
circumstances known to You prior to the date You opened a new Added Value
Account or at the time of booking any Trip which could reasonably have been
expected to give rise to cancellation or Curtailment of the Trip.
Mr and Mrs B have said that Covid-19 wasnt a foreseen event at the time they bought and
committed to their set timeshare weeks, years ago.
However, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that the dates when they firstbought and scheduled their timeshare weeks should be taken to be the date they made their
booking. Im satisfied that their payment was made for the trip they intended to go on in
2021, when they made payment in early October 2020. Afterall, to secure the weeks for
2021, they had to make the contractual payment in 2020.
But alternatively, if that isnt right, then I dont think the costs being claimed relate to the trip
Mr and Mrs B intended to take in 2021 as they relate to a contractual agreement a timeshare
owner is always obligated to pay, regardless of whether the timeshare is actually used.
Although not relied upon by AXA when first declining the claim, I think its important to note
that the travel disruption section of the policy excludes:
Accommodation costs paid for using any Timeshare, Holiday Property Bond or other
holiday points scheme 
Ive considered all points raised by Mr and Mrs B about this exclusion in response to our
investigators view. But I dont agree. I dont think the above term is ambiguous with regards
to what type of timeshare costs are excluded. In common with many other travel insurance
policies on the market, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover timeshare costs
in any event.

I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider. AXA 
didnt reply. Mr and Mrs B did. In summary they said:
By mid-August 2020, most lockdown 1 restrictions had been lifted. And so by the 
time of making payment in October 2020, it appeared that life was returning to 
normal and the worst of the global pandemic appeared to be over. What became 
known as lockdown 2 was only announced at the end of October 2020.
They disagree that when they made payment in October 2020 it was foreseeable that 
they wouldnt be able to travel due to the FCO advice in place at the time.
Not being able to travel in 2021 formed part of lockdown 3 and was therefore not 
anticipated in October 2020. There were two separate and unconnected travel bans.
The timeshare was for use of accommodation. Its no different to staying in a hotel.
The reference to timeshare is irrelevant. And they disagree that the exclusion 
mentioning timeshare is relevant to this complaint.
AXA had considered paying the claim so isnt wholly against reimbursing timeshare 
fees.
Mr and Mrs B have also provided an invoice for payment for all weeks owned during their 
visit under the timeshare agreement for 2024. This refers to their forthcoming stay  which 
implies use of accommodation and facilities. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Some restrictions had been lifted in the UK in the summer of 2020 and life, for many, may 
have seemed to be getting back to normal as Mr and Mrs B say. However, at the time of 
making payment, Im satisfied that not being able to travel because of Covid-19 was a foreseeable event. The FCO advice was still in place advising against all but essential travel 
to the country  and the particular island  Mr and Mrs B were hoping to travel to. 
That advice subsequently changed and then changed again at a later date. However, at the 
time they made payment, Im satisfied that AXA has fairly concluded that it was foreseeable 
that Mr and Mrs B may not be able to travel when they intended to  notwithstanding some 
other government restrictions being lifted.
Im not persuaded that its relevant that the date they had wished to travel occurred during 
lockdown 3 or after the FCO had reverted back to giving advice against all but essential 
travel to Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination. Im satisfied the relevant consideration is what 
was reasonably foreseeable at the time they made payment and the travel advice that was in 
place at the time. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision, the reasons why I think the claim reasonably isnt 
covered under the travel disruption and cancellation sections of the policy. Ive considered 
Mr and Mrs Bs further points in response, but they dont change my mind. I remain satisfied 
an annual maintenance fee for the timeshare property isnt specifically part of the unused or 
pre-paid accommodation cost of their trip. As Ive explained, I think its the annual amount Mr 
and Mrs B are contracted to pay their timeshare resort each year, even if they make use of 
the timeshare property or not.
So, for these reasons, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which 
is set out above and forms part of my final decision), I dont think AXA has unfairly declined 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman