DRN-4519541
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as MG Motor Financial Services was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 14 July 2022, Miss S was supplied with a used electric car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. She paid an advance payment of £2,554.52 and the agreement 
was for £20,705.48 over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £359.37 and a final 
payment of £9,367.49. At the time of supply, the car was around two and a half years old 
and had done 9,383 miles.
In October 2022, Miss S complained to Santander that she was experiencing problems with 
the brakes, the battery wasnt holding its charge, there was water leaking into the car, and 
there were issues with the anti-collision system and cameras. Santander arranged for the 
car to be inspected by an independent engineer.
The independent engineer said there were no issues with the battery or anti-collision system 
and cameras; and the brakes were working as expected. However, the engineer did identify 
the point where water was getting into the car. Santander upheld the complaint, and repairs 
to fix the water leak were completed in December 2022.
Miss S said the repairs werent completed correctly, and the communication from the 
supplying dealership about this had been poor. So, she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator agreed there was a fault with the car but said this had now been repaired. 
And there was no evidence the repairs had failed. He also said that the communication from 
the dealer wasnt something Santander could be held responsible for. So, he didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Miss S wasnt happy with this, and she provided photos she said showed the repairs to the 
water leak had failed, and water was still getting into the car. Based on these photos, the 
investigator changed their view. They said that, as the attempted repair had failed, Miss S 
should now be allowed to reject the car.
The investigator recommended that Santander take back the car and end the agreement; 
refund 20% of the payments Miss S had made; and pay Miss S an additional £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. They didnt think the evidence was sufficient to 
show the repairs had failed, as this leak related to a different area in the car to where the 
repairs were carried out. They also said that Miss S didnt report the failed repairs to the 
dealership. So, they believed they should have the opportunity to reinvestigate the matter, 
and that the car should be independently inspected again.
Miss S agreed with the investigator but raised issues about the V5C document meaning the 
car couldnt be taxed, which has resulted in the car being impounded by the local council. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 December 2023, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
Where evidence has been incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance 
of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence 
and wider circumstances.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss S to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss S took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its extremely important for me to set 
out exactly what Ive been able to consider here, and how. I note Miss S is unhappy with 
how the dealership communicated with her about the repairs to the car, and when it was 
ready for collection. While I appreciate her frustration with this, the dealership is a separate 
company, and dont form part of Santander. As such, its not reasonable for me to hold 
Santander responsible for the dealerships communication. So, I wont be considering this as 
part of my decision.
Miss S has also raised the issue of the V5C document. While Ive noted this was initially 
mentioned in the complaint form she submitted to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
January 2023, Ive not seen anything to show me that shes ever raised this issue with 
Santander. The Financial Ombudsman Service are only able to consider complaints that 
have been raised with the financial business, and where the financial business have had the 
opportunity to investigate and respond to the complaint. As Ive not seen this is the case 
here, the issues with the V5C also wont form part of my decision.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 15 November 2022. In this 
report, the engineer concluded the only issue with the car was water ingress into the boot, 
that was causing dampness, heavy misting and condensation within the vehicle. The 
engineer said that the cause of the water ingress was missing bolts securing the spoiler to 
the tailgate and that this issue was present or developing at the point of supply.The engineer also confirmed their duty is to the courts, not to the person who instructed or 
paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon.
Its not disputed that the dealership undertook repairs on the car in December 2022. And the 
dealership says the water ingress issues raised by the independent engineer were fixed. 
Where the identified issues have been successfully repaired, I would normally conclude that 
no further action needs to be taken.
Ive seen an email from the dealership dated 21 March 2023 stating they still had the car as 
their ongoing attempts to contact Miss S for collection/delivery continued to be unsuccessful 
 Miss S failed to answer their calls and didnt respond to voicemails. In an email dated 21 
April 2023, Miss S confirmed that the dealership had been in contact with her in January 
2023 about collecting the car, and the car was delivered back to her that day.
Miss S wasnt happy with the quality of the repairs and has said the water leak remains. 
Shes provided photographs dated 21 April 2023. While these show what is potentially a 
loose trim, and water droplets around the arial on the outside of the car; Im not satisfied they 
are sufficient evidence that the repair was unsuccessful and the water leak remains. 
Given that Miss S has had the car in her possession for a number of months, Id expect 
there to be further evidence of the water leak continuing i.e., photo/video evidence of the 
water ingress, the misting and condensation resulting from this, and/or a report from an 
independent engineer or garage which says that the previous repair failed and/or a water 
leak remains. 
Without any additional evidence from Miss S, and based on the photos from 21 April 2023 
alone, Im unable to agree with the investigator that the repair failed, and Miss S should now 
be allowed to reject the car. And I dont intend to ask Santander to do anything more.
Responses
Santander accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
Miss S didnt accept my provisional decision. She said that shed told Santander many 
times that shed never received the V5C document, evidence of which can be found on her 
emails to Santander. But she says we never requested copies of these from her.
Miss S also said that she was never asked to provide any further evidence of the ongoing 
issues with the car, despite asking us if we needed her to provide this. She feels its unfair 
for us to not ask for this, and then make a decision based on the lack of evidence when this 
now cant be provided.
Finally, Miss S has said that she only ever received one text message from the dealership to 
let her know the repairs to the car had been completed, and that no one ever called or said 
anything until the email [a] few months after this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Ss comments about the missing V5C document. The evidence shes 
provided of her complaints to Santander doesnt show that she ever raised this. Despite it 
being clear in my provisional decision that we havent seen any evidence, and Miss S saying she has it available, she again chose not to provide this to us along with her comments on 
my provisional decision.
As the registered keeper, the DVLA will have issued the V5C to Miss S. Publicly available 
records show this was issued on 20 July 2022, six days after the car was supplied to Miss S. 
While I dont doubt Miss S never received this, its the DVLA who are responsible for issuing 
this document, not Santander. And the information on the DVLA website shows that a 
replacement V5C is issued within two weeks of a request from the registered keeper (in this 
instance Miss S). 
As such, even if I were to accept that Miss S complained to Santander about this issue 
(despite having no evidence to show this was the case), as the registered keeper she would 
always have had to contact the DVLA for a replacement document, something she was able 
to do with or without Santander responding to this complaint point. As such, I cant hold 
Santander responsible for the consequences of Miss S failing to tax the car because she 
failed to request the document from the DVLA that would allow her to do so.
With regards to the ongoing issues with the car, Ive seen we asked Miss S to provide 
evidence of this on 24 April 2023 (before the investigator issued their initial view). On 11 
August 2023, after receiving the initial view, Miss S said that wed not requested any 
evidence of the ongoing fault and asked to be able to provide this. In reply, she was advised 
by the investigator, you can send any additional information to me.
Given this, I cant agree that Miss S wasnt both asked and given the opportunity to prove 
the ongoing fault with the car. 
Finally, Ive noted Miss Ss comments about not being chased by the dealership to collect 
the car after initially being advised it had been repaired. While I note this differs from what 
Ive already seen, as I explained in my provisional decision, this is a complaint about the 
dealership, not Santander. And Santander arent responsible for when and how the 
dealership contacted Miss S about the repairs. As such, this has no bearing on my decision 
about Santander.
For the reasons already given, the comments from Miss S dont change my view. And I 
remain satisfied that there is no compelling evidence to show me the repairs in December 
2022 failed. As such, I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc trading as MG Motor Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman