DRN-2074721
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society took back money it had refunded him for 
fraudulent transactions, when the company involved duplicated the refund. Mr H says he got 
into financial problems, because Nationwide didnt tell him it was going to do this.
What happened
Mr H told us he had some unauthorised transactions on his account. He told Nationwide 
about them, and it refunded him promptly. But then he said that Nationwide had refunded 
him twice, and decided to take back one of the refunds, without calling or sending him an 
email. 
Mr H said Nationwide took this money out of his account at the end of November, so he 
needed to borrow some money to pay bills and buy gifts for Christmas. Mr H wanted 
Nationwide to pay back the money it had taken out of his account, plus all the money hed 
had to borrow, plus interest. 
Nationwide said it had refunded the transactions Mr H didnt recognise. But then Mr H 
received a refund from one of the companies involved as well. So Nationwide wrote to him to 
tell him it was going to take the duplicated refund back. It set out for him how much that was, 
and when it would take the money back. 
Nationwide didnt think Mr H could keep two refunds of the same amount. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong by taking this money back. Nationwide wrote to Mr H, and confusingly, 
said that it hadnt contacted him in advance to tell him the money was coming out of his 
account, although we now know it did. Its since shown us the letter it sent Mr H. Nationwide 
offered Mr H £25 as a goodwill gesture, but Mr H didnt accept this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Nationwide had 
started chargeback requests for transactions on Mr Hs card that he said he didnt recognise. 
And as part of that, it had paid temporary credits for thee amounts of the disputed 
transactions. When Mr H got a refund from one of the retailers involved, Nationwide then 
took the temporary credit back. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. She said that Mr H 
shouldve been aware that if he was refunded twice for the same transaction, the bank would 
take its money back. Our investigator thought that the offer Nationwide had made of £25 was 
enough to make up for what had gone wrong here. She said that Mr H could still accept that. 
Our investigator didnt think that problems Mr H had experienced with his finances after this 
were Nationwides fault. but she encouraged Mr H  to talk to Nationwide if he was facing 
financial difficulty. 
Mr H still thought Nationwide shouldve contacted him before it took the money back. And he 
said he was now in debt for over £1,200 because of what Nationwide had done. Mr H said 
he wanted Nationwide to pay him this. He didnt think it had thought about the impact that 
just taking this money would have on his finances or on his health. 
Our investigator forwarded the letter that Nationwide had sent to Mr H on 11 November, 
saying it was going to take back the credit to his account that had recently been duplicated. 
Mr H wrote again to tell us about the stress hed been under recently. Because he didnt 
agree without investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this decision as our investigator. 
Mr H accepted on a call with Nationwide that hed seen the duplicated refund paid into his 
account by the company. So, like our investigator, I think Mr H ought to have been aware 
that Nationwide would want to take back the refund it had already provided to him. 
Mr H complained that Nationwide hadnt rung him or emailed him to tell him that it was going 
to take the money out of his account. But I can see that Nationwide wrote to Mr H to tell him 
this. I think it set out there everything I would expect it to. It explained which transactions Mr 
H had been refunded twice for, what it was going to do, and when. 
I know that Mr H has told us that when Nationwide took this money back, he was left very 
short of money, and had to borrow elsewhere. Hes also told us that hes experienced more 
financial problems since then. Im very sorry to hear that. But I dont think thats Nationwides 
fault, and I dont think it has to pay Mr H back the duplicated refund it took from him in 
November, or help him to pay off a loan he took after that. 
If Mr H is still in financial difficulties now, I hope hell feel able to discuss that with 
Nationwide. But, although I know Mr H will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman