DRN-2318494
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs L are unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging a fee for a payment protection 
insurance claim (PPI), that they said Mrs L didnt authorise them to make. They said theyd 
made the PPI claims directly with the lenders.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mrs L in my decision
What happened
Mrs L said she made an online enquiry with Allay in April 2019 for a free PPI check to be 
done. She said shed asked her partner to check the terms and conditions, and when they 
saw that it wasnt solely for a free PPI check, she didnt sign anything. Mrs L also said she 
received the same documents from Allay and again checked these with her partner and 
again didnt sign or return the forms. Mrs L said she submitted her PPI claims directly with 
her lenders.
In August and December 2019, Mrs L said she received notification from her lenders, Ill call 
B and N that shed successful PPI claims and theyd paid compensation to her. But later 
Allay sent her an invoice asking her to pay their success fee. Mrs L complained to Allay.
In April 2019, Allay said Mrs L had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and shed 
signed several LoAs for a variety of her lenders, including B and N authorising them to 
act on her behalf to make her PPI claims. Allay said, in September 2019 Mrs L had also 
completed a PPI questionnaire with them giving further instruction for them to pursue her 
claims. In December 2019, Mrs L had a successful claim. And as their agreement with Mrs L 
hadnt been cancelled, their success fee was justified. 
Mrs L reiterated the signature on the LoAs wasnt hers and that shed been railroaded in 
the call with Allay and hadnt agreed to them submitting any claims for her. She said one of 
her lenders had clearly shown the action theyd taken was due to a letter from her and not 
Allay. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim. 
And theyd told Mrs L when they found shed PPI, and shed completed their PPI 
questionnaire over the telephone instructing them to act on her behalf. He said Allay could 
charge their fee.
Mrs L didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. 
I can understand Mrs Ls frustration as she doesnt agree that she asked Allay to look into 
whether she had any PPI. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I 
base my decision on what I think most likely happened.  So, I need to determine whether 
Mrs L had authorised Allay to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether she let them know 
she no longer wanted them to work for her. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in April 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs L has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mrs Ls lenders, and this detail was provided, 
and included lender B and lender N.  So, on balance I think Mrs L completed the on-line 
form as the information was specific to her. On completion of the application, an LoA was 
generated, populated with this information. Allay has stated the LoA couldnt be submitted 
without a signature being added. As I think Mrs L completed the application, I have no 
reason to doubt that she added the signature to the form. Allays terms and conditions were 
also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mrs L had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can
be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire 
online or over the telephone with Allay. 
And in September 2019 Allay did notify Mrs L that theyd found four PPI claims for her, three 
with lender B and one with lender N. Ive listened to the call during which Mrs L tells Allay 
that shed already been in touch with lender B and had received an award. But for lender 
N shed contacted them some years before but hadnt pursued the claim as she owed them 
money. Allay explained that for lender B theyd see if anything further was owed, and for 
lender N as PPI had been found they could pursue her claim. Mrs L agreed to complete the 
PPI questionnaire to help strengthen her claim. 
In completing the questionnaire Mrs L provided the details asked for and checked what 
would happen if the information wasnt completely accurate as she couldnt remember 
precise dates. I think Mrs L showed her understanding of what Allay would be doing for her 
as she also asked about the fee Allay would charge, and checked whether the fee was with 
or without VAT. So, Im satisfied that Mrs L instructed Allay to submit her claims.
I can see Allay on 24 April 2019 sent a subject access request to lender B. But I cant see 
they received a reply from that request. In July 2019 lender B told Mrs L they were looking 
into her claim for PPI. And in August 2019 they told Allay that Mrs Ls PPI claim had already 
been investigated. This confirms the details Mrs L gave Allay in the September 2019 call. As 
I havent seen any request from Allay for Mrs L to pay a fee for the successful claim for 
lender B, I wont comment any further.
In November 2019, Allay has shown that lender N acknowledged theyd received their 
submission of Mrs Ls PPI claim. And in December 2019 they told both Allay and Mrs L that 
the claim was successful. I think this shows lender N accepted Allay had authority to 
represent Mrs L in making her PPI claim, and they werent solely dealing with Mrs L. And Mrs L in the September 2019 call had confirmed she hadnt submitted a claim to lender N. 
So, Im satisfied Allay were authorised to act on behalf of Mrs L.
I will now look to see whether Mrs L asked Allay to stop working for her. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. 
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs L asked Allay to cancel her agreement either within or 
after the 14 day cooling off period. Allays records show they sent emails to Mrs L about her 
PPI claim several times before the call in September 2019. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mrs L asked Allay to stop or question them as to why they were still contacting her. And at 
no point in her call with them did she question why they were still acting for her or any 
indication that she hadnt signed any agreement with them. 
I know Mrs L said she didnt return the documents sent to her by Allay but its not enough 
that she simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling Allay she didnt want them 
to act on her behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted her PPI 
claim to lender N and the claim was successful.
The agreement Mrs L had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mrs Ls claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And her claim with lender N was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mrs L agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mrs L could have cancelled her claim with Allay. But I cant see she 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by her to act on her behalf and her claim was successful. This means Allay can charge their 
fee for the successful claim she had with lender N. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman