DRN-3976528
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Clear Score Technology Limited is displaying information about 
his bank and his address.  
What happened
Background
Clear Score isnt a credit reference agency (CRA). Instead, it provides whats known as 
credit information services (and some other regulated activities). Unlike a CRA, no financial 
businesses or other relevant third parties report data to Clear Score. Nor do other 
businesses use data held by Clear Score to assess an individuals creditworthiness. Instead, 
Clear Score offers (amongst other things) consumers the ability to see what is being 
reported by a CRA without paying any fee.
Mr Hs complaint
Mr H signed up to use Clear Scores credit information services. Hes explained that hes 
experiencing recurring problems with how Clear Score displays information. Hes highlighted 
that the name of his bank is incorrect and that his address shows incorrectly. 
In its final response, Clear Score explained that it is unable to amend information on Mr Hs 
credit report because the data comes directly from a CRA. It explained that Mr Hs bank 
needs to contact the CRA to amend the information for it to be updated within Clear Scores 
service. Clear Score had taken steps to try and fix the problem with how it displays Mr Hs 
address, however that fix was not permanent. Clear Score acknowledged it had a bug in its 
system but pointed out it was not affecting Mr Hs credit score, report, or creditworthiness.
Mr H referred the complaint to us. He said he should not need to continually contact Clear 
Score to correct his data and then have no guarantee that the changes made will be 
retained. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Clear Score had made any error in 
the way it displayed information about Mr Hs bank. But he thought Clear Score had caused 
Mr H inconvenience in relation to the matter hes raised about how his address is shown. He 
pointed out that Mr H has needed to contact Clear Score on multiple occasions to let them 
know the fix hasnt worked and this issue remains. He recommended that Clear Score 
should pay £100 compensation to acknowledge this and to keep Mr H updated on a 
permanent fix. 
Mr H didnt fully agree with everything our Investigator said. In summary, he said the data on 
his credit report needed to be accurate and it was not clear that an offer of compensation 
was going to cure the underlying problems. He pointed out that the data about his bank was 
still inaccurate and the fix to his address was not stable. He said it was unclear why Clear 
Score had not tried to correct the information about his bank once it was on notice of the 
inaccuracy, suggesting that it should have taken the matter up with the provider of the 
information feed. He said he cant know for certain if this incorrect data has impacted him 
financially, but as long as the information remains incorrect, there remains a possibility that 
he could be disadvantaged. He asked us to consider whether Clear Score had broken data 
protection laws by failing to report accurate and up to date information on his file and failing 
to verify the accuracy of the information with his bank. 
Clear Score didnt agree that it should pay compensation. It appreciated that Mr H was 
frustrated with the way his address appeared, but maintained it doesnt affect his credit score 
or his ability to benefit from Clear Score and its services. It said the reoccurrence of the 
issue was because it was technically complex to resolve. It explained it had already explored 
and tested multiple attempts to fix the issue, but each attempt requires configuring the 
address formats of all of Clear Scores users, which is a big undertaking. 
As the parties could not reach an agreement, the complaint has been referred to me. For 
completeness, I should be clear that these findings only relate to Mr Hs complaint about 
Clear Scores credit information service. The other concerns Mr H has raised about issues 
with Clear Scores account information services are being considered separately. 
My further investigation 
Whilst Ive been investigating this complaint, Ive been in touch with Mr H. I explained that if 
a permanent fix was disproportionate in time and expense to deploy compared to the 
number of end users that it will impact, it would be unlikely that I could fairly and reasonably 
endorse that Clear Score must do something within a set timescale. 
Mr H has recently confirmed that his address is showing correctly at the moment. Hes 
explained that he doesnt know what Clear Score has done to resolve the issue or if the fix 
will be stable because hes not received any further communication from them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In explaining my decision, I think it is helpful to clarify the role of this service. We are an 
informal resolution service and not a financial industry regulator. Thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Also, complaints about the processing of personal data are dealt with by 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This means its not the role of this service to 
instruct financial businesses what processes they should adopt, although we are able to look 
at the impact that any such process has on an individual.
Mr H has complained about two distinct issues hes encountered when using Clear Scores 
credit information service. For ease, I shall address each point in turn. 
The name of Mr Hs bank 
Mr H has explained that Clear Score does not display the correct legal name for his bank. 
But this is not down to Clear Score. Clear Scores credit information service provides Mr H 
with financial data, but it is using data from other sources to do so and is not compiling that 
data itself. This means that Clear Score is only able to display what it receives. 
I realise Mr H has found it very frustrating to try to get this information amended. I can see 
hes been in contact with Clear Score, the CRAs and his bank on numerous occasions to try 
and get the issue resolved and yet it remains outstanding. Theres no question in my mind 
that Mr H has faced an ongoing challenge when disputing data given the number of different 
parties involved. But what Mr H wants, Clear Score cant do, and it has explained that to him. As such, I dont find that the ongoing issue with the name of Mr Hs bank is due to a mistake 
that Clear Score has made.
Mr Hs address 
Clear Score has explained it had a systems issue with the formatting of address data which 
impacted how Mr Hs address appeared in its service. 
Mr H was concerned that this could have an impact on him if he shares this information with 
third parties such as potential lenders at some point in the future. But lenders dont use 
Clear Score to view Mr Hs credit report and so the address information Clear Score displays 
wont be used as part of any application Mr H may wish to make. A potential lender would go 
directly to the CRA of its choice. This means that any problems with Mr Hs Clear Score 
report shouldnt impact any lending decisions. 
Although I dont find that Clear Scores bug has impacted Mr Hs ability to secure further 
credit, I do think the bug has led to additional concern and time spent on Mr Hs part trying to 
get the problem resolved. Mr H first raised the problem in April 2022. He had to follow up in 
May 2022, with a further re-occurrence in June 2022. Mr H then raised the issue again in 
August 2022. Clear Score thought it had fixed the issue in September 2022, but Mr H had to 
contact Clear Score in October 2022 to say it had failed again. Its unclear exactly when 
Clear Score found a stable fix. It didnt continue communicating with Mr H about the issue 
because hed referred his concerns to this service by that point. 
Mr H explained to Clear Score how important it was to him that his personal and financial 
data is correct. Whilst I understand this was a systems issue and the impact of it is modest, 
Im mindful that Mr H has experienced inconvenience when the initial fix failed, and hes 
been put to the trouble of having to follow the matter up with Clear Score when he thought it 
had been resolved. I dont think Clear Scores position that the issue wouldnt impact any 
applications Mr H might make fully takes into account that the bug has caused Mr H some 
inconvenience too. Against this backdrop, I dont think our Investigators recommendation 
that Clear Score should pay Mr H £100 compensation was unfair or unreasonable. The 
situation has led to some frustration for Mr H and has required some reasonable effort on his 
part to sort out. 
I am pleased to hear that Mr Hs address is currently showing correctly in Clear Scores 
service. Should Mr H experience any further issues, hell need to raise a fresh complaint, 
contacting Clear Score in the first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Clear Score Technology 
Limited to pay him £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman