DRN-2836179
The complaint
Mr T complained that Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr T took out two loans with Dot Dot Loans as follows:
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
1 8/11/2019 29/5/2020 6 £500 £165.55
2 6/6/2020 Not paid 6 £350 £101.02
Mr T mainly said that Dot Dot Loans didnt sufficiently check his finances to ensure he would 
be able to repay. He ran into difficulty paying for his borrowing. Mr T said that his debt 
worries and financial difficulty overwhelmed him and impacted on his mental health. As far 
as I know, he still hasnt been able to repay loan 2. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Dot Dot Loans saw anything 
that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our adjudicator 
didnt think that Dot Dot Loans had acted towards Mr T unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way when he had contacted it to discuss his changed circumstances and financial situation. 
Mr T disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In particular, Mr T strongly felt that a full financial review should have been 
carried out by Dot Dot Loans before it agreed to lend to him. If this had been done, he 
believes it would have seen that these loans werent affordable for him. Mr T sent us 
information which includes details from his credit record, credit card statements and 
information about his overdraft and current account in support of what he told us about 
his financial situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Ive come to 
the same overall conclusions as our adjudicator and Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons.  
Dot Dot Loans provided Mr T with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Dot Dot Loans was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr T before providing it. Thats not the same thing 
as saying that it needed to do a full financial review. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ts complaint. I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Dot Dot Loans, at this early stage, Mr T didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Dot Dot Loans to any underlying money 
problems. 
The information Dot Dot Loans had gathered about Mr Ts finances suggested that he was 
well able to afford this borrowing. He had declared income of £1,800 and expenses of £175. 
Although Mr T had said he lived with his parents in their home Dot Dot Loans did some 
independent checks and didnt think the amount Mr T expected to spend looked realistic. So 
it boosted his expenditure figure to allow for Mr T actually needing to spend £828. Even so, it 
still looked like Mr T would have disposable income of £972  so the loan repayments for 
loan 1 appeared to be comfortably affordable for Mr T. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect Dot Dot Loans to have been unduly concerned about at 
this stage. I dont think Dot Dot Loans had any reason to think that Mr Ts use of credit was 
out of control  the extent of his debt didnt appear excessive for someone in his 
circumstances, its checks showed no defaults on his credit record, no accounts subject to 
any payment plans and there were no indicators of insolvency, bankruptcy or any court 
judgements showing on his credit history.
Dot Dot Loans credit checks didnt flag up any other outstanding short term loans. But its 
worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all 
payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders 
credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on 
their own credit file. Its not surprising that additional credit that Mr T told us he had taken out 
in November 2019 didnt necessarily show on Dot Dot Loans credit checks for loan 1. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr T provided or the other information 
Dot Dot Loans recorded, which meant that Dot Dot Loans shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Mr T had declared. I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate in 
these circumstances and enough for Dot Dot Loans to agree to lend. So I dont uphold 
Mr Ts complaint about loan 1.loan 2
I can see that Mr T took out the second loan about a week or so after paying loan 1. But 
I dont think this was enough to make Dot Dot Loans think that Mr T was becoming 
increasingly indebted or struggling with being overstretched financially  especially as he 
borrowed a smaller loan this time and the monthly repayments were going to be less than 
those hed successfully been paying for the last 6 months. 
Dot Dot Loans asked Mr T to update the information he provided about his finances. I think 
its fair to take into account that loan 2 still looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr T. He 
hadnt shown Dot Dot Loans any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his borrowing 
and the figures hed declared, and the information Dot Dot Loans collected, seems to 
support Dot Dot Loans lending decision. It seems Mr T declared income of £2,100 and total 
living expenses of £730. He didnt mention any spending on other credit, but after doing its 
own checks Dot Dot Loans made allowance for him paying out £1,112 in monthly outgoings. 
Even so, this still meant that it looked like Mr T should have around £886 left after making 
his monthly repayment on loan 2.
There wasnt enough in the credit check information that Dot Dot Loans could see that I think 
wouldve made it realise that he couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. Whilst 
Dot Dot Loans saw that his overall indebtedness had gone up, I dont think that was enough 
of a concern at this stage to have prompted a responsible lender to be unduly worried. There 
were no other indications that Mr T was having money problems or that he would find it hard 
to pay this loan in a way that was sustainably affordable for him.  
And I think it was too soon for Dot Dot Loans reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr T was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything that Mr T has told us- 
including what he said and the information he sent us in response to our adjudicators view 
letter. 
I appreciate that Mr T feels that Dot Dot Loans didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve 
done before agreeing to lend to him. And Im very sorry that Mr T has found repaying all his 
borrowing difficult. I accept that in reality Mr Ts financial situation possibly wasnt fully 
reflected either in the information he provided or the other information Dot Dot Loans 
gathered. 
It might be that his full financial position may well have been apparent if further information, 
such as the information Mr T has sent us, had been obtained. But I think Dot Dot Loans was 
entitled to rely on the information Mr T declared at this stage of the lending relationship and, 
based on the information Mr T provided and what Dot Dot Loans saw in its credit checks, it 
reasonably concluded that Mr T could afford the repayments he was signing up to pay. I also 
dont think it had reached the stage where Dot Dot Loans needed to verify what Mr T was 
saying about his expenditure by way of further checks, for instance looking at his bank 
statements. So, I dont think that Dot Dot Loans did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mr T. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that Dot Dot Loans acted in any other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable. I think its fair to say that Dot Dot Loans tried to work with Mr T 
when he contacted it to discuss his payment problems and alerted it to the state of his 
mental health which, as far as I can see, isnt something he had told Dot Dot Loans about 
before (and its not something that I would expect a lender to know about otherwise). So 
I cant say that this is a case where it would be fair and reasonable for me to award any 
redress. I expect Dot Dot Loans to continue to work with Mr T and to treat him positively and 
sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty and he still needs time to 
pay any outstanding balance on his loan. I can see that Dot Dot Loans has already provided 
some useful contact information  if Mr T would like more help to manage his finances or to 
talk to someone about his situation theres more information about how to get free advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mr T but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman