DRN-2214665
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he took from Close Brothers Limited under a conditional sale 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality.    
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. Under 
the agreement he was to pay just under £7,000 for the car, which had been first registered in 
March 2011 and had an odometer reading of 111,000 miles.
Within a few weeks Mr M took the car to the dealership that had supplied it because of an oil 
leak. He has also supplied invoices showing other repairs to the car costing several hundred 
pounds within a few months of the conditional sale agreement. 
Mr M also reported that the car had gone into limp mode and wouldnt change gear. 
Initially, he decided to see if the dealership could resolve the problem, but in December 2019 
raised a complaint with Close Brothers. 
Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The engineer who carried 
out the inspection was unable to replicate the fault with the car going into limp mode or 
identify any reason for it. A diagnostic test indicated evidence of a fuel leak, although there 
were no visible signs. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the engineers conclusions and arranged further checks. He said the 
car was going into limp mode on a regular basis. The further checks revealed evidence of 
leaking gearbox oil and the same error code that had been identified previously; the 
engineer said that might explain why the car was going into limp mode. 
Mr M concluded that the car was unsafe to drive and stopped making the monthly payments 
due under the conditional sale agreement. Close Brothers therefore ended that agreement 
and repossessed the car. Mr M has said that it continues to seek payment of the balance 
due. 
Mr M referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He concluded that the car had not been of satisfactory quality at the time of 
delivery and recommended that Close Brothers end the finance agreement, refund the 
deposit that Mr M had paid under it, with interest, and pay him a further £100 to compensate 
him for the loss of use of the car while it was being repaired. He said too that Close Brothers 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
Close Brothers didnt accept those recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale contract was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means of the quality that a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include, of course, the cars age and mileage and 
price; the car was nearly nine years old when Mr M acquired it, and it had a high mileage. Its 
price was relatively low. 
I note that the independent engineer engaged by Close Brothers was unable to replicate the 
fault that Mr M had reported with the car falling into limp mode. That wasnt however the 
only evidence of that particular fault. Mr Ms own garage thought it might be consistent with a 
fuel leak, an issue that was consistent with the independent engineers own diagnostic test. 
Whatever the underlying issue, however, I accept Mr Ms account that the car routinely 
dropped into limp mode and that this caused him to feel that it might not be safe to drive. 
I note too that Mr M had a number of repairs carried out fairly soon after he acquired the car. 
Whilst it might be expected that a car of this age and mileage would need some work, in my 
view the cumulative effect of the issues Mr M has described was that he could not rely on it 
in any meaningful way. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators conclusion that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr M. I must therefore consider what, if 
anything, Close Brothers ought to do to resolve Mr Ms complaint. In doing that, I note that it 
may have been possible to repair the car so that it was of satisfactory quality. That wasnt 
done, however, and the car was repossessed. 
Putting things right
I note that the investigator recommended that Close Brothers end the conditional sale 
agreement and not seek further payments from Mr M and return the deposit he paid. The 
investigator did not suggest that Close Brothers refund the cost of repairs for which Mr M 
paid or return monthly payments he made. Its arguable that doing so might have been 
appropriate, but Im required to determine Mr Ms complaint on the basis of what I consider 
to be reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In my view the investigators proposed resolution was fair and I dont propose to make a 
different award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Close Brothers Limited should:
agree not to seek any further repayments from Mr M under the conditional sale 
agreement;
refund the deposit paid by Mr M, together with interest from the date of payment to the 
date of the refund at 8% a year simple;
pay Mr M a further £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put; 
and 
remove any adverse information it may have placed on Mr Ms credit file.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman