DRN-4362030
The complaint
Mr N has complained about damage charges applied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
(MHCC) under a hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr N acquired a new car under a hire agreement with MHCC in January 2020 and handed 
the car back in March 2023. The mileage on hand back was around 23,000. Mr N 
complained about damage charges applied by MHCC. MHCC sent a final response and said 
it would charge £1,260 for damage it deemed outside of fair wear and tear. 
The damage charged is in relation to:
Front wing R dent £175
C post R dent £175
Sill panel L dent £175
Front door L dent £175
Front bumper scratched £75
Front wing L scratched £140
Front door R door scratched £140
Quarter panel L scratched £140
Rear alloy wheel R scuffed £65
Mr N referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and said the charges were 
unreasonable. He requested a significant reduction. One of our investigators looked into 
things but thought the charges had been applied fairly. 
Mr N disagreed. He said the rates for repair were not reflective of actual costs. As things 
couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr N, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr N. 
Like our investigator pointed out, Im satisfied the hire agreement sets out Mr N was required 
to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. And that hed be responsible for any 
damage caused or deterioration of the car otherwise than through fair wear and tear. And it 
set out it would use the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. 
So Im satisfied MHCC can charge Mr N for damage thats outside of fair wear and tear. 
Ive first thought about whether the damage was outside of fair wear and tear as per the 
BVRLA guidelines. 
As far as dents go, the BVRLA says dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable 
providing there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface isnt broken. And dents 
on the swage line of any panel arent acceptable. 
And with regards to scratches, the BVRLA says scratches arent acceptable if they cant be 
polished out and primer or bare metal is showing.
MHCC is charging Mr N for four dents. It looks like the dent on the right front wing has 
caused paint damage. I think the dent on the right post is over 15mm and it looks to have 
caused paint damage. I think the left sill panel looks to be dented over 15mm. And I think the 
left front door has a dent over 15mm which has caused paint damage. And there are 
scratches on the door that may not be able to be polished out. So I think these would fall 
outside of fair wear and tear
Theres a scratch on the bumper and two areas of damage on the left front wing that looks 
like they have gone through to the primer. The right front door has damage that has gone 
through to the primer or bare metal. And there are scratches on the quarter panel that I dont 
think can be polished out. So I think these would fall outside of fair wear and tear
The BVRLA guidance says any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
wheel/alloy isnt acceptable. The rear alloy has damage on the spoke, so I think this falls 
outside of fair wear and tear as well. 
Therefore, while I know Mr N will be disappointed, I dont find I have the grounds to say that 
the damages arent outside of fair wear and tear. I appreciate he might think the individual 
areas of damage are relatively minor, but this is why certain firms will use an industry wide 
set of standards such as the BVRLA guidance to define what is fair wear and tear.
I think Mr Ns key complaint is that the charges for the damage are too high. Meaning they 
could be repaired for less. And I can understand why hes disappointed to be charged a 
significant sum of £1,260. What I have to bear in mind though is that MHCC set out in the 
agreement Mr N signed that it would use the BVRLA guidance when assessing the damage. 
The charges are there to compensate MHCC for the cost of rectifying damage, even if it 
didnt decide to do that before selling the vehicle on. So MHCC would lose out if it was to 
repair the damage, or thered likely have been a loss in resale value of the car if it was sold 
without repair. Moreover, Mr N could have arranged repair himself before handing the car 
back. 
Mr N has been charged £175 for each of the dents. £140 for three of the scratches and £75 
for the other. Hes also been charged £65 for the damage on the alloy wheel. While I 
appreciate that cumulatively this is a lot of money, I dont find I have the grounds to say the 
individual charges are unfair. And while Mr N thinks the charges are excessive, theres 
nothing in the agreement or the BVRLA guidance that says MHCC cant charge what it 
would cost a manufacturer garage (for example) to rectify the damage. These charges seem 
to be in line with that. So while I sympathise, Im not going to direct MHCC to take any 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman