DRN-1534828
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt lend him money, to consolidate existing 
debts and reduce his outgoings, at a time when he was unwell.
What happened
Mr B said that he was seriously unwell for a while, which affected his income. He wanted to 
consolidate five or six credit card debts into one loan, because that would greatly reduce his 
outgoings. But he said Lloyds wouldnt lend him the money. It had suspended payments and 
interest on his credit cards and overdraft.
Lloyds said it had taken steps to help Mr B with his debts. But it couldnt make him the loan 
he wanted, because it just didnt think this would be affordable for him.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds can only lend 
money when its affordable for the borrower. It wouldnt lend if the application didnt meet its 
criteria, even if that loan wouldve reduced Mr Bs outgoings in the short term. Lloyds had 
been through income and expenditure with Mr B, given him breathing space on his accounts 
and recently agreed to a payment holiday. 
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had made a mistake, so he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr B said he was disappointed. He had a broker who was prepared to lend him this money, 
but at a premium. He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed by this, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld 
either, and essentially for the reasons our investigator gave. He was satisfied that Lloyds 
had looked at Mr Bs overall position, and didnt think it would be responsible to lend to him 
in the way he would like. I think the same. 
Mr B says that someone is now prepared to lend him the money he wants to borrow, but at a 
premium. That doesnt change my view on this complaint. 
Our service doesnt usually make lenders give someone a loan, especially if theyve decided 
it wouldnt be responsible to do so. I dont think that we should depart from that usual 
position in this case. 
I'm glad to see that Lloyds has taken some steps to support Mr B. And Im sorry to hear that 
Mr B has been unwell. I hope hes now been able to return to work. But I dont think Lloyds made a mistake here. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr B that Im not 
able to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman