DRN-3072677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has refused 
to pay for repairs under their home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
RSA provides the home emergency cover under Mr and Mrs Vs home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs V made a number of claims to RSA because their central heating wasnt 
working properly. RSAs engineers made several visits to the property. They replaced a 
valve and a fan. They found a split in a magnetic filter which they patched and later 
replaced. Mr V contacted RSA not long after as the boiler still wasnt working properly.
An engineer was sent out again. He reported that the boiler hadnt been installed properly 
and the pipework required attention. RSA said it wasnt liable for those works as the policy 
didnt cover general maintenance or damage caused by faulty workmanship.
When Mr and Mrs V complained, RSA didnt change its decision. But it paid Mr and Mrs V a 
total of £150 compensation (including a £50 contribution from its contractor) for the way the 
claim had been handled.
Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think RSA had treated them unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs V didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular I confirm Ive read the emails from Mr V in connection with this complaint.
RSA is the insurer responsible for home emergency claims under Mr and Mrs Vs policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, I include the engineers for which it is responsible.
Mr and Mrs Vs home emergency policy covers them for temporary repairs to resolve 
emergency situations. An emergency situation is (amongst other things) one which results in 
a home losing its heating. It doesnt cover normal maintenance or repairs which need to be 
carried out periodically such as descaling water pipes. It also doesnt cover any heating 
system not installed or repaired correctly. The policy doesnt cover permanent repairs unless 
they can be completed for a similar cost as a temporary repair.
Ill look at whether RSA handled Mr and Mrs Vs claims in line with the above policy terms.
From looking at the claim notes it seems the engineer was able to ensure that Mr and Mrs V 
had hot water and heating. But he found a number of other faults. He reported:
I found a lot of individual installation faults. flow from the boiler was flowing in reverse 
around the airing cupboard (amended) also the zone valve for the HW isnt fully responding 
to the clock, the boiler hasnt even been used to heat the cylinder as the immersion has 
been running nonstop for ages. it seems as though the flow from the boiler is restricted, 
which could be a result of the spaghetti junction pipework, the pump or an obstruction. I 
would like to return double handed with a pump, kitchen cupboard will need to be removed, 
also need several hours to run some x800, plus inspect all pipework and make adjustments 
where necessary.
RSA didnt authorise any further work. Since Mr and Mrs V had hot water and heating, I 
dont think RSA treated them unfairly in not carrying out any further work as it didnt amount 
to an emergency situation.
Mr and Mrs V disagree that there were installation faults. They say their local authoritys 
building control officer didnt find any faults when he approved their extension. But thats not 
sufficiently strong technical evidence to persuade me that RSAs engineer was wrong in this 
respect.
Mr V also doesnt believe that hes been provided with complete copies of the engineers 
reports and that some things in them were untrue. The reports that Ive seen arent word for 
word the same and there are some inconsistencies around timing. But the substance of the 
reports is consistent in that there were maintenance issues and installation faults. Im not 
convinced theres justification to show that RSA was fraudulently trying to manipulate the 
reports to avoid being liable for further work.
There were some delays in handling this claim and the engineers didnt always keep to their 
appointments. But overall I think the compensation of £150 already provided is sufficient to 
compensate Mr and Mrs V for the trouble and upset caused by this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman