complaint  
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a  
mortgage in 1997. Ms S says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis -sold her the PPI.  
my findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and  
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.  
Having do ne so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis -sold. Ill explain why below.  
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Ms S hasnt given us much detail  
about what happened. And Halifax hasnt been able to send us any evidence from the sale  
showi ng Ms S chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed since the  
sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.  
But what it does mean is that, because of the limited information available, I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Halifax made Ms S think she had to have the  
PPI. So I think its likely it made it clear to Ms S that she had a choice about the PPI, and  
that she chose to take it.  
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms S, so it had to check that it was ri ght for her.  
And, based on what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For  
example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on  
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than s hes told us she wouldve been  
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings or other  
means she had to make her mortgage repayments if she wasnt earning.  
Ms S has said she had life insurance through her employer. But the PPI covered different  
risks to life insurance. And Halifaxs records dont show that there was any life insurance  
attached to the PPI. So I still think the PPI was right for Ms S.  
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Ms S clea r information about the  
PPI. Its possible the information it gave her about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Ms Ss property couldve been  
at risk if shed failed to make her repayments. S o I think she couldve found the protection  
the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  
like the PPI would have been useful for Ms S if something went wrong. It also looks like it  
was affordable. So I don t think better information about the PPI would have put Ms S off  
taking it out.  
DRN-1015967my final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or  
reject my decision before 21 October 2019.  
Alan Millward  
Ombudsman  