DRN-3516645
The complaint
Mr J complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont refund the 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr J was contacted by a company, R, purporting to offer investment services. On
6 August 2019, Mr J attempted to pay them £250 using his credit card. M&S 
blocked the payment and asked him to call. He rang and confirmed that he had his 
card in his possession, and that hed requested the payment. M&S explained it had 
removed the block but hed need to remake the payment.
Following this, Mr J proceeded to pay the following from his M&S debit and credit 
cards. Some of these payments went direct to R. Others went through C first, 
which appears to have been a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant. Mr J has 
explained that he was directed by R to set up an account with C, and that these 
payments then went straight on to R:
Within a couple of months, Mr J realised it was a scam. He reported this to M&S, 
but it wouldnt refund him. It said hed authorised the payments and his dispute 
didnt meet the criteria for a valid claim through either the voluntary chargeback 
scheme, or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Unhappy with this, Mr J referred the matter to our service and our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She didnt think M&S had responded appropriately when it 
flagged the first payment. If it had done so, she thought it would have uncovered 
and prevented the scam. She therefore thought M&S was liable for his loss.
M&S disagreed. It said Mr J had authorised the payments, including calling him to 
confirm he wanted the credit card payment to R to go through. And that he could 
have done more to protect himself. The matter was escalated to me to determine. I 
asked M&S for some further information. As it didnt respond by the deadline I set, 
Im proceeding to consider this complaint.
Date Merchant Card type Amount
07/08/2019 R Debit £250
12/08/2019 C Debit £2,100
16/08/2019 C Credit £735
16/08/2019 C Credit £735
16/08/2019 C Credit -£735
19/08/2019 R Credit £250
20/08/2019 R Credit £250
Total £3,585I issued my provisional decision in May 2022, upholding the complaint but 
proposing different redress to that recommended by the investigator. I invited both 
parties to submit any further evidence or comments. Theyve now responded to 
confirm that they accept my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, and neither has submitted anything 
new, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. For the following reasons, I 
uphold this complaint: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations and general banking terms, M&S is 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So the 
starting position is that Mr J is liable for the payments he made  even though its not 
disputed that he was scammed and tricked into making these.
Mr J says he authorised all but the last two payments. I can see that hes been 
consistent on this point since first submitting his dispute to M&S. Hes also explained 
that he sent R a picture of the front and back of his card, which he was told he needed 
to do to verify his identity. That explains how R could have made these payments 
without his consent. I asked M&S for further information about these payments, such as 
the security steps followed. It hasnt provided anything. So in the absence of evidence 
to the contrary (such as that he was sent an OTP code to his phone to authorise the 
payments), I accept the last two payments were unauthorised.
As the unauthorised transactions were paid for using credit, Mr J isnt liable for them 
unless he gave R consent to take possession of the credit token. And he didnt give R 
consent to use his credit card. He simply thought the picture was part of its security 
procedure to verify him. So I dont consider it fair to hold Mr J liable for these 
transactions.
Even for the authorised payments, there are some situations where we believe that 
bankstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have 
identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment. If they failed to do so, and that failure led to 
a fraudulent loss for their consumer, it may be fair to hold the bank liable.
Here, we know M&S did flag the first attempted scam payment (£250 directly to R) as 
suspicious. But Im not persuaded it took appropriate action in response to the risk it 
identified, which it says was because it was experiencing a high rate of fraud with this 
type of retailer. Despite requiring Mr J to call, all M&S checked was that hed made the 
transaction. Whereas a key feature of these types of scams is that the consumer is 
tricked into making the payment, believing the investment to be genuine. So Im not 
satisfied it was enough to simply check he knew about the payment.If M&S had asked relevant questions of Mr J, I think it likely would have uncovered the 
scam. Hed been told he could double his money in a short space of time, and was 
directed to use remote access software to allow R to control his trading account. It also 
claimed to trade in forex and binary options  but wasnt regulated in the UK, as it was 
required to be for those activities. M&S ought to have recognised these as common 
scam indicators and warned Mr J about this. He wasnt an experienced investor and Ive 
no reason to doubt that he would have heeded a firm warning from his bank about this, 
speaking from a position of knowledge about scams. So, if M&S had responded 
appropriately, Im persuaded he wouldnt have re-made this payment  or the other 
payments that ultimately went to the scammers.
But for M&Ss failure to respond appropriately, it would have been on actual notice that 
Mr J was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. The losses ought to have been 
within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, M&S. So its fair to hold it liable for this.
Ive also considered if Mr J was partly to blame. Initially, I dont think he foresaw the risk 
this was a scam. Rs contact and website made it appear legitimate. But on 
8 August 2019, his request for a £20 withdrawal was denied. He thinks he was either 
testing the ground or trying to withdraw the profit he thought hed made  and cant 
remember why it was declined. I think this ought to have been a warning sign that 
something might be wrong, yet he continued to trade with R. From that point, I therefore 
think he ought to bear some responsibility for the payments he went on to authorise, 
and that his compensation should be reduced accordingly. In the circumstances, I find 
20% to be a fair reduction.
I dont need to consider a chargeback or Section 75 claim as Mr J already isnt liable for 
the unauthorised payments. And but for M&Ss error, he wouldnt have authorised the 
remaining payments  meaning there would have been no payments to recover.
Putting things right
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should refund Mr J the following £3,018, 
constituting the following:
Date Merchant Card type Payment Refund Reasoning
07/08/2019 R Debit £250 £250 No contributory negligence
12/08/2019 C Debit £2,100 £1,680 20% contributory negligence deduction
16/08/2019 C Credit £735 £588 20% contributory negligence deduction
16/08/2019 C Credit £735 - -
16/08/2019 C Credit -£735 - -
19/08/2019 R Credit £250 £250 Unauthorised
20/08/2019 R Credit £250 £250 Unauthorised
Total £3,585 £3,018
For the credit card payments, M&S should rework the account so that any interest 
or charges caused by those payments are refunded. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on an any sums repaid towards the credit card balance arising from those 
payments, from the date they were repaid to the date of settlement (less any tax 
properly deductible);
For the debit card payments, it should add 8% simple interest to those amounts 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman