DRN-3905780
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the contents of a letter she was sent by Nationwide Building 
Society following an incident in her local branch.
What happened
Mrs A visited the branch on 18 March 2022 and had an interaction with a cashier. 
Nationwide then wrote to Mrs A on 28 March 2022, saying that she had raised her voice and 
shouted at the cashier and that her behaviour wasnt acceptable. It asked her to remain calm 
in any future interactions and that it would like to keep an amicable banking relationship with 
her going forward. It said that the details of the letter would be retained by its member 
service team and an alert added to Mrs As profile, which would be visible to its member-
facing staff for up to six months.
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide had acted reasonably in the circumstances. Mrs 
A disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Ombudsman was established to be an informal service. This doesnt mean we apply 
any less rigour or care in reaching decisions. However, it does mean that we might not 
address each and every point in our decisions. Therefore, although Mrs A has raised some 
wider issues and queries, I intend to limit my response to the main matter at hand, which is 
whether or not Nationwides letter of 28 March 2022 was a reasonable response to what 
happened in branch ten days earlier.
This is a difficult complaint to deal with. Its not possible for me to know exactly what 
happened during the interaction between Mrs A and the cashier. And Nationwides version of 
events differs somewhat from Mrs As. So Ive based my decision on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened.
Mrs A says that she attempted to withdraw £100 from an inside cash machine but that the 
money wasnt dispensed. She then spoke to a staff member at reception who rectified the 
transaction. Mrs A was told she could use the outside cash machine to get the money but 
she said she would prefer to go to the cashier. Mrs A says that she was seen by a young 
trainee who, having asked her full name and a number of security questions, proceeded to 
repeat the same questions again. Mrs A says she had answered about six different 
questions at this point, which was different to her usual experience when asking for cash. 
When Mrs A asked how many more questions shed need to answer, the cashier replied: I 
dont want anyone to steal your money, do you?, which Mrs A says make her feel as if she 
was being spoken to like a fool or a child. She also says that the cashier was giggling.
Nationwide says that Mrs A was asking for a mini-statement. This wasnt available from the 
counter and so she was offered a full statement. Whilst being asked security questions, Mrs 
A started to shout at the cashier about why she was being interrogated. 
Although there are some differences in the above statements, there are also some 
similarities. I can understand how the same event has been perceived differently from the 
two different standpoints.
Nationwide has provided evidence that Mrs A did make a cash withdrawal on that day. But 
its possible that she also asked for a statement.
Mrs A says she was frustrated by the repetitive questioning and accepts that she may have 
raised her voice, although she denies shouting. She says that she was very angry when she 
left the bank. 
Theres been some misunderstanding about a witness statement made by another member 
of staff. Mrs A has taken this to mean that it is being inaccurately reported that she spoke to 
or shouted at another person, when she says she only dealt with the receptionist and then 
the cashier. However, that is not the case. There was a staff member at another till who 
overheard the interaction between the cashier and Mrs A and so her witness statement is 
about that, not about Mrs A speaking to her directly. She reported that Mrs A was being 
extremely argumentative about why she was being asked so many security questions and 
that she was so loud that the staff member had trouble hearing the customer that she was 
serving.
CCTV is not available for the date in question as it is only kept for 30 days. Mrs A says that 
Nationwide puts a lot of value on the importance of security and so questions why the CCTV 
was deleted. But the issue here is not one of security, its about a complaint. Security issues 
would generally come to light almost immediately and so I dont see any significance in 
Nationwide carrying out its routine deletion schedule. Especially as, not containing audio, it 
would have been unlikely to help in this situation. 
Whilst Mrs A believes that there was nothing wrong with her behaviour, the cashier was 
upset by it and so made a report. Its not for me to say that the cashier shouldnt have upset. 
What I need to consider is if Nationwides actions in response were fair and reasonable.
Nationwide quite rightly wishes to protect its staff from being shouted at. It had corroborating 
information from another staff member and so wrote to Mrs A to say that such behaviour 
wouldnt be tolerated. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that this was a 
reasonable and proportionate response to the event that occurred.
I understand that Mrs A would be upset to receive such a letter when she felt that she hadnt 
done anything too wrong. However, I cant agree that the letter brands her as a vicious, 
criminal person. It merely highlights that she is reported to have shouted at the cashier and 
asks her to conduct herself differently in future.
Mrs A is particularly upset that an alert was added to her profile which could be seen by any 
member of staff that she had future face-to-face dealing with. Again, I can understand why 
she would find that upsetting. But as the alert was only being placed on her profile for six 
months and would be removed if there were no further incidents, I consider that to be a 
proportionate response by Nationwide to what happened. 
Mrs A feels she has been discriminated again. However, Ive no reason to conclude that any 
other person who reportedly raised their voice at a cashier would not also receive the type of 
letter that Mrs A was sent.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman