DRN-3370667
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the delays caused by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) in transferring his stocks and shares ISA account to another platform provider.
What happened
Mr C held a stocks and shares ISA and a general investment account with Fidelity. He 
wanted to move the accounts to another platform provider which I shall refer to as B in my 
decision. 
After completing the relevant form, the process for the transfer of the ten investments and 
cash held within the ISA account started in June 2020 but the ISA transfer didnt complete 
fully until December 2020. 
During the transfer process Mr C raised a complaint with Fidelity in September 2020 about 
the delays. In its response Fidelity said:
It gave details of the transfer process and what had happened including the delays 
that had been caused. 
Three of the investments were sold and the proceeds plus the additional cash held 
within the ISA were paid to B on 8 September 2020. The majority of the in-specie 
investments were also transferred around this time.
It acknowledged it should have dealt with two parts of the process more quickly  a 
one month delay in using correct information given to it by B about Mr Cs National 
Insurance number and a two month delay in not chasing one of the fund managers to 
action the transfer of the underlying investment.
It offered £50 for the one-month delay and £100 for the two-month delay.
It didnt have any record of a complaint brought by B which Mr C said had been 
raised on 2 September 2020. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service. His complaint points:
Fidelity failed to action requests for the transfer.
Delayed every step. 
Ignored repeated requests by B to carry out transfers.
Ignored an intra-firm complaint from B.
Ignored Mr Cs complaint.
Failed to comply with its own complaint procedures.
Our investigator who considered the complaint said:
They detailed the timeline of the ISA transfer (which I go into in further detail later).
Clarified the points they couldnt consider  the complaint handling issue which isnt 
something this service has jurisdiction to consider, an additional complaint about 
book costs as it was still being considered by Fidelity and would be investigated as a 
separate complaint if necessary and Mrs Cs complaint (which was brought jointly 
with Mr Cs) as it was also being dealt with separately.
Gave details of the offer made by Fidelity which had been increased from £150 to 
£200. 
Concluded that the delays caused by Fidelity were unreasonable but went onto 
consider what the impact to Mr C was because of this.
They acknowledged Mr C had suffered from the stressful situation and 
understandably it caused him considerable distress and inconvenience, but thought 
the offer made by Fidelity was fair.
Mr C hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of the two-month delay during 
which Fidelity hadnt responded to B and Bs chasers in a reasonable time. If the 
three investments which had been sold had been sold at an earlier date  by one or 
two months earlier  then the value realised would have been lower. And for the 
reinvestment of the cash raised, the investigator noted the investments werent made 
immediately but around eight/nine weeks after the transfer of that cash. 
In conclusion, the offer was reasonable bearing in mind there was no financial loss. 
Seven of the funds were transferred in-specie so remained invested in the market 
throughout and the prices of the other three investments had risen by the time the 
sales were made.
In response Mr C said:
The offer of £200 was derisory.
He wanted a record of the appalling way in which his life savings were withheld for 
months.
He wasnt sure if he could accept Fidelitys argument that there was no great harm 
done because he was never out of the market. 
The delays kept him in a market he didnt want to be in, hence the transfer instruction 
in the first place. He was denied a choice. 
He had many sleepless nights worrying that his money had disappeared, and Fidelity 
didnt communicate with him.
He wanted a proper apology and some respectful compensation. He thought an 
amount above £4,000 would be fair.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I think what Fidelity has offered for the delays, and bearing in mind the impact 
that has had on Mr C, is fair. I wont be asking it to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
From the information I have received, below is a timeline of some of the main events of the 
transfer: 
Mr C signed a transfer authority form for his ISA account (ending number 0703) and 
his general investment account on 22 May 2020. B wrote to Fidelity on 9 June 2020 with the authority from Mr C and requested an in-
specie transfer. At that time, it requested a valuation of the investments which were 
to be transferred. 
Fidelity wrote to B on 23 June 2020 about the ISA account. It said it was unable to 
process the transfer request as the National Insurance number provided did not 
match its own records. 
B emailed Mr C on 30 June 2020 who confirmed his correct National Insurance 
number on the same day, and which was passed onto Fidelity on 6 July.
Fidelity amended its records for Mr Cs National Insurance number on 11 August. 
Fidelity sent the valuation of the ISA account investments to B on 13 August.  
Fidelity didnt give a reason why, but it said it re-sent a valuation of Mr Cs ISA to B 
on 23 August. B messaged Fidelity its instruction to transfer seven of the investments 
in-specie and with a letter attached dated 27 August requesting that three of the 
investments be sold and cash be transferred as B couldnt hold those three 
investments within its nominee account. 
For the seven transfers to made in-specie, stock transfer forms (which enable the 
transfer from one party to another) were sent to the underlying investment fund 
managers.  
The sales for the three investments held within the ISA account to be sold took place 
on 3 September 2020 and raised a total of £194,820.79. Four of the in-specie 
investments were also priced and transferred. 
The sale proceeds from the three sales plus cash on account of £1,138.13, totalling 
£195,958.92 was transferred to B on 8 September 2020. 
On 10 September one of the outstanding investments was transferred in-specie and 
another on 28 October.
On 16 September 2020 Mr C sent a formal complaint to Fidelity.
There were further delays (which I detail below) between 29 October and 24 
December for the final transfer to complete. 
The delays in transferring the ISA
HMRC guidelines are that non-cash ISA transfers, like Mr Cs, should take place within 30 
calendar days. Fidelity received the transfer request on 9 June so ideally, the transfer should 
have completed by 9 July and clearly this did not happen here. 
I think there are two main significant and identifiable delays when things didnt happen as 
they should have done, and Fidelity could have done more to speed up the transfer. 
The first is in relation to the incorrect National Insurance number. As already outlined 
above, after receiving the correct number from Mr C, B passed this onto Fidelity on 6 
July. Fidelity has told us it was chased by B on the 9, 14 and 22 July about the 
transfer. But Fidelity didnt reply until 23 July when it said again it needed the correct 
National Insurance number. When this was challenged by B, as it had already given this on 6 July, Fidelity amended its records on 11 August with the correct number. 
Fidelity is not responsible for being given the incorrect National Insurance number by 
B which caused a delay in the transfer process prior to it receiving the correct 
National Insurance number on 6 July. But it didnt amend its own records until 11 
August. This caused a five-week delay  between 6 July and 11 August  at the 
outset of the transfer. Fidelity has acknowledged that it should have dealt with this 
issue nearer to when it was contacted by B with the correct number on 6 July.
The second of the significant delays surrounds the in-specie transfers. Seven of the 
investments were to be transferred in-specie, meaning they would remain intact and 
transferred in their then current form, thus remaining invested in the stock market 
during the transfer process. 
Four were transferred in a timely manner (after the initial delays) but three of those 
investments had to be transferred manually  as referred to by Fidelity  which took 
longer. One transferred on 10 September but the other two were further delayed. Of 
those transfers Fidelity told us the following:
- For one of the investments the stock transfer form  which was necessary 
for the transfer  was sent to the underlying fund manager on 9 
September 2020 and the transfer didnt complete until around seven 
weeks later.  
- For another, Fidelity generated and sent the stock transfer form 
(sometime between receiving Bs acceptance of the transfer on 28 August 
and when the first in-specie holding was received on 3 September) but 
said it didnt chase the underlying fund manager about the transfer until 
29 October 2020 at which point it was told by the fund manager that it 
hadnt received the necessary stock transfer form. It was re-sent on 2 
November 2020. It then received a letter from the fund manager on 11 
November as Bs identifying account number was wrong. It was asked by 
B to use a different account number and it re-sent a further stock transfer 
form on 26 November. The transfer completed on 24 December 2020. 
- Fidelity has acknowledged that it didnt chase the underlying fund 
manager  as it should have done  until 29 October after it sent the stock 
transfer form around 3 September. And when re-sending the stock 
transfer form on 2 November, Bs identifying account number was wrong 
and B provided a different number. Clearly this caused a delay of two 
months initially when Fidelity didnt chase the underlying fund manager, 
which is Fidelitys error, and a further two weeks after it was told about the 
incorrect account number. Its not clear whether the additional two-week 
delay was caused by Fidelity, but it seems likely it used the identifying 
account number it was provided, and which later had to be corrected. But 
it was Fidelitys error of not chasing the transfer in the first instance that 
caused the majority of the delay. 
The impact of the delays on Mr C
Mr C was undoubtedly inconvenienced by the delays. He has said it was a stressful time for 
him and I appreciate the points he has made. He said he would like a proper apology and 
thinks compensation for his complaint should be in the region of £4,000 which he says would 
equate to £100 a week.Mr C was clearly very frustrated by the delays and having to make contact with Fidelity to 
chase for the progress of his ISA transfer. Mr C explained that the investments represented 
most of his life savings and he had no control over them during this time or could be sure 
that they were secure, particularly during the pandemic. 
But its not the role of this service to fine or punish businesses. That is the role of the 
regulator. Our awards for distress and inconvenience arent punitive to the business. But its 
evident Mr C did experience more levels of frustration than he might reasonably expect from 
a relationship with a business and it took effort for him to resolve the matter. 
Is the offer fair?
Ive considered Mr Cs points and I am aware he feels strongly about this issue. But I have 
also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress caused. Clearly it must 
have been worrying for Mr C not being sure what was happening with the transfer, but Ive 
also considered that once the transfer process started after the initial delay, the majority of 
the investments were transferred quite quickly. Taking all of this into account, I think £200 is 
fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Did Mr C suffer an actual financial loss?
Mr C has said he wasnt sure if he could accept Fidelitys argument that there was no great 
harm done because he was never out of the market. He was denied a choice as caused by 
the delays. 
I should first say that I am satisfied that Mr Cs investments didnt disappear, and they were 
secure throughout the transfer process, albeit I realise how worrying this would have been to 
Mr C. But it wouldnt be possible to transfer from one product provider to another without 
agreement between the two parties about a trade and settlement date of the investments 
and Fidelity has given us evidence of this. So, Im satisfied those investments remained in 
place. 
Mr C has said the delays kept him in a market he didnt want to be in, hence the transfer 
instruction in order for him to take action. He says he was denied a choice. Clearly, I cant 
know for sure what action Mr C would have taken if the transfer had completed in a shorter 
time. But Mr C hasnt told us of any immediate switch out of his investments after the 
transfer was complete which suggests there wasnt any urgent need to make sales and/or 
reinvestments. 
And if Mr C did want to be out of the market, he could have instructed Fidelity to make the 
sales and just transfer the resulting cash. But I do recognise that Mr C wouldnt have 
anticipated the delays that did occur, and which may have changed his mind if he had 
known. 
But I cant make an award for an actual financial loss unless it has been incurred and there 
is no evidence of one. Fidelity has provided valuations of the prices Mr C could have 
obtained on the three holdings that were sold if he had been able to sell at an earlier date 
than 3 September. And those valuations show that Mr C was better off because of the 
delays. The proceeds were higher than he would have obtained if hed sold in July or 
August. And for the reinvestment of those funds I note this wasnt done until eight/nine weeks after 
the transfer of the cash. I acknowledge Mr Cs comments about feeling that he didnt have a 
choice about what to do. And Ive taken this into account when thinking about fair 
compensation for the distress he was caused. But, fortunately, it turns out that remaining 
invested hasnt caused him to be any worse off financially across his portfolio. 
In conclusion, of the ten investments:
after the five-week delay because of the National Insurance number error between 6 
July and 11 August (and which Fidelity has acknowledged), three of the investments 
were sold as instructed just over three weeks later on 3 September and 
four of the in-specie investments transferred on the same day, so seven of the ten 
investments. 
The proceeds from the sale of the three investments plus the cash held within the 
ISA were transferred on 8 September. 
The other two manual in-specie transfers completed on 10 September and 28 
October. 
The final transfer was made on 24 December and again Fidelity has acknowledged 
this delay with its current offer. 
The fact that there were unreasonable delays is not in dispute  Fidelity has acknowledged 
this, but Im not convinced that Mr C suffered an actual financial loss as a result as theres 
no evidence to suggest this. 
So, this leaves me to consider the distress and inconvenience offer and bearing in mind 
what I have said about, Im of the opinion that what Fidelity has offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. It is now for Mr C to decide whether to 
accept that offer. 
Fidelity has told us it is very sorry for the delays Mr C experienced and I pass that apology 
on to him. 
Mr C has said that B made an intra-firm complaint to Fidelity on 2 September 2020 on behalf 
of several customers. I cant comment on this as this is an issue between the two 
businesses and is not something that I can consider.
If Mr C does wish to accept the offer, Fidelity has asked that he please provide his bank 
details via this service or contact Fidelity by letter (which should be signed and include his 
full name and address). Alternatively, he can make contact with Fidelity via Secure Message 
or call the complaints team and clear phone security. Fidelity has advised that Mr C should 
include his complaint reference so that the payment is made without delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. It is for Mr C to decide 
whether to accept the offer made by Fidelity Administration Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman