DRN-3266268
The complaint
Mrs O, as executor of the late Mrs Cs estate, has raised a complaint about the lifetime 
mortgage that the late Mrs C held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
The lifetime mortgage was taken out in 2004/2005 by Mr and Mrs C. The recommendation 
letter from October 2004 stated they wanted to borrow £73,500 in order to buy the freehold 
of their property and gift the rest to their children to buy a property abroad.
A valuation of their property was carried out which didnt come in at as high a value as 
Mr and Mrs C had anticipated, so the loan amount was reduced to £67,200. The lifetime 
mortgage completed in March 2005.
It appears from Avivas notes that Mr C enquired about whether they could get a lower 
interest rate in 2008 as rates for new lifetime mortgages were lower at that time. Mr C was 
told they would incur an early repayment charge (ERC) on this mortgage if they either 
switched to a new rate with Aviva, or took out a new lifetime mortgage with a different 
provider.
In 2012 Mr C wrote to Aviva about the interest rate. He said he felt the rate was high 
compared to what was currently available. Aviva said that the rate was part of the contract, 
and so there was no flexibility to change it.
In 2015 it seems there was a further enquiry about getting either a better interest rate, or 
repaying the mortgage.
Mr C then complained to Aviva about the mortgage in March 2018. It issued a final response 
letter on 30 April 2018 and closed with an explanation that Mr and Mrs C had six months 
from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to us. If they didnt do so, and there were no 
exceptional circumstances, Aviva said that it wouldnt consent to us looking at it.
Following the passing of Mr C in August 2020 and Mrs C in February 2021, a complaint was 
raised by Mrs O  their daughter  in April 2021.
Aviva responded in May 2021 saying that it had already responded to most of the points 
raised in 2018, and dealing with the two new points; that is, about Mrs Cs mental health at 
the time of the sale, and that the beneficiaries hadnt been involved in the sale of the lifetime 
mortgage.
When the complaint was referred to us, Aviva said that we cant consider all of it as the 
issues raised in 2018 were referred to us more than six months after that final response 
letter. 
An investigator looked at the case and agreed that the 2018 issues were referred to us too 
late and so we didnt have the power to consider those. He then looked at the other two 
points and didnt uphold the complaint about those.
Initially Mrs O accepted what our investigator had said about our jurisdiction, but after our 
investigator issued his findings about the two new points she sent us an email from her sister 
asking that all elements be considered by an ombudsman. 
Earlier this month I issued a decision which said the 2018 complaint had been brought to us 
too late and so we could only consider the following two points that had been raised in 2021:
Mrs Cs mental health at the time of the sale, and 
the beneficiaries hadnt been involved in the sale of the lifetime mortgage.
As our investigator had already looked at those points and issued his findings on them, I now 
issue my decision about those points
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to consider the complaint as it related to Mr and Mrs C as they were Avivas 
customers. I have no power to consider things from their beneficiaries point of view. 
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage, or for borrowers to regret the 
erosion of the equity in their properties. Precisely because of this, even before mortgage 
regulation came into effect on 31 October 2004, the sales process for these products has 
always been very robust, with borrowers required to take advice from a solicitor, as well as a 
financial advisor.
Its impossible for us now to establish everything that was discussed between Mr and Mrs C 
and the adviser at the time about Mrs Cs mental health. Due to the passage of time, it can 
be difficult in such complaints to be certain of exactly what was discussed and agreed at the 
time. In such instances we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed.
The fact find indicates Mr and Mrs C were asked about their health, and they both said they 
were in good health. Theres nothing to indicate that Mrs C lacked the capacity to agree to 
take out this lifetime mortgage with Mr C so it would be completely wrong of me to now say, 
so many years later, that she shouldnt have been allowed to.
I also note that Mr and Mrs C had independent advice from their own solicitor before they 
took out the lifetime mortgage. If the solicitor had thought Mrs C wasnt able to understand 
the nature of the transaction she was entering into, the solicitor had a duty to inform the 
lender. The solicitor would have been best placed to make the judgement call as to whether 
Mrs C had the capacity to enter into this contract, and as they had no concerns then I cant 
say Aviva did anything wrong in also thinking the same.
It was not for Aviva to check that Mr and Mrs C had truly spoken to their children about this 
lifetime mortgage, nor was it Avivas duty to involve the children in the sales process. There 
was a question on the fact find about whether there was anyone Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
benefit from their property on death and if so what their intentions were regarding discussing 
the mortgage with them. The fact find indicates Mr and Mrs C said theyd already discussed 
it with their potential beneficiaries. It also notes that the majority of the funds were to be 
gifted to Mr and Mrs Cs children to buy a property abroad. On the application form that Mr and Mrs C signed to apply for the lifetime mortgage the 
option I have discussed my plans with my family was ticked, and the form again states that 
the purpose of the loan is for Mr and Mrs C to buy a property abroad with their children.
Its not uncommon for parents to want to keep their finances private from their children. Im 
sure Mrs O can see how many complaints would be made if a business refused to deal with 
an adult who is capable of making their own decisions, unless their child was notified; Im 
sure most people would see how inappropriate and intrusive that would be. If Mr and Mrs C 
decided not to discuss their plans with any or all their children, that was entirely their 
decision to make, it was their house and their equity after all.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Aviva didnt know about Mrs Cs mental health 
concerns and would have no reason to believe she lacked the capacity to enter into this 
lifetime mortgage with Mr C. Im also satisfied that Aviva had no duty to notify or consult 
Mr and Mrs Cs children about their application.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs Cs children were in, losing 
both their parents in a short space of time and then discovering how much they owed under 
this lifetime mortgage, I simply cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman