DRN-2713311
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Amtrust Europe Limiteds claim handling agent handled 
his claim under his car cosmetic repair insurance policy. 
For the sake of ease, Ive referred to Amtrust throughout this decision, even when Im 
referring to their handling agent.  
What happened
Mr K put in a claim under his policy as he wanted Amtrust to repair a scratch on his car. He 
told Amtrust he would meet the repairer at a car park. When the repairer arrived he refused 
to enter the car park and carry out the repair. Mr K complained to Amtrust. They didnt 
uphold his complaint. They quoted the policy term that said he had to provide a safe place 
for his car to be repaired. And they said in their opinion the car park wasnt suitable. Amtrust 
offered Mr K the option of taking the car to the dealership he bought the car from around 50 
miles from his home to be repaired. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Amtrusts response and complained to us. He said that he didnt 
think his policy was fit for purpose, as he didnt have access to a driveway and it seemed 
Amtrust werent willing to repair his car in a car park or on the road. He suggested he should 
get a full refund of premium. 
One of our investigators said she felt Amtrusts offer to repair the car at the dealership was 
reasonable. And she suggested a cash in lieu of repairs payment as an alternative. But she 
didnt think Mr K should get a full refund of premium. 
Amtrust agreed to the additional option of a cash in lieu payment of what it would have to 
pay for the repair at the dealership. Mr K still felt he should get a full refund of premium and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I looked at Mr Ks complaint and agreed his policy wasnt really fit for purpose, so far as his 
situation was concerned. So, I emailed Amtrust and said I thought the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Ks complaint was for them to cancel his policy and refund the full premium. 
Mr K confirmed he agreed with this outcome. Amtrust havent replied by the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the approach adopted by the repairer Amtrust 
appointed was reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont think Amtrusts view on what is 
required of Mr K to enable a repair to his car is realistic or reasonable.
Ive checked the cost of the car park Mr Ks car was parked in and it seems it would have 
cost the repairer £2 to access it. He reported the car park was busy, but Mr K has
explained the repairer didnt even go in to check whether there was space to repair his car. 
Mr K has explained there was plenty of space. And  having spoken to him  I accept his 
testimony that the repairer didnt check and that there was enough space. It seems the 
repairer was concerned about the cost of entering the car park, when I think it would have 
been reasonable for them to cover this small cost.
Mr K has pointed out that when he took out the policy he was never asked where he
parked his car and whether he had access to a safe place for it to be repaired. And what is a 
safe place isn't defined in the policy. So, if  as it seems - Amtrust arent willing to authorise 
repairs in a public car park or on a street, this leaves Mr K with little chance of making a 
successful claim under the policy without taking the car to a dealership nearly 50 miles from 
his home. Or having to arrange the repair locally himself without Amtrust covering the full 
amount it is likely to cost him. 
It seems Amtrust also suggested he could use someone elses drive or a petrol station 
forecourt. But, I dont think these are reasonable suggestions. I think its unreasonable to 
expect a policyholder to have a friend or family member with a drive he can borrow. And I 
dont think it is appropriate for individuals to have their car repaired on petrol station 
forecourts. Neither do I think the option of repair at a dealership nearly 50 miles from Mr Ks 
home is a reasonable alternative, as it defeats the object of the policy, which is for quick and 
easy repair of minor dents and scratches. Amtrust only offered the option of a cash in lieu 
payment once we became involved, but even this was limited to what it would cost them for 
repair at the dealership. And  in any event  it involves inconvenience for Mr K. And he 
would then have responsibility if anything went wrong. So I dont think this is a reasonable 
option either. 
In the circumstances, it does seem the policy Mr K hasnt isnt really fit for purpose, so far as 
his particular situation is concerned. I say this as he is very unlikely to ever be able to 
successfully arrange for his car to be repaired within a reasonable distance of his home and 
without considerable inconvenience and some cost to him. When the reason he bought the 
policy was for access to quick and easy repairs to minor dents and scratches.  
Putting things right
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks complaint is for Amtrust to refund the 
full premium he paid for the cosmetic repair insurance policy. I understand this was around 
£459 and the cover lasted 3 years. This refund will be on the basis that the policy is 
cancelled and Mr K will never be able to claim on it. And it is also on the understanding he 
hasnt made a successful claim against it to date. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and I require Amtrust 
Europe Limited to refund the full premium Mr K paid for his cosmetic repair insurance policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman