DRN-2807431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaints about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 to protect Mr and 
Mrs Cs monthly mortgage payments if Mr C couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in April 2021 and asked the parties to 
send me any further information before I reconsidered the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond. Santander replied to say it didnt agree with my provisional 
findings. The complaint was passed to me to reconsider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the policy terms that Santander says applied to the sale 
set out whos eligible to benefit under the policy. The requirements included that those 
insured were in continuous Employment for the past 3 months at the Start Date. The 
term Start Date was defined in the policy as:
When You are applying for a new Agreement, Cover will start on the date of 
exchange of contracts 
On balance, I think it more likely than not that Mr C hadnt been in continuous employment 
for three months when Mr and Mrs C exchanged contracts on their property, meaning he 
wasnt eligible for the policy. My reasoning is as follows.
The screen shots Santanders provided show the mortgage funds were released on 
16 May 1997. Presumably, thats the day Mr and Mrs Cs property purchase was completed. 
If theirs was a typical sale (and Ive no reason to believe otherwise), its likely they 
exchanged contracts between one and two weeks prior to completion, so somewhere 
between 2 and 9 May 1997. 
However, Mr and Mrs C have provided evidence, including a copy P45, showing Mr C 
ceased to be employed from 2 May 1997. They say he didnt find work again until around 
July 1997 at the earliest. If thats the case  and Ive no reason to doubt it is  it seems likely 
Mr C wasnt employed when contracts were exchanged.
In its response to my provisional decision, Santander says Mr and Mrs C applied for the 
policy in April 1997 and would have met the relevant eligibility requirement at the time. It 
emphasises that Mr and Mrs C contacted the policy administrators in August 1997 to 
arrange for the policy to start that month.
If anything, the above further leads me to believe that the relevant policy terms werent made 
clear to Mr and Mrs C at the time of sale. If they had been made clear I find it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs C would, just a few months later, have arranged to start a policy for which  by that time 
 Mr C was no longer eligible.  
All of this, in itself, is sufficient reason for me to uphold the complaint. So, I see no need to 
go further and make a finding on any of the other grounds Mr and Mrs C believe their 
complaint should be upheld on.  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to 
put things right for Mr and Mrs C as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman