DRN-4071979
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a dental claim he made on a 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
On 27 September 2022, Mr S made a dental claim on his private medical insurance policy. 
He attached a date-stamped dentists invoice, which he told us was an itemised bill. He said 
that he didnt receive a response from Vitality for over two weeks and was then told that hed 
need to provide an itemised dentists bill.  Mr S responded to say hed already provided 
Vitality with this information. Again, around two weeks later, Vitality reiterated its request for 
an itemised dentists bill. Around the same time, Mr S was told by another team that a 
member of Vitalitys dental team would give him a call back about the matter. But this call 
wasnt forthcoming.
Unhappy with the service hed received from Vitality, Mr S made a complaint. One of 
Vitalitys care team acknowledged the complaint and told Mr S that theyd reviewed the 
invoice hed provided and thought it did appear to have enough information attached.
Vitality went on to issue a final response to Mr S complaint. It said it had sent Mr S an email 
on 29 September 2022 which asked for an itemised invoice and proof of payment. It had 
gone on to chase these requests with Mr S. And it said it had tried to contact Mr S dental 
practice separately to obtain the information it needed, but that it had been unsuccessful due 
to patient confidentiality concerns. However, it told Mr S that on this occasion, it would settle 
his claim based on the evidence hed already provided, in line with the policy limits.
Mr S remained unhappy with Vitalitys response and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
He told us that he hadnt received an email dated 29 September 2022, which had asked for 
more information.
Our investigator asked Vitality for further information about Mr S claim. But despite chase-
ups, he didnt receive the evidence hed asked for. So he reached a view based on the 
evidence he did have. And he didnt think Vitality had handled Mr S claim fairly. He 
recommended that Vitality should pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Mr S accepted the investigators assessment. But Vitality didnt provide a substantive 
response to it. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they must give consumers reasonable guidance to help them to make a claim, along 
with providing appropriate updates on a claims progress. Its common ground that Vitality 
has now settled Mr S dental claim, so the issue I need to decide is whether it handled Mr S 
claim fairly. Having considered the available evidence, I dont think Vitality did handle the 
claim promptly and fairly and Ill explain why.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show they have a valid claim on their policy. The terms of Mr S insurance contract also say 
that if a policyholder has already paid their dental costs, they must provide Vitality with an 
itemised receipt before Vitality will reimburse any eligible costs.
In this case, it seems to be accepted that Mr S did send Vitality a copy of an invoice showing 
the treatment hed received and some proof of payment. Mr S says that the invoice was 
itemised and date-stamped. On the face of things then, Mr S seems to have provided the 
evidence the policy terms indicate Vitality required. Vitalitys notes show that it considered 
the information given on the invoice and accompanying evidence wasnt sufficient to prove 
Mr S claim. But despite requests, it hasnt sent us a copy of the information Mr S submitted 
at the time of the claim. This means I cant reasonably assess whether or not it was fair for 
Vitality to request further information.
Vitality says that it sent Mr S an email on 29 September 2022, which stated that it needed an 
itemised invoice. Mr S says he didnt receive such an email. While Vitalitys notes say that 
Vitality was sending an email to Mr S on that date, no copy of the email has been provided to 
us. Its possible that it was sent and that Mr S simply didnt receive it. But in any event, Ive 
looked at the further emails which were sent to Mr S on 14 October and 1 November 2022. 
These indicate that Vitality needed an itemised bill. But Mr S thought hed already provided 
this information. And I dont think the content of Vitalitys emails sufficiently explained why 
the invoice and evidence Mr S had already sent it werent enough for it to settle the claim. 
Had Vitality provided more guidance at this stage, its possible Mr S couldve sought more 
information from the dentist and the claim couldve been progressed sooner. Mr S would 
also have understood the reasons for the delay in settlement, rather than being put to the 
inconvenience and time of repeating that hed already sent Vitality the evidence he thought it 
needed.
There also seems to be an acknowledgement that Mr S wasnt called-back by the claims 
team, after being told hed receive a call. I dont doubt that this caused Mr S further 
unnecessary frustration. And it seems to me that if Vitality had called Mr S back when it said 
it would, the matter couldve been discussed and potentially resolved at an earlier stage. I 
say that because Mr S may have understood what further information Vitality needed and 
understood the reasons for the delay in settlement.  
I appreciate Vitalitys claims team do appear to have called the dentist to try and get the 
evidence it needed. But this seems to have been after a member of its care team had 
already told Mr S that they thought hed provided enough evidence. On that basis, it seems 
difficult to understand why the claims team still attempted to contact the dentist and didnt 
settle the claim at that point or update Mr S on the progress of the claim. Instead, the claim 
wasnt settled for over two more weeks, causing Mr S to experience a further period of delay.
Overall, while I accept Vitality was reasonably entitled to be satisfied that the claim was 
valid, I find that there were delays in its communications with Mr S and that it didnt provide 
him with enough guidance about why it needed further information and exactly what it 
required. It also failed to call Mr S back when it said it would. I think that these errors are 
likely to have caused Mr S some material frustration and inconvenience. Therefore, I agree 
with our investigator that Vitality must pay Mr S an award of £50 compensation to reflect the 
impact its customer service had on him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman