DRN-1783447
The complaint
Ms F is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for her 
son with a supplier that I will call E. Shes also unhappy with the quality of the support 
provided on the course. 
What happened
In March 2019 one of Es representatives visited Ms F at her home, following which she 
entered her son onto a course, which cost around £4,000. She also entered into a five-year 
finance agreement with 3J to pay for it. She says she was looking for a tutor programme to 
support her sons education because she wasnt able to support her son academically 
because the teaching methods were very different to the way she was taught. She said she 
was interested in the course because she says the salesman said her son would have 
access to tutor support and was specifically told that it would be better for him to contact the 
tutor rather than have support at home.
Ms F said her son initially did well on the course, but as it got more challenging, he looked to 
get support from the tutor. But she says the tutor didnt provide adequate support. She says 
the tutor went over the problem, but she didnt think the explanation was adequate. Ms F 
said her son still didnt understand it. So they called the tutor back and she says the tutor 
explained it the same way, but she wasnt happy with the way the tutor responded. She said 
the tutor was impatient and made her son feel like he should have got it the first time she 
explained it.
Ms F said her son didnt want to contact the tutor anymore after that, so she said she had to 
try and provide the support herself, which went against the reason she entered into the 
course. She then contacted 3J and said she wanted to cancel the course. But 3J said she 
was past the cancellation period. Ms F didnt think this was fair as she says the salesman 
told her she could cancel the course with a months notice. 
I issued a provisional decision in October 2020 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Ms F paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms F entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when she was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Ms F. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process. 
Ms F is complaining that the course and finance was mis-sold to her and also that the quality 
of the course wasnt satisfactory. I shall deal with each point separately.
Sale of the course and finance agreement
Ms F says she thought she was entering into a subscription service with E. And she says 
she didnt realise she was entering into a five year contract. She says she was looking for a 
tutoring service which would provide all the tutoring support her son needed without her 
needing to provide additional support. And she says the purpose of entering her son onto the 
course was for him to study independently. She says E told her there was teaching support 
available to her son whenever he needed it.
In arranging the loan between Ms F and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision. 
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee;
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and 
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must:
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, 
the terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before 
entering into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Ms F purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Ms Fs assumptions about how she was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Ms F.
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 
days have passed.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long- 
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Ms Fs testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what shes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product she ultimately bought. Ive also considered the paperwork she 
signed to understand what she agreed the salesman had told her at the time.Ms F says she was asked to tick a number of boxes on a tablet and it wasnt explained to 
her what each box meant. I can see Ms F electronically signed the finance agreement in two 
parts. Im persuaded by what Ms Fs told us and from what I know about how E typically sold 
the finance that its most likely she ticked separate boxes to electronically sign the 
documents. But Ive also considered the customer clarification & satisfaction form" that 
Ms F signed. In this Ms F signed separately to confirm the following: 
1. She was aware she was paying for the course by way of finance;
2. The lifetime licence will be paid for by 60 monthly instalments totalling £4,050;
3. She was aware E gave her 14 days to cancel from the date of sale;
4. E provides the course, but the finance will be provided by 3J.
Ms F hand signed separately after each of these statements. I also note that Ms F was 
required to sign four documents. She signed three of these electronically  although these 
were all signed at the same time (6:08pm)  but then also hand signed the customer 
clarification & satisfaction form. So, while some of the forms were signed at the same time, I 
think she did have time to read and consider the customer clarification & satisfaction form. I 
dont think its necessarily clear that a consumer would understand that taking out finance 
would be she knew she was taking out a loan as I think paying by finance could mean a 
number of things. But Im also particularly conscious that Ms Fs primary concerns in this 
complaint seem to be about the quality of the course provided. And, taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied that its most likely she was aware she was entering into a finance 
agreement to pay for the course, the total cost of the course and that she had 14 days to 
cancel it.
Ive also thought about Ms Fs comment that the reason she took the course out through E 
was because she was assured her son could work independently by having access to tutors. 
I acknowledge Ms F wasnt happy with the quality of the support her son was given. But Im 
satisfied E did provide tutors her son could call to use. So Im not persuaded the course was 
misrepresented to her in this respect.
Quality of the course
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract with E that it must provide the tutoring service with reasonable care and skill. 
Further to this, the terms of the contract required E to provide a freephone teacher helpline 
for mathematics and English grammar which was to be available for Ms Fs son to use 52 
weeks per year from Monday to Friday between 4pm and 7pm (including some Bank 
holidays) and Saturday between 10am and 1pm.
Ms F says that the first time her son tried to use the helpline, the tutor initially wasnt 
available, so they had to call back. And, when they did, she says the tutor was so unhelpful it 
meant her son no longer wanted to use the course. As a result, she doesnt think the course 
is fit for purpose any longer.
While, I dont dispute Ms F was unhappy with the level of support the helpline gave her son, 
E did provide access to the helpline. Ive thought about the fact that the tutor wasnt 
immediately available when she first called. I can appreciate that this must have been 
frustrating for her, but I dont think its unusual that there might be select times when the tutor 
wont be available  e.g. if theyre helping someone else. And her son was able to speak to 
the tutor shortly afterwards. So I dont think this delay would be considered a breach of 
contract.
I think Ms F is primarily unhappy with the quality of the support the tutor gave her son when 
he called to seek help. She says the tutor just rushed through and told her son what to do and she says her son was made to feel like he should know how to do it. But she said he 
didnt learn anything from the tutor, so he was still unable to answer the problem. So she 
says they called back, but still didnt get any support. As a result of this, her son wont use 
the support service any longer.
There isnt a copy of call recording of the telephone calls Ms Fs son had with the tutor, so 
its not possible to know for certain how the telephone calls were handled  and in particular 
assess the quality of the support that was provided. Ive taken what Ms F has said, but I 
dont think I have enough to say the service wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. I 
recognise Ms Fs son wasnt willing to use the tutoring service any longer, but I dont think I 
can fairly conclude that she didnt receive the service she was entitled to expect after one 
failed instance.
Further to this, Im conscious Ms Fs son did continue to make good use of the course after 
this, successfully completing the modules with high scores. I recognise Ms F says he was 
only able to do this because of the support she gave him. But, ultimately, I dont think I have 
enough to conclude that the tutoring support E provided wasnt carried out with reasonable 
care and skill. So, given I dont think E has breached the terms of its contract with Ms F, it 
follows that I dont think 3J is required to refund the cost of the course or any payments Ms F 
has made.
Ms F didnt accept my provisional decision and, in summary, she raised the following:
1. E has gone into liquidation so she says shes paying for something she cant access any 
longer.
2. She said shed carried out further investigation into this matter and found out a number 
of parents have experienced the exact situation she says shes currently facing.
3. She didnt know she was taking out a loan. She said she wasnt given any paperwork or 
anything to indicate she was entering into a finance agreement. She says she was only 
given an electronic tablet to tick.
4. She maintains the salesman told her she would be making monthly payments and that 
everything was monthly.
5. She said her son only flew through the early stages because they set the levels so low at 
the beginning. She maintained there was no support when her son looked to use the 
tutoring service. And she said he only continued to achieve high scores because of the 
support she gave him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Ms Fs additional comments into account, but ultimately I dont think Ms F has 
provided any significantly new information that she hadnt provided before. So Ive come to 
the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Ms F says E has gone into liquidation so she says shes paying for something she cant 
access any longer. But where the company providing the service has gone out of business, 
the remedy in this situation is for 3J to seek an alternative course provider. I cant see Ms F 
has contacted 3J to make new arrangements. It seems to me Ms F is unable to use the 
course because she chose to stop using it. If she wishes to continue with the program, shell 
need to contact 3J to make arrangements to do so. But I dont think the fact E has gone into 
liquidation means 3J is required to refund the cost of the course or any payments Ms F has 
made.I note Ms F says she has done a lot of research into and found a number of other parents 
have experienced the same situation she found herself in. But I have to think about the 
specific circumstances of Ms Fs complaint. Ive thought about what shes said about the 
sales process. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, it seems to me Ms Fs primary 
concerns in this complaint seem to be about the quality of the course provided. When I 
listened to the telephone call where Ms F initially raised the complaint Ms F, its clear she 
was complaining about the quality of the support on the course and not its sale. Im satisfied 
my provisional decision sets out why I dont think the course and finance was mis-sold to 
Ms F in the specific circumstances of this complaint. And I dont think Ms F has given me 
anything new to make me come to a different conclusion.
Finally Ive thought about her comment about the level of support her son received. But I 
explained in detail in my provisional decision about why I dont think Ive seen enough to say 
the course and support wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. And Ms F hasnt 
provided anything new for me to consider in respect to this. So I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman