DRN-4436238
The complaint
Mr E complained that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) made errors causing a delay in him 
receiving his pension. He would like compensation for any financial loss he has suffered as a 
result, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience that these errors have caused 
him
What happened
Mr E held a pension policy with Phoenix which contained benefits transferred from his 
occupational pension scheme, with a scheduled retirement date (SRD) of 22 November 
2022, his 65th birthday. He contacted Phoenix Life on a number of occasions since his 55th 
birthday, as he was keen to take his retirement benefits early if possible. Phoenix Life 
explained that it was unable to allow early access to his pension, as he had a Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP) entitlement of c£9,000. The value of his plan wasnt high enough 
to provide this level of GMP until his 65th birthday. On 27 May 2022, around 6 months before 
his SRD, Phoenix, wrote to him to outline his options for taking his benefits. The letter 
contained a current value of his pension benefits, but also stated:
The above Pension Savings Value is not guaranteed and may be subject to deductions 
when your pension savings are accessed
and
Around 10 weeks before your intended retirement date well send you some retirement 
benefit illustrations. You can compare them with any others you get when shopping around.
Mr E contacted Phoenix on 13 September 2022 as he had not received any further 
information. Phoenix explained that the illustrations had been posted to Mr E on 25 August 
2022 and arranged for a copy to be reissued to him.
After receiving the information, Mr E made Phoenix aware of his chosen retirement option. 
Phoenix responded on 29 September 2022 asking Mr E to contact them so they could 
discuss all his options with him before they could act on his instruction.
Mr E called Phoenix as requested. During this phone call, Phoenix told Mr E it had sent the 
letters of 25 August and 13 September in error, and that they contained incorrect 
information. Mr E then complained to Phoenix about the poor service he had received.
Phoenix sent Mr E updated information on 22 October 2022 , but this information was also 
subsequently found to be incorrect, requiring a fourth letter to be sent to Mr E on 28 October 
2022. This contained an updated valuation and contained a statement that 
The maximum tax-free lump sum allowed under the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
simplified tax regime from these funds is [c£56,000].This represents 25.73% of the total fund 
value.
Following receipt of this fourth letter, Mr E gave instructions to Phoenix confirming his 
chosen option, which included taking the maximum allowed tax free cash lump sum. Phoenix 
received all the documents necessary to proceed on 4 November 2022.
Mr E then called Phoenix once more to confirm that it had everything it needed to pay out his 
benefits and assured him that the crystallization of his benefits would take place on 22 
November 2022.
Following the assurances he had received, Mr E borrowed money and went on holiday to 
celebrate his 65th birthday. Following his return, Mr E called Phoenix to find out why he had 
not received his pension benefits, as he had been told he would. Phoenix assured him that 
his benefits would be paid within a week, but this did not happen. Mr E received his benefits 
on 15 December 2022.
When he received his benefits, Mr E discovered that the tax free cash payment he received 
was c£46,000, some £10,000 less than he had been expecting. Phoenix explained that this 
was due to the cost of providing his GMP annuity rising since the quotation he had received 
on 28 October 2022.
Phoenix issued its final response to Mr Es complaint on 3 February 2023.
Phoenix summarised the main points of Mr Es complaint as follows:
You are frustrated with how long the claim has taken and the amount of calls you 
have had to make and when you do call the actions agreed are not completed
You are also unhappy that you were expecting annuity payments for your Normal 
Retirement Date (NRD - 22 November 2022) but did not receive a payment until 20 
December 2022 and suffered financial hardship due to this.
You are also unhappy as you were expecting a Tax Free Cash (TFC) payment of 
c£56,000 but then received c£46,000.
You are also unhappy with the conflicting information provided on letters and how 
this whole process has been a nightmare for you.
In its response, Phoenix upheld Mr Es complaint and accepted that it had made errors in 
issuing incorrect information and that it had caused a delay to the first payment of the 
annuity income and tax free lump sum. 
It explained that although the first payment was delayed, it had based the annuity on the 
value that applied on 22 November, so Mr E had received the benefits he should have 
received had the payments not been delayed. It went on to explain that it had backdated the 
annuity payments to 22 November 2022 and confirmed that future annuity payments would 
be made as if the annuity had indeed commenced on that date.
Phoenix also confirmed that Mr E had requested to be told if the value of his pension fund 
dropped by more than 5%. Although this had not technically happened, it accepted that it 
should have told him about the increased annuity cost and the consequent reduction in tax 
free cash.
Mr E had informed Phoenix that if he had known this, he may have considered other options 
for taking his benefits. Phoenix accepted that this may well have been the case and offered 
Mr E the option of reinstating his pension plan and cancelling the withdrawal of his funds to 
allow him to consider other options. It also added interest at the rate of 8% p.a. simple to both the delayed first annuity payment and the tax free cash lump sum, which equated to 
£183.
To recognise the poor level of service it had provided, together with the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Mr E, Phoenix offered him £500 compensation plus a further 
£20 for the cost of the telephone calls he had to make to them and £100 as it had taken too 
long to respond to his complaint. 
Mr E was unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence and agreed with the conclusions that Phoenix had reached. They felt 
that Phoenix had dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly, apologised to him and taken appropriate 
steps to ensure that he was not financially disadvantaged by its mistakes. They also felt that 
the level of compensation Phoenix offered Mr E in respect of his distress and inconvenience 
was appropriate in the circumstances of his complaint.
Mr E disagreed, and so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint and find that the redress proposed by 
Phoenix is appropriate in the circumstances.
I can appreciate that this may be disappointing to Mr E, so Ill explain my reasons.
Essentially, it is important to recognise that it is the role of this service to review the 
circumstances of a complaint, and where it finds errors have been made to try to put the 
complainant back into the position they would have been in had the errors not occurred. It is 
not our role to punish organisations for any mistakes they have made or expect them to 
provide benefits to their customers that would not have been available to them. 
In reviewing the evidence provided in support of this complaint, it is apparent that Phoenix 
made a number of errors, leading to a potential financial loss for Mr E as well as causing him 
a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. It is, however, important to say that 
Phoenix has recognised this and apologised to Mr E, and suggested how it feels it should 
compensate him fairly for its mistakes and the effect they have had on him.
Given that Phoenix accepts the substance and merits of Mr Es complaint, I will concentrate 
on the compensation it has offered him.
Firstly, in terms of the financial loss Mr E may have experienced, Phoenix has demonstrated 
that it has based the level of Mr Es annuity and tax free cash lump sum on the fund values 
in force on 22 November 2022, which is the date that the benefits should have been 
realised. To compensate Mr E for the effect of delaying the payment of his benefits, Phoenix 
has suggested adding interest to the delayed payments at the rate of 8% per annum simple, 
which is what this service would recommend. This compensation offer has the effect of 
putting Mr E back into the position he would have been in, so I feel that this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr E also complained about the reduction in tax free cash lump sum of c£10,000 between 
the figure he was quoted on 28 October 2022 and the figure he actually received. The 
documentation Phoenix sent Mr E made clear that the quotation he received was subject to change, and were not guaranteed. Phoenix explained that in Mr Es case the cost of 
providing his GMP annuity had risen during that period, reducing the amount of tax free cash 
available. Annuity prices are affected by a number of factors, primarily interest rates, gilt 
prices and inflation rates and can vary on a day to day basis. These market factors are 
outside the control of any company, so I cant hold Phoenix responsible for these changes.
Having said that, Phoenix has recognised that Mr E had asked to be updated on any change 
to his fund value of more that 5%. Although the fund value did not change by this amount, 
the cost of providing the GMP annuity did change significantly, leading to a reduction in the 
tax free cash that Mr E could take. Given this, Phoenix has offered to reinstate Mr Es policy 
so he could seek new benefit quotations, either from Phoenix or from another provider. I feel 
that this is also a fair and reasonable offer.
Ill now consider the distress and inconvenience Mr E experienced during the period relating 
to this complaint. I can see from his evidence that he suffered a significant amount of stress 
that was caused by Phoenixs errors. Mr E has stated that for personal reasons he had 
sought to take his retirement benefits before his SRD on a number of occasions, so Im 
satisfied that he would have felt any delay to receiving his benefits to be distressing. This 
distress would have been compounded by Phoenixs mistakes, which gave him cause to 
doubt its competence in calculating and paying his benefits correctly. He felt compelled to 
contact Phoenix on a number of occasions to try and make sure that he would receive his 
benefits on time. He has also provided evidence that he encountered some financial 
hardship, as he borrowed money based on Phoenixs assurances that he would receive his 
benefits on his SRD.
Phoenix have offered Mr E a total of £620 in distress and inconvenience payments, which I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint.
As I stated previously, it is the aim of this service to put a complainant back in the position 
they would have been in had any mistakes not occurred. In this case, Im satisfied that 
Phoenix has offered compensation in line with that this service would have recommended, 
and of an appropriate level.
As such, I wont be asking Phoenix to do anything else to resolve the complaint beyond the 
redress it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Consequently, I shall not be asking Phoenix Life Limited to do anything beyond what it has 
already offered to do for Mr E to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman