DRN-4148965
The complaint
Ms Ys complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with issues relating to her 
heating and gas fire under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms Y had a HomeCare Two policy with British Gas for many years. This provided her with 
boiler, controls and central heating cover (including an annual service) and gas appliance 
cover.
In autumn 2021, an engineer attended Ms Ys home to complete the annual service of her 
boiler and a gas fire. Ms Y was unhappy with the attitude of the engineer who attended.  And 
she said he handled the fire roughly with a pair of pliers.
Immediately after the service, Ms Y says the boiler started making a strange noise when 
taps in the house were turned on. And the gas fire became progressively more difficult to 
light until, a couple of days later, she couldnt light it at all.
Ms Y reported these issues and British Gas arranged an appointment to check the boiler and 
fire. But, 2 weeks later, when the engineer came, he said he was only looking at the boiler. 
He couldnt hear a noise so couldnt do any remedial work. The same thing happened during 
a second appointment.
In early December 2021, following a call from British Gass sales team, Ms Y decided to 
have a new boiler installed. Unfortunately, there were problems with this, resulting in Ms Y 
and her family being left with only intermittent heating and hot water. This situation continued 
until late February 2022.
An appointment was scheduled to review the gas fire five weeks after it had been serviced.  
This was cancelled by British Gas and re-arranged for two weeks later. When the engineer 
inspected the fire, he said that it needed new parts, which he ordered. And he came back 
the following day to install them.
The engineer came back towards the end of November. He noted there was damage to the 
fires injector pipes, making it unsafe. So he disconnected the gas supply and issued a 
notice prohibiting its use. The fire was not repaired until the end of April 2022.
Ms Y complained to British Gas about what had happened. British Gas responded and said 
theyd identified a number of broken appointments and failures in their customer service. 
They offered Ms Y £250 compensation for that.
Ms Y wasnt satisfied with British Gass response and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered it and concluded British Gas needed to do more to resolve it. 
They noted British Gas had said that Ms Y had been without her gas fire between early 
October and late November 2021. They were satisfied that was wrong and Ms Y had 
actually been without a fire from November until April 2022  during the winter months and at 
the same time she was having problems with the boiler  which left her and her family with 
reliable heating or hot water. They said £750 more fairly reflected the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Ms Y.
While I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld, my reasoning was 
different.  So I made a provisional decision, which I shared with both parties for their 
comments.  Both have confirmed theyve nothing to add.  So the matters been passed back 
to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any comments indicating I should change the provisional decision 
I made, Ive set out the details I gave in that as my final decision below.
Our investigator based their view of Ms Ys complaint on the issues she experienced with 
both her boiler and her gas fire. I understand why they did that, as Ms Y complained to us 
about how British Gas had dealt with both. But, for the reasons Ive set out, I think I need to 
treat them separately.
The boiler
Ms Y says her original boiler started making a strange noise after it was serviced. Ive seen 
that British Gas attended her property to investigate this  as Id expect them to do. The 
engineers who attended couldnt do anything to resolve the problem as the boiler didnt 
make the noise when they were there. I cant say that was wrong.
I appreciate Ms Y also had concerns with the new boiler after it was installed. And I 
understand that caused her and her family some distress. But I cant say British Gas should 
have done more to resolve those issues because I can only look at work covered by Ms Ys 
HomeCare policy.
When I first considered this complaint, I noted that the boiler was replaced. I asked British 
Gas to clarify whether that replacement was made under the policy terms. Theyve said it 
wasnt.  And thats consistent with what Ms Ys told us about buying a new boiler after 
becoming concerned her old one didnt meet government standards.
I dont know whether replacing the boiler was necessary. Whats relevant to this complaint is 
that it wasnt installed under the terms of the HomeCare policy. And that means the 
problems with its operation after installation arent something I can look at.
The gas fire
It seems to be common ground that the fire stopped working in early October, a couple of 
days after it was serviced. Ms Y says she was without it for several months  all through the 
winter. British Gas have said it was repaired on 26 November 2021, although the marble 
surround wasnt properly secured to the wall until April 2022.
Ive looked at the evidence and I think British Gas are wrong about when the fire was 
repaired. The information provided by Ms Y includes a copy of a safety notice issued by an 
engineer on 26 November 2021. This says the fire is immediately dangerous due to the 
burner valve being twisted and that the fire should not be used.
Im satisfied from this that British Gass statements about when the fire was repaired are 
wrong. And that the burner valve being twisted is consistent with it being handled inappropriately with a pair of pliers. So I think its most likely the reason the fire didnt work 
was because of how the engineer handled the service. And that means I need to think about 
how British Gas need to put that right.
Putting things right
Our investigator thought British Gas should pay Ms Y £750 compensation for being without 
reliable heating and hot water for an extended period. Ms Y has said this isnt enough to 
compensate her for what went wrong and for exposing her family to danger from the faulty 
gas fire. British Gas have said the sum is excessive because she had heating when she was 
without a fire, and vice versa.
Ive thought very carefully about what compensation is reasonable here because, as Ive 
explained above, I cant take into account the issues with getting the new boiler working 
properly after it was installed. Nor can I consider what might have happened. So I havent 
taken into account Ms Ys belief there was a risk of exposure to gas fumes or of explosion.  
Theres no evidence this was the case.
What is relevant to my consideration is the length of time Ms Y was inconvenienced by not 
having a functioning gas fire. As Ive explained, Im satisfied British Gass statement it was 
fixed on 26 November 2021 is wrong. The records they have submitted show the issue with 
the burner valve was corrected in mid-March 2022, with the surround being reattached about 
five weeks after that.
That means  contrary to what British Gas have said  there were at least 12 weeks over the 
winter months when Ms Y was without her fire. British Gas knew she was also having issues 
with the newly installed boiler. Based on British Gass service records, I calculate that Ms Y 
was without either a fire or reliable heating for 11 weeks.
Ive considered this length of time against the guidance set out on our website about the 
awards we make. This says we may consider an award of between £300 and £750 where 
the impact of what has gone wrong:
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience 
and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over 
many weeks or months.
I think thats consistent with whats happened here. And the fact that Ms Y is elderly and 
suffers from mobility issues means I think its reasonable that the compensation to be paid 
should be at the top end of this bracket. So Im directing British Gas pay Ms Y £750 
compensation for what went wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ys complaint and directing British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay her £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman