DRN-2480555
The complaint
Miss L complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim for subsidence under 
her home insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
In August 2018, Miss L noticed some cracks in her property and submitted a claim to Aviva. 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property. Miss L says that when the loss adjuster 
came to the property she was told there would be a period of monitoring of the crack to 
check the movement.
The loss adjuster completed a report and concluded the damage was due to subsidence. It 
said the most likely cause of the damage was clay shrinkage of the underlying soils. And it 
suspected the clay shrinkage to be linked to vegetation of a neighbouring property.
Aviva arranged site investigations in December 2018 which concluded on balance that the 
neighbouring properties vegetation had contributed to the subsidence. It said it would 
contact them to try and resolve the matter. The report also recommended Miss L maintained 
some of the plants in her property to mitigate any further damage. 
Aviva sent letters to the neighbouring property regarding the tree works. There followed a 
delay before the neighbouring property carried out some remedial work. Miss L raised 
concerns about the extent of the work, and in July 2019 Aviva revisited the property to 
inspect this. Aviva said the level of tree removal was in line with what was recommended, 
but noted the stumps hadnt been treated, so the trees had the potential to regrow in the 
future. 
Aviva concluded that as things stood, the tree removal works were sufficient to allow repairs 
to begin. It also recommended the neighbouring property was served a notice to treat the 
tree stumps in order to prevent regrowth. 
In September 2019, Aviva appointed a contractor to begin repairs. Miss L raised concerns 
that no monitoring had taken place to ensure the property was stable, so the repairs didnt 
proceed.
Miss L complained to Aviva in January 2020. She was unhappy at the length of time it had 
taken to get to this stage of the claim. She also raised concerns that Aviva hadnt done 
enough to ensure the mitigation works were done by the neighbouring property. And she 
continued to have concerns that no monitoring had been done even though it had been 
previously recommended.
Aviva responded to Miss L. It referred to its visit in July 2019, where it was deemed the 
property was stable enough to begin repairs. However, Aviva also said it now agreed to a 
period of monitoring and accepted this should have been done earlier. Aviva paid Miss L 
£500 for the poor service she had received on the claim to date.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Miss L referred her complaint to our service. In addition to 
the points above, Miss L added that as a result of the claim delays, shed delayed work to 
build a new conservatory. This had meant shed incurred additional costs for building 
materials. Miss L was also unhappy Aviva werent looking to claim any costs from the 
neighbouring property for the damage caused.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
found Avivas engineer was satisfied that any regrowth of the trees didnt pose an imminent 
risk to the property. And they found from the initial monitoring reports that the property 
appeared to be relatively stable. So they were satisfied with Avivas conclusion that the claim 
could proceed to repairs. 
Our investigator did agree that Avivas handling of the claim led to some avoidable delays 
and that its communication couldve been better. But they found the £500 compensation it 
paid for this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Aviva didnt respond to our investigator. Miss L disagreed. She said the whole situation had 
been extremely stressful and time consuming. Miss L said Aviva needed to acknowledge its 
miscommunication and unprofessionalism during the claim. She added that it needed to 
recognise that monitoring of the property should be carried out for a minimum of 12 months. 
And she said Aviva should have ongoing dialogue with the neighbouring property regarding 
the mitigation of the trees in line with the original site investigation report.
Miss L asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as reached by our 
investigator, and Ill explain my reasons why below.
Site monitoring
Miss Ls concern is that monitoring of the cracks was recommended at an early stage in the 
claim but didnt start until much later. And Miss L also says the monitoring should take place 
over a minimum period of 12 months to take into account seasonal variation in the ground 
conditions.
Our services role isnt to determine how long a period of monitoring should be for a 
subsidence claim. Rather, it is to consider the opinions and conclusions of the appointed 
engineers, and weigh this up against any other evidence provided to see if they are 
reasonable and persuasive. 
Ive looked at the site investigation report which states following tree surgery we 
recommend that the building be monitored to establish the effectiveness of the works in 
restoring stability. 
Avivas engineer has commented on this recommendation and said, when dealing with 
subsidence claims, an engineer will consider the form of monitoring they feel most 
appropriate. The engineer then provides some examples of monitoring which include a 
visual observation of the damage and goes on to say, based on the successful completion of tree mitigation works and our visual assessment of the damage, following tree works, the 
engineer has concluded the relevant insurance repairs could be implemented without the 
need for formal monitoring. The engineer said they based their recommendation on the 
crack damage being classed as slight, and in line with the industry standard for these 
repairs.
Aviva then decided to instruct a short period of monitoring based on Miss Ls concerns and 
Ive seen a copy of the results which show the property is relatively stable. Im persuaded 
these results support the conclusions originally reached by Avivas engineer.
So in Miss Ls case, whilst I acknowledge she feels the monitoring period should be at least 
12 months, Ive not been provided with any firm evidence which counters the conclusions 
reached by the engineer, so on balance Im persuaded that the property is relatively stable, 
and that repair works can begin. 
Neighbouring party tree mitigation works
Miss L says that in order to fairly resolve her complaint, Aviva should have an ongoing 
dialogue with the neighbouring property to ensure the tree mitigation works are done in line 
with the original site investigations. In particular it appears the main cause of concern is that 
the tree stumps havent been treated, so they are already starting to regrow.
Ive considered Avivas actions and its attempts to move the claim forward. I can see it wrote 
a number of letters to the neighbouring property to explain the works required, possible 
consequences of not doing the work, and chased regularly until the work was done. So, 
whilst I think Aviva could have been more proactive in the frequency of its chasing letters, 
Im satisfied it has acted reasonably in its efforts to convince the neighbouring party to 
remove the trees. 
Aviva revisited the property soon after to see the impact of the work. The engineers 
comments state any re sprouting of the trees that were removed would not pose any 
imminent risk to the policyholders property for another 15 to 20 years and so there is no 
imminent danger of subsidence now or in the near future. 
In regard to the ongoing maintenance of the neighbouring trees the engineer states the 
neighbour was made aware of their responsibilities to manage and maintain the vegetation 
within their own boundariesthere is not much more (that) can be done to get them to carry 
out further tree worksno further mitigation is considered relevant at this stage.
So based on this evidence, and alongside the results from the formal monitoring, I am 
persuaded there is clear evidence the tree removal has stabilised the property prior to a 
repair. I havent seen any firm evidence to show me this isnt the case. And as the engineer 
has concluded there isnt an immediate risk of further damage, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require Aviva to continue dialogue with the neighbouring party unless it can be 
shown further damage is occurring. Compensation
I do have some sympathy with Miss Ls experience of this claim. And I can understand her 
frustration with matters that havent progressed quickly to date. But I can only consider the 
delays and service that Aviva is responsible for here.
I dont find Aviva responsible for any of the delays caused by the neighbouring party in 
removing the trees. And Im not persuaded that a period of formal monitoring was absolutely 
necessary based the engineers comments and on the results shown to date. So I cant fairly 
hold Aviva responsible for these delays or by association any planned construction works by    
Miss L. 
I do however find some avoidable delays in the claim around Avivas appointment of 
contractors and I think it could have been more proactive in chasing the neighbouring party 
to remove the trees. These delays have added some months to the overall claim journey.
I also find Aviva could have explained its position around the monitoring, or lack of, at 
Miss Ls property much earlier in the claim. This seems to have caused Miss L a significant 
amount of upset as she now feels the property should be monitored for longer than it has. 
And if Aviva had been clear about this from the start, its possible this upset could have been 
avoided.
Taking everything into account, I find Avivas payment of £500 compensation for these 
issues reasonable, and I am not going to require it to make a further payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman