DRN-3520989
The complaint
Miss B complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) harassed her in 
relation to a credit card debt it acquired in October 2021. Miss B also complains that Cabot 
purchased her account whilst she was in dispute with the original lender and recorded a 
default on her credit file. Miss B also complains that Cabot referred a complaint to the 
original lender on her behalf, despite not having permission to do so. 
What happened
A third party business (N) sold a credit card debt in Miss Bs name to Cabot in October 2021. 
Cabot sent Miss B a Notice of Assignment confirming the new arrangements and asked her 
to get in contact to discuss her account. Cabot also recorded a default on Miss Bs credit file. 
Miss B contacted Cabot and raised a complaint. Miss B explained she had made an 
irresponsible lending complaint about Ns credit card that had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Cabot says it was assigned an outstanding balance of £985 by N. In October 2021 Cabot 
received a request from N to reduce the outstanding balance by £374.23 leaving a figure of 
£610.77. Cabot says it contacted N and asked it whether the debt was being repurchased 
following Miss Bs irresponsible lending complaint. N didnt recall the account.  
Cabot issued a final response on 29 November 2021 and told Miss B it had removed its 
default entry from her credit file. Cabot also confirmed it had forwarded Miss Bs concerns 
about the sale of her account to N to deal with. Cabots final response apologised for delays 
and poor service when responding to Miss Bs complaint and it reduced the outstanding 
balance by £150 leaving £460.77. 
Miss B also raised concerns that Cabot referred her complaint that the account had been 
sold, while there was an ongoing investigation by the Financial Ombudsman Service, to N 
without her consent. 
An investigator at this service looked into Miss Bs complaint but thought Cabot had dealt 
with it fairly. The investigator said this service cant consider complaints about complaint 
handling in its own right. Miss B asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining that I can only consider Miss Bs complaint about Cabot in this 
decision. I understand Miss B had a related complaint against N that was upheld by an 
ombudsman at this service. Cabot and N are separate businesses. This decision will only 
look at whether Cabot has made any mistakes or treated Miss B unfairly. 
Miss B has complained that Cabot purchased the debt whilst her complaint with N was 
ongoing. But thats not something I can fairly say Cabot was responsible for. Ultimately, it 
was Ns decision to sell the account in Miss Bs name to Cabot. I havent seen anything that 
indicates Cabot acted unfairly by purchasing the account from N. 
Miss B complains that Cabot harassed her after it purchased the debt. I can see how 
frustrating it was for Miss B to be told her account had been sold whilst she had an ongoing 
complaint. Cabot sent Miss B a Notice of Assignment and tried to contact her about the 
outstanding balance. But once Cabot was notified of Miss Bs ongoing complaint with N, it 
took steps to contact it and check the status of her account. At that stage, collections activity 
was placed on hold. Im satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances. Ive looked at 
Cabots contact with Miss B but havent found it acted unreasonably.  
When Cabot purchased the debt, it took on responsibility for reporting the default against 
Miss B. I understand, given the situation, why Miss B felt that was unfair. But when a 
business acquires an account thats in default, it can report that to the credit reference 
agencies. I can see that Cabot agreed to remove its entry on 29 November 2021 when it 
responded to Miss Bs complaint. And whilst I understand the ombudsman who looked at 
Miss Bs complaint about N said it should remove adverse information from her credit file, 
that information wasnt given to Cabot when it purchased the account. Im satisfied that 
Cabot acted fairly by removing its default on receipt of instructions to do so from N. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent been persuaded that Cabot has treated her 
unfairly in this case. Whilst I understand there was a related complaint ongoing at the time 
Cabot purchased the debt, I havent seen anything that shows it treated Miss B unfairly. 
Once the situation was explained, Cabot agreed to suspend collections activity and went on 
to reduce the outstanding balance as instructed by N. In addition, Cabot acted on 
instructions from N to remove the default. Im satisfied Cabot acted fairly and in line with its 
instructions from N.  
Miss B has also complained that Cabot referred her complaint about the circumstances 
surrounding the sale of her account to N without consent. As our investigator has said, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider complaints that are covered by the DISP 
rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. I need to explain to Miss B 
that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and theres only limited 
circumstances when we can consider it. The issues raised that relate directly to how Cabot 
investigated Miss Bs complaint, such as its decision to refer her concerns to N, dont come 
under the scope of our rules. That means I cant consider Miss Bs concerns that Cabots 
decision to refer her complaint to N.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but as Im satisfied Cabot dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman