DRN-3188566
The complaint
Ms E says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says that the cost of the loans was very high and she struggled to repay them. And she often 
had more than one loan running at the same time. She thinks that LaH shouldnt have lent to 
her. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about 35 home collected loans LaH provided to Ms E between August 
2006 and December 2015. Some of the information I have been provided, about some of the 
lending, is in the table below (Ive not included some loans to save space). 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 17/08/2006 £500 32 04/01/2007
2 21/09/2006 £500 32 08/02/2007
3 07/12/2006 £750 50 08/01/2009
4 21/12/2006 £750 41 04/12/2008
5 08/02/2007 £625 41 09/04/2009
6 04/12/2008 £750 41 25/06/2009
7 09/04/2009 £450 52 10/12/2009
8 25/06/2009 £750 41 11/02/2010
loans 9 to 29 not shown
30 18/12/2014 £250 41 30/07/2015
31 18/12/2014 £450 52 10/12/2015
32 30/04/2015 £375 41 written off
33 30/07/2015 £500 41 written off
34 30/07/2015 £250 41 written off
35 10/12/2015 £400 50 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider loans 1 to 31 as Mrs E complained more 
than six years after they were lent. So, it doesnt think they are within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
LaH has also said that it shouldnt have approved loans 32 to 35. It offered compensation 
similar to what I would award if I were to uphold the complaint about this lending. Mrs B 
hasnt agreed to this compensation.
Our adjudicator firstly said that loans 1 to 5 werent within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as they were sold before this service is able to consider complaints 
about this product type.  
But he thought Mrs E had complained in time about loans 6 to 35. This is because whilst she 
made her complaint more than six years from when the loans were advanced, there was no 
evidence to suggest she complained later than three years before she was aware or ought to 
have been aware she could complain.  
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. 
He said that by loan 6 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH 
shouldve stopped lending at this point. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of the complaint (it didnt 
talk about the merits of what the adjudicator said about irresponsible lending). It said that, 
essentially, Mrs E had problems making the loan repayments in 2017. So, she would have 
been aware that the loans were causing her difficulty more than three years before she 
made her complaint. And she should have been aware that she could complain about them 
much earlier than she did. It says this this approach would be consistent with other answers 
that LaH, and its parent company, have received from the Financial Ombudsman Service 
recently. 
Mrs E didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
Why I cant look into loans 1 to 5 and why I can look into loans 6 to 35
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms E and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider 
loans 6 to 35. Ill explain why. 
Loans 1 to 5 were started before this product was regulated in April 2007. I can only look at 
regulated loans, and so I cant consider these. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Ms E) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 6 to 35 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms E was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Ms E experienced repayment problems this shouldve 
caused her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this 
particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems would no doubt have led Ms E to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made her aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms E was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 6 to 35 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or not I 
think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Es complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
As I said above I cant look at loans 1 to 5. But these loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Ms E had with LaH. So, they are something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 35 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Ms E, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Es case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:Ms E had been indebted to LaH for over two years without a break in her making 
repayments to it. 
Ms Es first loan was for £500 and loan 6 was for £625. But added to this, Ms E had 
not repaid loans 3 and 5 and shed only just repaid loan 4. So, her overall 
indebtedness, and monthly repayments, had increased significantly.  
And this pattern of Ms E being provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid her existing lending continued 
throughout the lending relationship. 
So, at this point, LaH ought to have known that Ms E was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet a sustained and increasing 
need. And LaH ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Ms Es 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ms E didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed LaH for some time. Loan 
35 was taken out more than nine years after Ms Es first. Ms E had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an extended period.
I think that Ms E lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Es indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms E borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 35 and LaH should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms E from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.LaH shouldnt have given Ms E loans 6 to 35.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms E towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms E which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms E originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH may  if LaH chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off.
D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Ms E. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Es borrowing for loans 6 to 35 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Es credit file. If LaH 
has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs require LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Ms E 
a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Es complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman