DRN-3142565
The complaint
Mrs S complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs S needed a planned caesarean section to deliver her baby. She made a claim for this 
under the policy.
BUPA turned down the claim. It said the policy didnt cover this. Mrs S went ahead with the 
caesarean section privately. Her representative complained to BUPA on her behalf, and said 
he thought the policy wording was misleading. BUPA didnt agree, and so Mrs S brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt agree with Mrs Ss 
representative that the policy wording was misleading, and thought BUPA had been entitled 
to turn down the claim. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
We do not pay for treatment for:
pregnancy, including treatment of an embryo or foetus
childbirth and delivery of a baby

Mrs Ss claim was for childbirth and delivery of her baby. Im satisfied this would fall squarely 
under the above exclusion, and therefore isnt covered.
However, there are two exceptions to the above childbirth exclusion. The second one says:
We pay for eligible treatment of an acute condition of the member (mother) that relates to 
pregnancy or childbirth but only if all the following apply:
the treatment is required due to a flare-up of the medical condition, and
the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored 
fully to your state of health prior to the flare-up of the condition without you needing to 
receive prolonged treatment
As our investigator has pointed out, the words in bold are specifically defined in the policy. 
Acute condition is defined in the policy as:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
The consultant has explained that Mrs S previously had an obstructed labour and required 
an emergency caesarean section, and thought it would be dangerous to attempt a vaginal 
delivery. The consultant also said there was a significant cephalopelvic disproportion and it 
wouldnt be possible to have a vaginal delivery. Finally, the consultant later said Mrs S had a 
transverse lie with the head up and the feet down, and therefore Mrs S required a 
caesarean section. 
Ive looked carefully at what Mrs Ss consultant has said about the reasons why Mrs S 
needed a caesarean section. Whilst its apparent that Mrs Ss caesarean section was 
medically necessary, I dont think the evidence supports that a caesarean section was 
needed because Mrs S had a flare-up of a disease, illness or injury.
Im therefore satisfied that BUPAs decision to turn down the claim by relying on the 
exclusion was reasonable. I dont think Mrs S has shown that the claim falls under the 
exception to the exclusion. I also dont agree with Mrs Ss representative that the policy 
wording is misleading.
Mrs Ss representative says that BUPA covered Mrs Ss previous caesarean sections, so he 
thinks that the policy wording mustve changed since then. He thinks BUPA intentionally 
withheld the policy terms from their customers for a number of years and added the 
pregnancy and childbirth exclusion at that time. 
BUPA says it no longer has information relating to Mrs Ss previous claims (due to the length 
of time that had passed). It says it sent Mrs S her renewal information every year, which 
included the policy guide, and that it lets members know of any changes to the cover around 
six weeks ahead of their renewal. It clarified that it made changes to the pregnancy and 
childbirth exclusion ahead of Mrs Ss 2019 renewal, and that it informed her of this. 
Ive read the Important Information document that was sent to Mrs S ahead of her 2019 
renewal. This made it clear that changes had been made to the pregnancy and childbirth 
exclusion and specific references to caesarean sections had been removed. It also said that 
caesarean sections would continue to be eligible under the second exception (that Ive 
quoted above). 
Whilst Mrs S representative thinks this was misleading, I dont agree. The second exception 
makes it clear when this would apply, and so long as those circumstances had been met, 
then I think its apparent a caesarean section would be covered. The point here is that Mrs S 
didnt meet the circumstances set out under the exception.
In terms of the renewal packs being sent out, BUPA says that it did send the renewal 
information to Mrs S each year, and has provided Mrs S with the dates the renewal 
information was sent. BUPA says it does include the policy terms when it sends out renewal 
information. I understand that Mrs Ss representative did contact BUPA directly and ask for a 
copy of the policy terms in 2011, 2013 and 2014. However, BUPA no longer has the call 
notes so we dont know why a copy of the policy terms were requested. Though based on 
the available information, I dont think Mrs S has shown that its more likely than not that 
BUPA failed to send the policy terms at previous renewals. But in any event, Mrs Ss representative hasnt provided any evidence to show that BUPA 
changed the policy terms regarding pregnancy and childbirth and failed to notify Mrs S of 
this. The information weve received from BUPA is that the policy previously excluded 
pregnancy and childbirth (apart from the exceptions). 
As Ive said, changes were made to the pregnancy and childbirth exclusion in 2019. 
Therefore, if Mrs Ss previous caesarean sections were covered by BUPA (though I havent 
seen evidence of that from either party), I would assume that was because the claims fell 
under the exceptions to the exclusion at the time.
As our investigator has pointed out, Mrs S accepts that she received the renewal information 
from BUPA from 2018 onwards, and therefore would have been aware that the policy 
excluded pregnancy and childbirth. Particularly as direct reference was made to this 
exclusion in the Important Information document sent with the 2019 renewal. Despite this, 
Mrs S continued to renew her cover each year.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs S has shown that BUPA misled her about the cover 
under the policy that related to pregnancy and childbirth.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman