DRN-3951437
The complaint
Miss R complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss R held an annual travel insurance, provided by IPA. The policy was purchased online 
on 15 June 2022, through a price comparison website. 
Miss R travelled abroad and, unfortunately, became very unwell when she arrived. Miss R 
was admitted to hospital and underwent an operation. Miss R eventually travelled back to 
the UK accompanied by a doctor at her own expense. In the meantime, IPA had declined 
Miss Rs claim for emergency medical treatment and associated costs because it said her 
policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. 
Unhappy, Miss R complained to IPA before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened, and said he thought Miss 
R had purchased a policy which wasnt suitable for her. Miss R didnt agree with our 
investigators findings, so the complaint was referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
I made my provisional decision about Miss Rs complaint in January 2023. In it, I said:
Im very sorry to hear about Miss Rs illness and prognosis. I have no doubt that IPAs 
decision to decline her claim must have been very upsetting, at what can only have been an 
already extremely difficult time. I understand Miss R has been left with significant bills as a 
result of IPAs decision to decline her claim, and I have every sympathy for the position she 
has found herself in. 
However, when making a decision, I must remain independent and impartial and reach an 
outcome that is fair and reasonable to both parties. In doing so, Im not limited to considering 
the reasons which IPA has given to Miss R for declining her claim. Our service has an 
inquisitorial remit, which allows me to consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making this provisional decision.  
Its not in dispute that Miss R unexpectedly fell unwell while abroad, and that the diagnosis 
which resulted in her needing an operation abroad wasnt known at the time she travelled. I 
also understand Miss R hadnt been advised by her GP not to travel. But, this doesnt 
automatically mean that IPA must pay her claim. 
IPA says this policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions and, in its final response 
letter to Miss Rs complaint, says that Miss R misrepresented facts about her medical history 
to it when she took out the policy. 
I dont intend to make a finding about whether I think its fair or reasonable for IPA to rely on 
the policy term about pre-existing medical conditions which it initially quoted in declining 
Miss Rs claim. This is because Miss R was asked questions about her previous medical 
history when she bought her policy. Therefore, I think the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and Im 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Miss 
Rs complaint. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying one. For the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
When buying this policy, Miss R was asked to answer yes or no to the following question: 
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition? 
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your 
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your 
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory 
conditions (including asthma). 
Before proceeding with the purchase of the policy, Miss R was asked to confirm shed read 
the important information about the policy. The important information says: 
Please note that the policy you have selected will only be suitable if you and anyone 
you wish to insure can answer no to the following questions. 
1) Within the last 2 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy 
suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication (including 
repeat prescriptions) and/or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations? 

If you can answer no to the questions above, please select confirm & pay now 
to proceed. 
If anyone you wish to insure is unable to answer no to the questions above, 
please request a quote for policies that cover pre-existing medical conditions 
using the link below. 
Miss R answered no to both of the above questions. IPA says Miss R should have 
answered yes because of GP consultations which took place in early June 2022. 
Ive reviewed all the medical information which is available to me and Ive considered the 
events which happened prior to this policy being purchased on 15 June 2022. Miss Rs 
medical records show a GP consultation on 1 June 2022, two weeks before the policy was 
purchased, for persistent headaches. The GP notes state the headaches were reported as 
affecting Miss Rs speech. Miss R was diagnosed with sinusitis and was prescribed medication for both sinusitis and migraine. Miss Rs medical records show another GP 
consultation on 13 June 2022, two days before the policy was purchased. I think its clear 
from the medical notes that Miss R was, at this point, concerned there could be a very 
serious cause for her headaches. But, during this second consultation, the GP diagnosed 
tension-type headaches and suggested that Miss R get a massage to loosen tight neck 
muscles. Miss R was sent a follow-up text message on the same day with a link to NHS 
advice on tension headaches. 
I understand Miss R says she hadnt been diagnosed with any specific medical condition 
before buying the policy. But, Miss R had consulted a doctor twice for headaches in the 
weeks leading up to the purchase of the policy and her medical records state she had been 
diagnosed as having sinusitis and subsequently tension headaches in the days prior to 
buying the insurance. Miss R doesnt believe that headaches are a medical condition but, in 
these circumstances, Im afraid I dont agree. 
I think the questions asked when the policy was sold would have prompted a reasonable 
consumer that sinusitis and/or tension headaches were something IPA wanted to know 
about. So, I think Miss R should reasonably have answered yes to the questions she was 
asked, and I dont think she took reasonable care when answering the questions. Whether 
the medication prescribed to Miss R was ever used and/or whether the medication was a 
one-off or a repeat prescription doesnt change my findings on this point. 
Im satisfied that, if Miss R had answered yes to the above questions, IPA wouldnt have 
sold her this policy. So, Miss R made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and IPA is 
therefore entitled to rely on the relevant remedy set out in the legislation. The remedy 
applies regardless of whether the medical conditions which were misrepresented relate to 
the medical condition ultimately claimed for. 
IPA appears to have treated Miss Rs misrepresentation as careless. This means, under 
CIDRA, IPA is entitled to decline Miss Rs claim and cancel the contract from inception. IPA 
should also refund Miss Rs premiums to her and I note IPAs final response letter of 27 July 
2022 says this had been done. Overall, I dont think this is an unfair or unreasonable position 
for IPA to take. 
Ive also considered what Miss R has said about IPAs handling of her claim. I agree that the 
content of an email which Miss R received from IPA on 5 July 2022 suggests that IPA would 
be covering her claim. But, this doesnt mean that IPA waived its right to subsequently 
decline the claim and/or that IPA hasnt treated Miss R fairly overall when making its claim 
decision. It would, of course, have been more helpful if IPA had explained on 5 July 2022 
that its review of Miss Rs medical records was still ongoing and that cover under the policy 
couldnt yet be confirmed. However, IPA contacted Miss Rs representative less than 24 
hours later both verbally and in writing to explain that the claim wasnt covered. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Miss R wasnt disadvantaged by IPAs email of 5 July 2022. 
IPAs claim notes record that it was first notified about Miss Rs claim on 27 June 2022. It 
provided updates to Miss Rs representative on 28 June 2022 and 29 June 2022. There 
doesnt appear to have been any contact between IPA and Miss Rs representative from 30 
June 2020 to 5 July 2022. But, Miss Rs representative had already been told that IPA was 
awaiting Miss Rs medical records as well as medical reports from the treating hospital, so I 
think there was little else IPA could usefully have added by way of an update during this 
time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R. But, I dont think IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances, so I dont currently intend to direct it to do anything further.IPA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss R responded with further comments, 
which Ive summarised as follows:
her doctor recorded tension headaches on her medical notes;
she answered the questions asked to the best of her knowledge;
the example medical conditions given in the questions asked are long-term, high-risk, 
major medical conditions but there is no mention of minor or one-off illnesses;
the questions asked are misleading, ambiguous, and poorly explained and if shed 
been asked a straightforward question, such as whether shed been to the doctor, 
then shed have known to declare her medical conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to Miss Rs response and to the comments she has made. I 
havent reached my own medical conclusions about Miss Rs medical conditions or 
substituted her doctors opinion with my own. I dont dispute that Miss Rs doctor didnt think 
there was any cause for concern, and Miss Rs medical notes reflect this. But the key and 
relevant issue is whether I think Miss R took reasonable care when answering the questions 
IPA asked based on the medical evidence which is available to me  and not whether Miss 
Rs illness could have been foreseen. Im satisfied that the questions IPA asked were clear 
and specific. I dont think the questions are ambiguous or misleading, and I dont agree that 
the example medical conditions listed meant it was reasonable for Miss R to conclude that 
she didnt need to tell IPA about the doctors visits which took place in the weeks and days 
leading up to the policy being purchased. 
I understand my outcome wont be what Miss R was hoping for, but I wont be changing my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman