DRN-1994305
The complaint
Mr M complains that Deeside Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold him a roadside assistance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr M went into Deesides office and purchased a roadside assistance policy. Around a 
month later his van broke down, so he called for roadside assistance. When Mr M tried to 
claim on the policy, he discovered his van wasnt covered as it was too long. Because of this 
Mr M complained to Deeside. He said theyd sold him a policy that wasnt suitable, and they 
should have known his van would never be covered. 
Deeside reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the policy was sold on a non-
advised basis and they wouldnt know the size of Mr Ms van. Deeside said it was up to Mr M 
to decide whether the policy was suitable for him. Mr M disagreed and brought his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that Mr M was provided with clear, fair and not misleading information when the policy was 
sold to him. She also agreed Deeside wouldnt have known Mr Ms van was too long when 
he was sold the policy. Our investigator let Mr M know that as the policy wasnt right for      
Mr M, he could contact to insurer to see if they would provide a refund. Mr M didnt agree, he 
said the policy was of no use to him and Deeside shouldnt have sold it to him. 
As Mr M disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Deeside sold Mr M his policy in branch on a non-advised sale. This means when it
sold the policy it needed to provide him with information that was clear, fair and not
misleading to enable him to decide whether it was suitable.
Ive reviewed the information Mr M would have been provided at the time, this includes the 
policy document and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). On the IPID there 
is a section titled Are there any restrictions on cover? Next to this there is a big red box 
with a white triangle and a red exclamation mark. Directly under this it says: The vehicle 
must be less than: 
 3.5 tonnes,
 6.4 metres long (including a tow bar)
 2.55 metres wide
Mr M has said his van is 22 feet long, and as the policy on covers vehicles up to, just under, 
21 feet long its not covered. I agree from what Mr Ms said his van isnt covered by the 
policy, but Im not persuaded Deeside have done anything wrong. I say this because the 
IPID is clear about what vehicles arent covered by the policy. And as the title of the section 
is written in bold with a big red box and exclamation mark next to it, Im satisfied Deeside did 
enough to bring this exclusion to Mr Ms attention. Im therefore not going to instruct Deeside 
to do anything different. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman