DRN-2005029
The complaint
Mr W says Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group set up a motor insurance policy in his 
name without his knowledge and without completing enough checks. 
What happened
In August 2019 Adrian Flux arranged a policy - with Mr W named as the policy holder - 
based on an online application made in his name, using his details. The direct debits were 
set up against Mr Ws limited company and the named driver on the policy (Mr E) was a 
company employee. Adrian Flux carried out standard checks that it thought raised no 
concerns about the application. It then sent the policy documents to the contact email 
address that was provided, which was for Mr E. Shortly afterwards, Adrian Flux received a 
copy of Mr Ws driving licence and code from Mr Es email address. 
In October 2019, as there were problems with payments on the credit agreement that had 
been entered into, Adrian Flux contacted Mr W by letter and by email. He responded and 
said he hadnt been aware that the policy was in his name - he said he thought he was going 
to be on it as a named driver. Adrian Flux didnt think it had done anything wrong whilst 
setting up the policy. It said it was chasing Mr W for a debt owed on the policy on the 
instructions of the insurer, because it had paid a claim made on it. But Adrian Flux then 
asked the insurer to consider Mr Ws assertion that fraud had taken place.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint against Adrian Flux. She didnt think it 
had made any errors. She said it wasnt unusual for insurance to be taken out in someone 
elses name, or for a different email address to be used as a contact for the policy. She 
thought Adrian Flux had carried out adequate checks. She noted that Mr W knew the policy 
was being set up by Mr E. She also noted that although Mr W had reported the matter to the 
police, they hadnt taken any action  and the insurer hadnt found any evidence of fraud.
Mr W pointed out that Mr E had given several wrong answers to the questions asked when 
setting the policy up (such as whether Mr W was a smoker). He said as Mr E worked with 
him - and had lived at his home for a short time - he had access to his details and had 
probably intercepted his post. Mr W didnt think he should be liable for any money owed. 
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Adrian Flux hasnt said it thinks Mr W was a party to Mr Es actions. Assuming he wasnt, 
then its clear why hes so concerned and upset about what has happened. From the 
comments Mr W made to the investigator, it seems Mr E has caused Mr W many other 
problems, and that his actions have left Mr W with other debts. Currently, it seems Mr Es 
whereabouts are not known, and I have no doubt that Mr W is facing serious difficulties. But 
for me to decide that Adrian Flux caused the problems he has in relation to the insurance 
policy, there would have to be evidence of errors on its part or that it had acted unreasonably 
in some way. 
As far as I can see, Adrian Flux acted in good faith in setting the policy up. I dont think there  
was anything in the application that should have alerted it to the possibility of fraud. Although 
its now clear that Mr E made factual errors when providing Mr Ws details online, Adrian 
Flux would have had no way of knowing that the details werent correct at the time. 
As the investigator pointed out, it isnt unusual for a policys contact address to be that of a 
named driver, as in this case, which meant the policy documents and subsequent emails 
were sent to Mr E. But Mr W cant show he wasnt aware of that or didnt see the 
correspondence. He told Adrian Flux he knew the policy was being set up. Mr W says his 
card was used without his knowledge by Mr E, and it seems Mr E had used it previously 
without permission. Unfortunately, Adrian Flux couldnt have known that was the case. 
When a copy of Mr Ws driving licence was provided to Adrian Flux via Mr Es email address, 
I think it was reasonable for it to see that as evidence that all was in order. It only emerged 
later that Mr E had access to Mr Ws property, at work and also at his home for a time. So 
although he had the means and the opportunity to act in a fraudulent way, Adrian Flux 
wasnt aware of that at the time - and had no reason to suspect it, in my opinion.  
I dont think Mr W has shown that Adrian Flux made errors in arranging the insurance. So 
whilst I fully understand his concerns, and I can see why he thinks its unfair that he finds 
himself in such a difficult situation, I cant uphold his complaint.      
       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman