DRN-4285564
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyd & Whyte Community Broking Ltd trading as Eastside Insurance 
Services (Eastside) didnt provide a policy booklet when she took out her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In July 2022 Mrs Js home insurance company declined a claim for damage caused 
by her pet dog to her garden boundary fence.
Mrs J brought a complaint to this service about the claim being declined. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said the home insurance underwriter had 
acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs J tells us she had never been sent a copy of the policy wording, which includes 
the terms and conditions, by her insurance broker, Eastside. And she had thought 
she was able to claim for the damage caused by her dog to the fence. So a complaint 
was raised about Eastside. 
Eastside say the policy wording was provided to Mrs J at inception of the policy and 
at subsequent renewals.
Eastside provided screen shots showing the attachments tab of its system entries 
for Mrs J. Included amongst the attachments is the full policy wording.
Mrs J has shown pictures of the envelopes showing the postage paid and says the 
amounts paid would be insufficient to include the policy wording.  
Our investigator weighed up the evidence from both parties and was satisfied the full 
policy wording was issued to Mrs J when she took out the policy and at subsequent 
renewals. 
Mrs J asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons. For clarity, in this decision I am only considering the complaint against Eastside, 
and not the underwriters who declined the claim. That has been considered by this service 
under a separate complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J and I appreciate she has strong feelings 
on his case. And if I dont mention a particular point shes made it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it necessary to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Mrs J doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
Ive seen the screenshots Eastside has provided which indicate the documents it has 
provided each year, and it includes the full policy wording. I find this persuasive. 
I can see that amongst the documents Mrs J says she did receive is the policy schedule and 
the August 2022 version says:
This schedule is important. Please keep it in a safe place as you will need it if you need 
to make a claim. This schedule should be read alongside your policy booklet. If you have 
lost your policy booklet and need a new one please contact your insurance Agent
Mrs J tells us she didnt ask for the policy booklet as she thought she had everything she 
needed because shed received numerous pages as part of a bundle of documents, and 
couldnt be expected to know an important part of the bundle was missing. 
Whilst I have some sympathy for Mrs J I think Eastside has done all it reasonable could to 
ensure attention is drawn to the importance of the policy booklet. And if the policy booklet 
was missing at inception and subsequent renewals Mrs J couldve asked for it. 
Mrs J suggests the evidence provided by Eastside is fake. Im satisfied with the veracity of 
the information provided by Eastside. And they have the correct name and address on file 
and there is no evidence to indicate the document wasnt sent at inception and at 
subsequent renewals.
On balance, in the circumstances of this case, Im more persuaded that Eastside has 
provided the policy wording. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman