DRN-2866678
The complaint
Ms R complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited administered and renewed 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R said she tried to contact Hastings during the policy year to change her mileage and get 
a rebate of her premium, but she couldnt get through. When she did, she found that her 
policy had auto-renewed without her knowledge. Ms R was unhappy with this as she didnt 
get the opportunity to shop around for cheaper cover. Hastings upheld her complaint as a 
letter hadnt been sent by post, and it offered Ms R £50 as a gesture of goodwill. But Ms R 
was unhappy with this. She wanted a compensation payment of about £400.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
had sent the renewal invite and confirmation to Ms Rs online account and by email 
according to her stated preference. He saw that Ms R had contacted Hastings about her 
policy within the cooling off period and made changes. So he thought she could have 
cancelled the policy and looked for cheaper cover. And he thought Ms R could have tried 
other means to make changes to her policy. He thought Hastings goodwill offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Ms R replied that she hadnt received the renewal email. She asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R said she tried to contact Hastings to change her previous policy details as she was 
doing less mileage due to not commuting because of the lockdowns. I can understand that 
Ms R was frustrated when she couldnt get through to Hastings by telephone due to high call 
volumes. And by the time she did make contact, her policy had expired. 
But I think Ms R could have used other means to contact Hastings, such as email or online 
chat. I think she contacted Hastings too late as the contract had ended. And so I cant say 
that it needs to give Ms R a rebate for using less mileage. 
Ms R said she didnt receive her renewal invite or confirmation. Hastings agreed that the 
confirmation letter wasnt generated correctly and so it wasnt sent by post. But Ms R had set 
her contact preference as email. And I can see that Hastings sent the renewal invite and 
confirmation to the correct email address. It said Ms R could update her policy documents 
through an App or online. Ms R said she didnt use the App, but she could still have 
accessed her documents though her online account. 
Ms R said she didnt receive these renewal emails. But I cant say that they werent sent. So 
I cant say that Hastings didnt give her adequate warning of her renewal. And so I cant say 
it didnt give Ms R opportunity to shop around. 
In any case, I think Ms R should have been reasonably aware of her annual renewal date 
and so ensured that cover was in place. She could have checked her online account or 
contacted Hastings if she was unsure of this. And she did contact Hastings within the cooling 
off period and negotiated a lower premium. I think Ms R could then have cancelled the policy 
if it didnt suit her needs. 
I think Hastings offer of £50 compensation for Ms Rs renewal experience was fair and 
reasonable as a gesture of goodwill. I cant say that Hastings needs to increase this as I 
dont think it did anything wrong or is responsible for any of Ms Rs losses. Ms R said 
Hastings should pass this sum to charity, which it has said it would do. I dont require 
Hastings to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman