DRN-4020109
The complaint
O a registered charity, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unduly delayed paying money that 
belonged to it. 
O wants the bank to pay the interest it says it lost and compensation for the difficulties 
caused. O is represented by one of its officers, Mr M.
What happened
O decided to close its accounts with HSBC and completed the necessary paperwork on 20 
September 2022. Having given the instruction and the bank having accepted it, O 
understood the closing balance would be sent to it shortly. The overall amount to be paid 
was £515,304.80*. 
In October the funds still hadnt arrived, so O raised a complaint. HSBC investigated and 
issued response on 2 November. It apologised for the delay, explaining the account wasnt 
closed until 6 October and the cheque for the closing balance issued on 7 October. It offered 
O £100 compensation for the delay and said it would raise a new cheque given the original 
hadnt arrived. 
Unfortunately, the second cheque didnt arrive either so O contacted HSBC again in 
November, escalating the matter once more as a complaint. HSBC issued a second 
response on 28 November,  apologising for the additional delay. It offered O a further £100 
and said that a new closing balance cheque had been issued on 22 November which should 
arrive shortly. 
O rejected the compensation. It still didnt have its money and said the amount offered didnt 
cover the interest on the funds or recognise the actual time, expense and effort gone into 
chasing this. It couldnt understand why the bank hadnt remitted the funds electronically 
when it knew the original cheque hadnt arrived back in early October. It considered the 
service woefully poor and referred the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators took a look into what had happened. He noted O now had the 
funds. He didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong insofar as choosing to send the 
money by cheque as that was its standard process and it was simply adhering to it. But he 
accepted something had clearly gone wrong with the overall time this had taken and 
calculated HSBC ought to pay O interest for a period of ten days at 8% per cent per annum. 
This took into account that the bank also had internal service levels to issue a cheque, which 
gave it some time to deal with the requests. He added the bank should also honour its 
original agreement to pay £200 for the inconvenience caused. 
HSBC accepted the investigators view, agreeing to pay ten days lost interest on the funds 
and £200, but said the offer to pay lost interest was made as a gesture of goodwill to assist 
in resolving the complaint. It reiterated its process was to send a cheque in the post and 
ultimately it couldnt be held responsible for any postal delays/problems that may have 
occurred.  
Our investigator put the offer of compensation to O, but O didnt think it went far enough. It 
maintained there was no reason why the bank couldnt have sent the funds electronically 
when it first knew the cheque hadnt arrived. It considered it was out of pocket by rather 
more interest and pointed out that it could have opened a bond paying a favourable rate of 
interest. 
Our investigator asked O for evidence of the bond. O said it didnt have any and was making 
the point to illustrate what it could have done, but had been denied the opportunity through 
the delays. The bond was a relevant factor. 
The investigator didnt change his mind. O requested an ombudsman review everything 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think HSBC has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
O had to chase to get its money. The time taken to deal with this certainly seems to have 
been long, given the request to close the account was made on 20 September and O didnt 
get all of its money until early December. The banks standard process is to send the funds 
by cheque, and I dont think theres anything wrong with that, but I do have some sympathy 
with the point that it could have done more to help and considered electronic remittance.
I appreciate O thinks this should have been in early October, but I think at that point it was 
perfectly reasonable for the bank to say it would raise another cheque. Because there wasnt 
anything obvious to indicate there was a problem with that method. I think when O got in 
touch again in November, it would certainly have been apparent that having tried twice 
something wasnt working. So, I think the bank ought to have done more, such as, engaging 
in considering a different method of getting the money to O. But instead, it appears to have 
defaulted to raising another cheque. 
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied there were some shortcomings in the service and its 
only right that HSBC should do something to put things right. Ill focus now on what this 
means in terms of compensation.
Financial loss
When I reviewed this case, I contacted the bank to understand its offer of compensation as I 
didnt think the figures were clear.
*The first thing I would like to say is that the overall amount that was to be paid to O by 
HSBC was £515,304.80. HSBC has told me that the closing balance cheque was for 
£52,290.60, however second account had £463,014.20. 
It has also confirmed, its offer (with explanation) is as follows: 
Total amount £515,304.80
£515,304.80 * 8% = £41,224.38 (interest on per annum basis)
 £41,224.38 / 365 = £112.94 (daily rate)£112.94 * 10 = £1,129.43 (10 days' interest)
Plus, the £200. 
I realise O thinks it is owed more by way of interest, but I cant agree with its assessment of 
the loss. I say this because, I asked our investigator to request evidence of where the funds 
were to be paid to see what interest it was actually prevented from earning - as this would be 
the actual basis of calculating any financial loss. 
O didnt provide any evidence and referred the investigator back to its previous response of 
the bond it says it could have opened. Ive thought about what its said but this isnt 
persuasive evidence that O would have done anything with the money, other than it sitting in 
possibly another current account. Because I would have expected to see some enquiries 
relating to an application for a bond. So, with this in mind theres nothing to support a claim 
for lost interest to the extent that O is pursuing. 
HSBC has offered to pay O more than the funds would have earned based on the available 
evidence on this case. As a result, theres no basis to require additional monies be paid. But 
in keeping with the spirit of the offer, Im not going to interfere with this, as its been made as 
a gesture of goodwill to resolve the complaint. Given all of this, Im satisfied the offer on the 
interest is a fair and reasonable resolution in all the circumstances, and I would urge O to 
accept it. 
Other difficulties
As I have said, there were undoubtedly shortcomings in the service the bank provided, and 
this led to O having to contact HSBC. However, I consider the offer to pay £200 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Not least because of the offer in relation to the interest.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay O 
£1,129.43 (10 days' interest) and £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman