DRN-1397898
 
The complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat lent to him 
irresponsibly. He says he couldnt afford the loan as he already had other payday loans and 
creditors. He thinks Moneyboat shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Moneyboat provided to Mr H in February 2019. The 
loan was for £600 and Mr H was due to repay it in four monthly instalments of just over 
£222.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that information shouldve been available to Moneyboat that wouldve showed his 
was struggling financially, partly due to his problems with gambling. Our adjudicator didnt 
change her view of the complaint so it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and have explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr H provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr H said he had a monthly income of around £3,000 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of around £2,000. So it wouldnt be unreasonable for MoneyBoat to think that Mr H could 
afford the repayments to this loan. 
Moneyboat confirmed Mr Hs salary as part of its credit checks. And its provided a copy of 
the other information it received about him. This does show that Mr H had some short term 
loans in the past. But it also  shows that he had one outstanding short term loan at the time 
he took the Moneyboat loan. So its perhaps a reasonable assumption that whilst Mr H had 
problems in the past his current financial situation had improved. And Im bearing in mind 
here that this was Mr Hs first loan from Moneyboat and it was for a reasonable amount 
when compared with his income. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Moneyboat was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Hs circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Moneyboat to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Moneyboat did for this loan 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about it.
I can see that Mr H has had some significant problems related to his finances in the past and 
I appreciate this must have been difficult. With this in mind I hope my decision doesnt cause 
him any distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman