DRN-2272242
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mr H says AXA mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In June 1998 Mr H took out the policy alongside a credit agreement he signed up to when 
buying goods in the store. 
Mr H said he had long term health problems when he took out the PPI.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think Mr H wouldve taken out the 
insurance if AXA had made him aware that the policy wouldnt have covered accident and 
sickness claims for any health problem Mr H had when he bought it.
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. Its not in dispute that Mr H had the conditions he 
mentioned. But AXA says that the conditions are usually manageable which wouldnt affect a 
persons lifestyle and would be treated with medication.
AXA says theres nothing to suggest the severity of Mr Hs conditions or how they affected 
his ability to work. 
AXA doesnt believe that the conditions alone would be sufficient to make the policy 
unsuitable as this may have never affected Mr H. 
AXA told us that it required Mr H to provide evidence to show if his conditions were ongoing, 
how this affected his work, any unplanned hospital visits and the impact on his daily lifestyle. 
In conclusion, AXA said, as there was no evidence that Mr Hs medical conditions would 
negate his need for the policy, it didnt agree to uphold his complaint.
So Mr Hs complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mr H enough clear information about the PPI for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for him. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mr H.
It looks like the policy Mr H bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which he knew about in the 12 months before the policy start date or for 
which hed seen a doctor.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Mr Hs medical conditions. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mr H. 
I say this because I think that both his conditions are relatively serious and it looks like Mr H 
was living with the consequences of both conditions when he took out the PPI. 
Both conditions can potentially be life changing and life limiting. 
Mr H told us he had to take medication for his conditions but this wasnt always effective and 
left him feeling lethargic. As a result he had reduced his work hours. He told us he had 
breathing problems and wasnt able to move around freely. Sometimes this led to unplanned 
hospital visits. 
So I think Mr H might reasonably have expected that his health conditions could potentially 
have a significant impact on his day to day life and lead to him needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to his attention, as it shouldve done. And, 
if it had, I think its likely that Mr H wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Mr H agreed to the PPI he was entitled to have the main policy features brought to his 
attention. 
But AXA failed to ask Mr H anything at all about his health on the application he filled in to 
take out the policy  and there was nothing on it which suggested his health might be an 
important issue. 
Nor has AXA shown me that this was something that was discussed with Mr H at the time. 
AXA accepts that Mr H has these conditions. Given that they are both conditions that are 
ongoing, I think Mr H wouldve wanted to know he would be covered by taking out this type 
of cover. 
And if AXA had explained this policy limitation as it ought to have done, then I dont think its 
likely that Mr H wouldve thought the policy was right for him.  
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr H has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year .
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr H that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman