DRN-3323856
The complaint
Mr M complained, via his representative, that he was advised in 2014 by Belmayne 
Independent Financial Services LLP (Belmayne) to change his drawdown provider from 
Legal & General to Alliance Trust (with a consequent change in the underlying investments) 
and that this led him to substantial financial loss.
What happened
Mr M was aged 65 in 2014 at which time he had been a client of Belmayne for several years. 
He had a dependent son who was aged 25.
He had a capped drawdown pension with Legal & General from which he had already taken 
the tax-free cash and a regular income since around 2008.
He had a review of his arrangements in 2014 when he wanted to maximise his income and 
also to be able to provide death benefits for his son. 
Belmayne advised him to switch to a new provider, Alliance Trust (ATS), which would trigger 
a recalculation of the maximum income, allowing him to meet his objective. He was also 
advised to invest in new underlying funds to meet the risk profile agreed at the time. These 
were two tracker funds, one of which invested in a global mix of bonds and equities and the 
other in property securities, with the overall split designed to meet his risk profile. A t the 
point of transfer the arrangement was valued at £221,356 with a maximum income of 
£13,899 pa. 
Following the introduction of new pension rules in 2015, Mr M was no longer restricted in the 
level of income he was able to draw from his pension, provided he converted to the new 
flexi-access drawdown regime. This he did. Having written a letter To whom it may 
concern on 16 April stating that it was intended to be a one-off withdrawal not to be 
repeated (although regular income would continue) Mr M took an initial taxable lump sum of 
£70,000 (£56,007 net) in May 2015. 
Over the following years he took further withdrawals, on top of his regular income, of 
£130,462. By 5 April 2019 there was £5,410 left in the ATS pension.
Mr M complained to Belmayne in 2020, but they did not uphold the complaint and provided a 
detailed response to his representatives defending their advice and actions.
Mr Ms representatives said that he transferred into high-risk unsuitable investments which 
ultimately resulted in loss and that he was at a substantial financial loss since the changes 
in 2014. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and did not uphold it because he thought that 
the advice to switch drawdown providers and to change the underlying funds was 
appropriate. 
Via his representative, Mr M did not accept that outcome and requested that the case be 
referred to me for a final decision. Neither he nor his representatives offered any further 
arguments or additional information.
The issue I have to decide is whether the advice to switch drawdown providers and 
underlying funds was suitable given Mr Ms financial circumstances and objectives at that 
time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that my decision will disappoint Mr M, but I am not upholding his complaint. 
Mr Ms Legal & General drawdown fund was invested in the Managed fund, which could hold 
between 40% and 85% in equities, with the rest in lower risk assets such as cash and 
bonds. The costs were 1.1% a year with a further 0.25% for the fund, giving a total of 1.35% 
a year. 
The adviser recommended that he switch to ATS with 90% invested in Vanguard 
Lifestrategy 40% Equity and 10% in BlackRock Property Securities. The investment costs 
were 0.297% pa, with a further £186 a year for the SIPP wrapper, giving a total of 0.38% a 
year.
There was an initial adviser charge of 1.88%, but the total cost under the new arrangement, 
including the advisers fee, would have been slightly lower year after year. There was also 
the ability to increase the level of income slightly on the smaller tranche of the fund 
(£12,145). While neither of these are material differences compared to the old arrangement, 
they are both advantages of the transfer. 
In the report the adviser considered the possibility of exchanging the fund for an annuity. He 
could get an income of £13,692 pa, broadly the same was his drawdown income, but this 
was a level income with no dependents benefits so I dont think it would have met Mr Ms 
needs. Even though the income would have been guaranteed for life, he would not have 
been able to leave a lump sum to his son. 
There were no guarantees or other benefits that were lost by changing providers. Taking all 
of this into account, I think that the advice to switch from Legal & General to ATS, and 
remain in drawdown, was suitable. 
That leaves the underlying investment funds to consider. As part of the review, Mr M 
completed a risk questionnaire, with the initial outcome being risk group 2 out of 10. There 
was a handwritten note on the risk profile saying:
in order to give the funds a chance to keep pace with charges and growth, then a portfolio 
of 50% growth assets would be acceptable.
This note was signed by both the adviser and Mr M. The risk profile report gave some 
information on how a risk group 2 portfolio (30% growth assets) and the agreed portfolio 
(50% growth assets) had performed historically, showing rises and falls in different terms 
over different timescales and presented as both charts and numbers. So I am satisfied that 
Mr M understood the risks he was taking by holding 50% growth assets.At the time Mr M was taking the maximum level of income from his plan, which was £13,899 
or just over 6% of the fund. He also wanted to be able to leave a lump sum to his son from 
any of the fund that he had not spent, and he could expect to live for many more years. Also, 
he had other income from his State Pension and work. Taking all of this into consideration I 
think that it was appropriate for his portfolio to hold this higher percentage of growth assets 
to give him the potential returns to meet his objectives. 
Mr Ms representative said that the recommended funds were high-risk and unsuitable. 
When compared to the Legal & General Managed fund he was originally invested in, the two 
new funds represented a reduction in risk (a steady 50% in growth assets compared to a 
maximum of 85%). This formed part of Belmaynes analysis in their suitability report in 2014. 
So I dont agree with Mr Ms representatives on this point. The recommended funds, as 
trackers, would mirror the performance of the underlying investments they held, less costs. 
Although values would rise and fall in line with market movements, there was little or no risk 
of permanent loss of capital or of not being able to sell the funds to raise money when he 
wanted to. I find that the recommended funds were suitable for Mr Ms needs and were not 
high risk as alleged. 
Overall, I find that the advice to switch providers was suitable because the new 
arrangements offered the same facilities at a lower overall cost and the new funds were 
more in line with Mr Ms agreed risk profile. So I dont think that the firms advice led to Mr M 
losing money and I am not going to uphold the complaint. 
While it is regrettable that Mr Ms pension fund has now depleted, this was not caused by 
Belmaynes advice in 2014 to change providers/funds. I agree with our investigator that Mr M 
has not lost the money as a result of poor investments or unsuitable advice. The drawdown 
fund has fallen in value because of the £200,000 of lump sum withdrawals Mr M took on top 
of his regular income, but it would not be fair or reasonable in all the circumstances to hold 
Belmayne responsible. Indeed, the adviser wrote to Mr M to advise against taking lump sum 
pension withdrawals to clear his debts, suggesting a different course of action that would 
have helped to preserve the fund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman