DRN-3429120
The complaint
Mrs A (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility. 
What happened
Mrs A approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mrs A was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mrs A was initially given a facility with a £250 credit limit in March 2018. Her limit was 
increased on a further three occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £400 
in June 2018. 
Mrs A had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of January 2022 an outstanding balance remains of £528. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs As complaint. He thought SNC hadnt acted unfairly 
when the facility was initially approved. But he did think SNC shouldnt have increased 
Mrs As credit limit to £340 in May 2018 (20 May 2018 based on the statement date). The 
adjudicator said because Mrs A had taken a significant amount of high cost short-term credit 
totalling more than £1,800. She also had a significant amount of other credit, such as home 
credit and rent-to-buy. 
Mrs As representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mrs A to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Mrs As representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. In his view, SNC had been given more than 
eight weeks to investigate Mrs As complaint following the initial complaint made by the 
representative, then when the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and then 
from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mrs A 
complained through her representative to SNC in December 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs A hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 3 June 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
3 June 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward.
It is now nearly a year later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the 
firm nonetheless disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is 
clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Mrs As complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mrs A wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mrs As expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mrs As facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Mrs A would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mrs As income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mrs As income and expenditure was, after 
completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mrs A could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Mrs A seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC 
wasnt wrong to approve her running credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont 
think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility so I no longer think I need to make 
a finding about what happened when the facility was granted.  
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mrs As facility whilst she 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mrs A to continue to draw down on the facility 
from when the credit limit increased to £340, which the earliest date that couldve occurred 
was 20 May 2018. This is because, by now there were signs that Mrs As overall 
indebtedness was becoming unsustainable for her. Ill explain below why I think this is the 
case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, would be 
intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like  but 
CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mrs As use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mrs As actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. 
Like the adjudicator, by 20 May 2018, I think SNC had seen enough to have realised that 
Mrs As finances had deteriorated. 
When the credit limit was increased in May 2018, SNC had seen read only bank statements 
since December 2017 and it had seen how Mrs A had used and managed the facility since it 
was granted in March 2018. 
From 24 April 2018 until 15 May 2018  shortly before the credit limit increase took effect, 
Mrs A had been advanced over £1,800 of principal towards high cost credit  with around 
50% of that coming from short term credit providers. To me this is a significant amount of 
money to have been advanced in a short space of time.  
It is therefore reasonable for SNC to have expected in the following month a significant 
amount of Mrs As income to go towards repaying this sort of credit  before any other credit 
commitments and living costs were paid. 
On top of this, Mrs A continued to make repayments towards other high cost creditors 
including home credit and rent-to-buy lenders. It seems at the time Mrs A had five such 
agreements. She had at least three home credit loans and two credit agreements from a 
rent-to-buy company which meant she was also committing to spending (on top of the new 
loans) over £150 a week to such companies or around £600 per month. 
By this point in time, SNC was aware, by monitoring Mrs As bank account, that she had at 
least nine other credit commitments to what are considered high cost credit providers. 
Knowing this, I dont think it was sustainable for SNC to continue to allow Mrs A to drawdown 
on the facility let a lone increase her credit limit. When it was clear, that she was now 
significantly over indebted and so any new lending wasnt sustainable. 
Im therefore upholding Mrs As complaint in part, and Ive outlined below what SNC needs 
to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 20 May 
2018.
B) Treat all payments Mrs A has made towards the account since 20 May 2018 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mrs A wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as above repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to come to a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mrs A for the outstanding balance.  E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs As credit file 
from 20 May 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs As complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited trading as Safety Net should put things right for Mrs A as directed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman