DRN-2118398
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc when she attempted 
to withdraw money from her account.
What happened
Mrs P says she tried to withdraw £700 in cash from a local branch of Santander.  She said  
she did this every month and saw no reason why she should not be allowed to do the same 
when she went to her branch on 6th May 2020.  Her complaint included the following:
-That a member of staff asked her what she needed the money for whilst she (Mrs P) 
was stood in a queue outside of the branch
-She was only allowed to withdraw £300 and not the full £700 because that was the 
amount that was classed as essential
-Santander employees offered to pay her bills for her using her account
-That staff did not update her account book for her as they were not allowed to touch 
paper
-The live chat she had with Santander informed her she was allowed to withdraw up 
to £5000 if she wanted to
-The next week she was allowed to withdraw £1000 as a gesture of goodwill.  She did 
not see it as such as it was her money
-She needed the money to pay bills as she is responsible for doing so  her husband 
is ill and is not able to assist her
In its final response to Mrs P, Santander explained the reasons why services were restricted 
on that day  but said it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mrs P disagreed and came to this service.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Santander to do anymore, so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure Mrs P understood that in May 2020 this country was in the early days of a 
worldwide pandemic.  Services were limited to essential only  and that included attending 
banks.  Therefore, she would have been asked about the reason for her attending the 
branch that day.  The fact that this was done outside was because of social distancing 
measures and staff needed to know the reasons before she was allowed into the branch.
Mrs P wanted to withdraw £700  but staff explained that money which had just been paid 
into the bank through the cashiers couldnt be handed back out to customers right away due 
to the potential contamination.  Staff advised they would be happy to arrange a transfer to 
another account  which is where they say Mrs P intended to deposit the money.  But Mrs P 
refused this offer.
I think its clear that staff were working during unprecedented times and I have no doubt, 
were doing their best in a very difficult situation.  The reason for not allowing Mrs P to 
withdraw the full amount was for her own safety.  It may have been something she had been 
allowed to do in the past  and no doubt in the future.  But on that day in May 2020, it simply 
was not possible.
In the circumstances, I have no hesitation in finding that Santander dealt with Mrs P 
complaint in a fair and reasonable way.  I will not be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman