DRN-3708795
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a £40,000 investment he made in a property development scheme 
 the Cogress Redington Road Limited Partnership (the scheme) in August 2015. 
He made the investment through his company; the scheme was promoted (and operated) by 
Cogress Limited (CL) which was an Appointed Representative (AR) of Resolution 
Compliance Limited (RCL); the scheme was based on a specific property development 
project and on a joint venture between the investors and the developer; and the scheme had 
an expected investment duration of 30 months. 
Mr Hs complaint was made to CL and then referred to this service. He says CL:
Failed to carry out due diligence, and failed to provide transparency, with regards to 
the acquisition cost of the property. The schemes documentation stated this as 
£13.5 million but it later emerged that the advertised sale price for the property was 
£9 million. [issue 1]
Misrepresented the scheme. Its sale prospectus did not disclose that the property 
had been purchased from the developer (at a premium), that there was no planning 
permission for its demolition and development and that it had non-residential 
planning status and was in a conservation area (which added complications). It was 
not disclosed that the developer also owned an entity which later lent funds to the 
project (and was repaid those funds from the final sale of the property), and it was 
not disclosed that because the project was heavily dependent on borrowing it was 
riskier for investors. [issue 2]
Negligently operated the project in the scheme. It mismanaged the development 
process (including in the pursuit for planning permission and in its failure to apply 
alternatives in this respect); it applied the wrong business model which, because of 
heavy borrowing, led to erosion of invested capital during periods of inactivity (with 
the grave effect of this concealed from investors until shortly before the project 
folded); it refused to take legal action against external advisers (for the project) for 
their responsibility in the matter; and, overall, it failed to uphold the investors best 
interests. [issue 3]
Fraudulently operated the scheme. Investors lost all their capital, despite this CL has 
never produced audited accounts for the project. This, in addition to the failure of the 
project after four years (and without any development activity undertaken), the 
influence of the developer (including its relationship with CL and conflicted interests), 
sale of the property back to the developer for less than the purchase price and the 
use of an offshore company in the scheme (whose activities have not been 
disclosed), suggests collusion and a cover up. [issue 4]
The management/operation of the scheme was separated and placed into a different 
complaint/case. The present case is only about the promotion and suitability of Mr Hs 
investment.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded that it should not be upheld. 
She found that there is no evidence of RCL recommending the scheme to Mr H or advising 
him to invest in it, that available evidence shows it did no more than promote the scheme 
with information based  not advisory  documentation and that investors invested in the 
scheme on an execution only basis, which meant they made their own decisions to invest. 
For these reasons, she did not consider that RCL had any responsibility with regards to 
suitability of the investment.
With regards to its promotion of the scheme to Mr H, the investigator considered that RCL 
met the applicable regulatory requirement; that the scheme, as explained in its brochure, 
was a high risk Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS); that the regulators 
rules allowed promotion of such a scheme to those in a particular category; that RCL met 
this requirement by promoting it to investors who were either High Net Worth (HNW) 
individuals or were self-certified sophisticated investors with background, education and 
investment experience that aided them to understand the risks and rewards in such 
investments; and that there is evidence Mr H met this threshold, so RCL committed no 
wrongdoing in promoting the scheme to him.
The investigator also considered that there is insufficient evidence to persuade her that the 
information presented for the scheme was anything other than a factual representation of 
what the scheme involved. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. He considered the investigators treatment of the 
complaint to be inadequate and that her findings were based on generalisations which did 
not address the detailed and documented information he submitted. RCL said it had nothing 
further to add in response to the investigators findings, but it noted that we should keep in 
mind the period in which CL was its AR and the point from which CL stopped being its AR 
and stopped being its responsibility. The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs point about the substantive submissions he has made in his complaint  
to CL and then to us. The crux of those submissions is as I summarised above  in 
describing issues 1, 2, 3 and 4  and I acknowledge that he has provided some added 
information (and arguments) elaborating on each issue. I also understand RCLs reminder to 
us about the scope of its responsibility in the case. That is a fair comment. The complaint 
that has been referred to me is about RCL  not about CL, which is a separate entity. 
For these reasons, I consider it helpful to summarise the key events in the scheme and then 
to summarise how they (and the fact that the present complaint is about RCL) feed into 
defining the scope for this decision.
Scheme Events
Available evidence is that the schemes project was launched in September 2015; prior to 
this, it had been promoted to Mr H and he had invested in it in August 2015; it had an 
expected term of 30 months (or two and a half years); the planning application for it was 
submitted in May 2016; in December 2016 the lack of response from the relevant local 
authority prompted the developer to submit a non-determination appeal; the appeal was heard in September 2017 and in November 2017 the planning application was refused; in 
February 2018 permission to appeal against that decision was refused; by December 2018 
the project faced loan repayment demands and a failed refinancing attempt; and in January 
2019 the schemes property was sold.
Scope
I have verified the contents of the other complaint case that was opened in this service for 
Mr H. It features the management aspect of the case, so the investigator was right to say 
that aspect of the case was being considered separately. That case has not been referred to 
me, so I make no comment about it.
It follows that Mr Hs complaint about the management and/or operation of the scheme are 
beyond the scope of the present complaint and of this decision. This puts issues 3 and 4, 
and the matters within and relevant to them, beyond the scope of this decision. For this 
reason, I make no findings on those issues.
The next point to note is about RCLs scope of responsibility. The regulators register says 
CL ceased being an AR for RCL on 6 May 2016, and that from 9 May 2016 it operated as a 
regulated firm in its own right. It follows that RCL cannot reasonably  or factually  be held 
responsible for CLs conduct in the scheme from 9 May 2016 onwards. This appears to 
coincide with the point at which planning application for the schemes property was 
submitted (in May 2016). Even without this finding, that event (and what followed thereafter) 
is beyond the scope of this decision because it relates to the management and operation of 
the scheme  which has been considered separately. However, the fact that RCLs 
responsibility is limited to CLs conduct up to 6 May 2016 reinforces this restriction of scope.
Like the investigator said, there is no evidence of investment advice from CL or RCL to Mr H 
in 2015, and no evidence of a recommendation from either firm to him to invest in the 
scheme. A claim about unsuitable advice also does not appear to feature in Mr Hs complaint 
submissions. For these reasons, I do not find that RCL is responsible for the suitability (or 
otherwise) of Mr Hs investment.
The complaint is about  and the scope of this decision is  the promotion of the scheme to 
Mr H and the matters he alleges in issues 1 and 2 in as far as they relate to that promotion.
Appropriateness of the Promotion
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), in its Handbook, sets out the 
rules firms must follow in conducting financial promotions. COBS also provides the rules that 
ensure non-advisory products or services (including non-advisory services like promotions) 
are appropriate for their clients.
A financial promotion is an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity . 
COBS 4.2 says a firm must ensure its communication of a financial promotion is clear, fair 
and not misleading (including with regards to risks). COBS 4.3 says a firms financial 
promotion must identify itself as such, and COBS 4.12 restricts the promotion of non-
mainstream pooled investments (including UCIS) to specified categories of clients  other 
than clients in those categories such a promotion must not be made to a retail client. As it 
was in 2015, COBS 4.12 permitted a firm to promote such investments to retail clients only if 
such clients fell within a prescribed category(ies). Categories 8 and 9 (for certified and self-
certified sophisticated investor) were such categories. Appropriateness is also covered under the rules in COBS  whereby firms are required to 
determine whether (or not) a client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks involved in the [non-advisory] service or product offered.
In Mr Hs case, the schemes prospectus that was provided to him made clear it was a 
promotion (of the scheme and of the project), and that the scheme was a UCIS  so it met 
COBS 4.3. COBS 4.2 is what Mr H essentially says was breached in issues 1 and 2, so I will 
address this in the next section below. In terms of COBS 4.12 and the requirement to 
establish appropriateness, there is enough evidence from RCL on Mr Hs status, in the 
promotion, as a sophisticated investor and on the appropriateness assessment undertaken 
for him  and neither appears to be in dispute. 
There is a partnership agreement  related to the scheme  signed by Mr H in July 2015 (on 
behalf of his company), which confirms that the promoted investment was based, amongst 
other factors, on the understanding that he was a sophisticated investor. There is also a 
completed corporate [because Mr H acted through his company] appropriateness 
assessment document signed by him in the same month (July 2015) which confirmed his 
previous UCIS investment experience; his previous property investment experience (for 
around 30 years, and in both domestic and overseas properties); his intermediate knowledge 
of investments, including stock market investments (over the course of around 30 years); his 
high risk investor profile and acknowledgement of the risk that he could lose all capital 
invested with CL; his net worth being above £250,000; and his readiness to await 18 months 
or longer for a return on his investment.
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Mr H was a sophisticated client to whom the 
UCIS based scheme (and project) could be promoted, that CL assessed this and the 
appropriateness of the scheme (and of its promotion) at the outset  in and around July 2015 
and before, it appears, he invested his money in August 2015  and that his overall profile 
(as he presented it at the time) made promotion of the scheme appropriate for him.
Issue 1 and 2
The schemes prospectus and the partnership agreement provide reliable evidence on how 
information about the scheme was presented to Mr H at the outset, and/or during its 
promotion, and up to when he signed the agreement. Issues 1 and 2 essentially allege 
misrepresentation of the scheme which induced him to invest in it, and he has referred to 
what he says was misrepresented. I address them, and other observations from the 
prospectus and agreement, as follows:
The prospectus does not state a definitive purchase price for the schemes property. 
In its investment summary and business plan sections, it gave information about 
Estimated costs and the £13.5 million that Mr H has referred to was defined in the 
prospectus as Purchase including associated costs. Given that the document 
presented an estimate on costs and given that it referred to the estimated purchase 
cost being inclusive of associated costs, on balance I do not consider that Mr Hs 
allegation has been established by the actual sale and/or purchase prices that 
existed (or followed). The prospectus did not commit itself to a definitive set of costs 
and the £13.5 million estimation did not relate wholly to the property purchase price, 
it covered other associated costs too.
The same information, in the investment summary section, estimated initial financing 
costs of around £2 million, and the information that followed (about sources of 
finance) stated that, in addition to £6.6 million of equity to be raised, the 
scheme/project required over £18 million of debt financing. I consider that this made 
clear to Mr H, from the outset, that the scheme was significantly leveraged and that there would be a cost associated with that. There was also an inference to be drawn 
from such a level of leverage in the scheme  around three times the level of equity. 
That being the risks that can be associated with such circumstances. Mr H was 
informed, by the prospectus, that the scheme was significantly dependent on 
borrowing, that there was a cost for that and that this carried additional risks. On 
balance, and on this basis, I do not consider that these factors were concealed from 
or misrepresented to him.
The prospectus had a risk warning section which made clear the unregulated and 
high-risk nature of the scheme. Notice was given about the risks of loss of capital, 
illiquidity of the scheme and investments in it, and the high risks (including the risk of 
failure) inherent in property development. Earlier in the document there is also 
reference to the project being subject to planning agreement and I have not seen 
evidence that Mr H was told planning permissions for it were already in place. Again, 
I do not consider that these factors were concealed from or misrepresented to him.
By signing the partnership agreement Mr H confirmed receipt of the information 
document and joint venture document associated with the scheme. Before I refer to 
the latter, I note that the partnership agreement itself contained repeat notice, in 
summary, about the high risks in the scheme and notice that in addition to it being 
unregulated, the scheme also had no operating history. It also included a detailed 
schedule elaborating further on the schemes high risks. The contents of this 
schedule included notices about  the risk of illiquidity and the close ended nature of 
the partnership (with restriction on redemptions within it); the risk of the projects 
budget being overrun; and the potential for conflicts of interest. 
The joint venture document  executed in June 2015  made clear the co-
relationship between CL and its investors (including the offshore entity Mr H refers 
to), on the one hand, and the developer (who also stood as guarantor) on the other. I 
refer to the offshore entity only to note its disclosure (and disclosure of its presence 
and its role in the joint venture  which the document sets out) at the outset, but as I 
said above, this entity has been mentioned in relation to issue 4 and I do not address 
issue 4 in this decision. This document gave reasonably substantial details on the 
plan for running the schemes project, mainly based on no more than reasonable 
endeavours by the relevant parties, and the parties responsibilities and rights in the 
project. The first schedule attached to it provided a summary development plan and 
budget for the project. This included confirmation of the planning permissions that 
were required and that the project intended to apply for, and confirmation that the 
intended property purchase price was around £11.5 million. The second schedule 
summarised key information for the project, including the offshore entitys investment 
of £300,000, the developers investment of £660,000 and an exchange loan from the 
developer of almost £200,000.
Overall and on balance, I consider that the other allegations in issues 1 and 2 fall 
away in the face of the above evidence. There was a reasonable level of 
transparency on the planned costs of the project, including the planned cost of 
acquiring the schemes property; the presence of, input from, intended roles of and 
stake held by the offshore entity and the developer were also disclosed sufficiently  
including the loan associated with the developer; I have not seen evidence of 
misrepresentation with regards to the source of the relevant property; the needs, and 
intentions to apply, for planning permission were disclosed, so nothing appears to 
have suggested that such permissions were already in hand and nothing appears to 
show that they were guaranteed; and the development related risks and uncertainties 
(alongside information on other high risks in the venture) were prominently disclosed. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold issues 1 and 2.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman