DRN-3168483
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Bank, a trading name of Tesco Personal Finance plc unfairly 
recorded a default on his credit file. He would like an apology, credit agencies to be told the 
debt is now settled and the default taken off his credit file.
.
What happened
Mr L says he wrote twice to Tesco Bank in 2019 to advise of a change of address but heard 
nothing back. He says he only knew he had an outstanding debt in 2020 when a debt 
collection company contacted him. He says Tesco Bank never advised him of a potential 
default being put on his credit file.
Tesco Bank said it only received the second letter Mr L sent. In response, it sent a letter to 
Mr Ls new address in order to complete security checks on the change of address, but as it 
had no reply it sent future correspondence ,including  a default letter, to  Mr Ls old address 
as the last recognised one on its records
I issued  provisional decision in which I found:-
There were two key issues here  firstly Mr Ls change of address and secondly the 
default applied to his credit file.
Mr L sent us copies of the two letters he sent advising Tesco Bank of his change of 
address in September 2019. Tesco said it only received the second one. I didnt  
know why that was, but I did believe Mr L sent both letters.
In response to the letter it did receive ,Tesco Bank, wrote to Mr L at his new address 
explaining it couldnt, based on a letter alone, for security reasons, change his 
address. It  asked him to contact the bank. I dont know why Mr L didnt get this letter, 
but I have seen it and it was  correctly addressed so  I did believe Tesco Bank sent it. 
Tesco Bank said ,as it didnt receive a response to its letter asking Mr L to contact 
him or to a letter sent the following day to his old address asking him to get in touch , 
reverted to corresponding using Mr Ls old address. I didnt think that was an 
unreasonable security precaution.
It seemed that post has gone missing from and to both parties. But in Tesco Banks 
case I didnt think its decision, for security reasons, to continue to correspond with Mr 
L at his old address was unreasonable.
In terms of the default Mr L  told us he had no knowledge of this until a debt 
collection company contacted him. He says Tesco Bank never advised him of a 
potential default or of this being recorded on his credit file. But I could see  from 
copies of Tesco Banks correspondence that it sent several letters about arrears on 
Mr Ls account and a default notice over the period September 2019, when Mr L 
seemed to have stopped making direct debit payments to his account, through until 
January 2020 when it defaulted his account. 
Tesco Bank sent this correspondence to Mr L to his old address I didnt feel this was 
unreasonable given it had no response to correspondence at Mr Ls new address. It 
also didnt just rely on post but tried to call Mr L five times to discuss his account in 
December 2019 and January 2020. So I felt Tesco Bank made appropriate efforts to 
contact Mr L to advise him of the arrears on his account, of the consequence so not 
making good his account and of the default.
Mr L could have chosen to contact Tesco Bank by other means and could have also 
arranged for his post to be forwarded to his new address but didnt seem to have 
done so.
Mr L  told us he stopped making payments to his account as, If I understood hm 
correctly, he didnt think there was an outstanding balance. I was surprised by that 
having seen his September 2019 statement which showed a balance of £763.19, a 
not insignificant sum.
I also saw statements which seem to have been regularly sent to Mr Ls  old address 
when he lived there. So,  he would have known from those that there was an 
outstanding balance. 
As Mr L was in arrears on his account, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Tesco 
Bank to default the account .I noted defaults show on credit files but found it  
important that credit files accurately reflect account history. I saw no reason to ask 
Tesco Bank to remove this default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have not , as far as I am aware, had a response from Tesco Bank in relation to my 
provisional decision. But as I found in Tesco Banks favour, I would not have expected it to 
send in any further correspondence for me to consider.
Mr L has responded and is naturally disappointed with my provisional decision and I do 
appreciate that. He hasnt provided any additional information for me to consider. He did say 
we didnt have to write to him again. But we would normally issue a final decision after a 
provisional decision for the benefit of both parties. So I think its appropriate to do so.
Although Mr L hasnt given me any further information to consider, I have reviewed the 
decision I made against all the information I was provided with at the time.
Having done so I am still of the view that Tesco Bank made a sensible decision for security 
reasons to correspond with Mr L at his own address and that it made reasonable efforts by a 
number of different means to contact Mr L about his account.
I think the account statements alone which I believe Mr L would have received when he was 
still living at his old address would have made him aware there was an outstanding balance 
on his account. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco Bank to put a default on Mr 
Ls credit file and I see no reason to ask Tesco Bank to remove this .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman