DRN-4056071
The complaint
Miss A and Mr M complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided poor 
customer service when dealing with the switch of their bank account. 
What happened
Miss A and Mr M says following the switch of their joint bank account from their previous 
banking provider (Bank A) Halifax created confusion by accepting further debits and credits 
to their new bank account, without any reference to them. Mr M specifically makes the point 
Halifax accepted a second debit for £114 to a savings provider after the switch had been 
completed, which caused financial difficulties for them and embarrassment. Mr M says 
Halifax havent acted in line with the terms and conditions of the switcher scheme and wants 
Halifax to acknowledge its mistakes and apologise for this. 
Halifax says the debits made to Miss As and Mr Ms bank account were applied correctly as 
these related to payments authorised by them from the old joint account with Bank A, prior to 
the switch being completed. Halifax says the two payments for £114 to the same savings 
provider were forwarded by Bank A for payment, but the second payment was refunded by 
Bank A and credited to the new joint bank account the following day. Halifax says it has 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the switcher scheme and have done nothing 
wrong here. 
Miss A and Mr M werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax had correctly processed the debits to the new joint bank account 
following the switch from Bank A. The investigator says these were debited as instructed by 
Bank A in line with the terms and conditions applying to debit card transactions presented for 
payment, post the bank account switch completing. The investigator says the second of the 
two £114 payments to the savings provider were also part of those debit card transactions 
and requested by Bank A. The investigator says this second payment was refunded by Bank 
A to the new joint bank account with Halifax the following day. The investigator didnt feel 
Halifax had made any mistakes here.
Miss A and Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Miss A and Mr M to have believed the 
switch of their bank account had been completed, only to see further transactions passing 
through their new bank account with Halifax from Bank A, post the switch completing. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax made any errors when dealing with 
the switch of Miss As and Mr Ms bank account from Bank A. 
Miss As and Mr Ms complaint centres around the difficulties and confusion caused by 
Halifax when it dealt with the switch of their bank account in September 2022. Mr M has 
made the point he has switched bank accounts before but never experienced any issues like 
this. In particular Mr M says a second unauthorised debit for £114 made to a national 
savings provider was debited to the joint account, which put him under financial pressure to 
meet important commitments, resulting in him needing to borrow funds from his family. Mr M 
says this was embarrassing and Halifax should accept it has made mistakes here. 
Both Mr M and Halifax have provided this service with comprehensive information relating to 
this matter, and while that has proved helpful I wont be commenting on every point made as 
I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to 
say I havent considered everything - I have.
The first thing to say here is under the terms and conditions of the switcher scheme, the new 
bank here Halifax, were obliged to honour any debit card transactions from the old bank, 
Bank A, that hadnt been presented for payment before the account switch had taken place. 
So here, the transactions detailed in Halifaxs final response letter to Mr M, were debit card 
transactions made from the old bank account prior to its closure and switch but not 
presented for payment in time. As a result, Bank A then passed these payments onto Halifax 
for payment in line with the terms and conditions of the switcher scheme  so its fair to say 
Halifax correctly debited these transactions to  Miss As and Mr Ms new bank account with 
them. 
Where the confusion lies is the debiting of a second payment of £114 to a national savings 
provider on 5 September 2022, which Mr M says wasnt authorised by him. While I 
understand the point Mr M makes here, from the information provided to this service, it was 
Bank A who requested this second payment from Halifax, so under the terms of the switcher 
scheme it was obliged to honour it. That said, I can see Bank A the following day, credited 
this sum back to Halifax as a debit card refund.
With that in mind, I cant say Halifax can be held responsible for any financial inconvenience 
this may have caused Miss A and Mr M during that 24-hour period, after all it was acting in 
line with its responsibilities under the switcher scheme, as outlined by the investigator in his 
view.
While Miss A and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied that Halifax 
arent responsible for any inconvenience caused by the debiting of these transactions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman