DRN-3427704
The complaint
Ms F complains U K Insurance Limited handled her contents insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In March 2021 Ms F made a claim on her UKI home insurance policy. Her home was 
suffering damp, moisture and leaking foul waste due to problems with a drain. UKI accepted 
her claim. It arranged alternative accommodation (AA) for her until she found a new home. 
UKI agreed to replace some items as damaged beyond economic repair. It provided a cash 
settlement for those. But it said other items, Ms F wanted to be replaced, could be cleaned 
and returned to her. Discussions continued over a number of months with UKI agreeing to 
replace some, but not all, of the disputed items.  
In October 2021 UKI responded to a complaint from Ms F. It said its suppliers had treated 
and cleaned certain items. It didnt consider those damaged beyond repair. It agreed to 
replace some others  including some textiles and a mattress. UKI accepted there had been 
mistakes in how the claim had been handled. It offered Ms F £1,000 compensation to 
recognise the resulting distress and inconvenience. 
Ms F wasnt satisfied with that response so came to this service. She says UKI has unfairly 
tried to return to her items that have been damaged by damp and excrement. She says she 
had to continually battle to have items replaced rather than returned after being treated and 
cleaned. Ms F wants nine additional items of furniture to be considered beyond economic 
repair  rather than be returned to her. She says her and her sons health has been 
damaged by the conditions they have lived in.
In April 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He wasnt persuaded it was 
unreasonable for UKI to return the remaining items to Ms F. He felt the £1,000 compensation 
already offered was enough to recognise the impact of any mistakes UKI made during the 
claim. So he didnt recommend UKI do anything differently. Ms F didnt accept the 
assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F and UKI have provided a range of evidence and comments for this complaint. As this is 
an informal service Im not going to address everything provided here. Instead Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the key issues and evidence. However I would like to reassure Ms F 
and UKI that Ive considered everything provided. 
Ms Fs policy covers her contents against damage caused by water escaping from fixed 
systems and underground drains and pipes. The policy also says, for any damaged item, 
UKI can choose whether to replace or repair it. Whilst the policy allows the insurer that 
choice, Id expect it to replace any item it cant repair in a lasting, effective and safe way.
In this case Ms F feels UKIs repairs to the final list of items isnt effective or safe. Shes 
concerned, because of the environment they spent time in, cleaning them wont be effective. 
In response UKI say the items have been adequately cleaned and sanitised by its supplier. It 
feels the items are suitable to be returned to Ms F. 
Ive considered everything Ms Fs said and provided  including her comments on health. 
However, Im not persuaded UKIs decision to return those items  including a bookcase, 
chest of draws and a nest of tables  is unreasonable. It says the items have been 
adequately cleaned and sanitised. Photos dont show any sign of mould or damp for 
example. Ms F referred to a rug being unclean and rotten. Unfortunately she hasnt provided 
anything, like a photo, to support this. 
Ms Fs said some of these items are too large for her new flat. Thats unfortunate but its not 
a fair reason to require UKI to replace them with a cash settlement. Her policy covers her for 
loss or damage as a result of insured perils. These dont include moving to a smaller 
property. Shes said she only took on a smaller flat because UKIs supplier said she needed 
to find a new property urgently. But ultimately neither UKI or its supplier were responsible for 
what caused her to need to leave the property and find a new home. 
Based on what Ive seen I cant say UKIs acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to 
replace the outstanding items. So Im not going to require it to do so.  
Ms Fs complained about UKIs general handling of the claim. It accepts it caused delays 
with settling the claim and has provided poor customer service at times. I can see it probably 
should have agreed to replace some items earlier than it did. This has caused Ms F some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience  including some financial difficulty at times.  
Ive considered everything Ms Fs said about her experience, but I think £1,000 is enough to 
recognise the impact of UKIs mistakes. Shes referred to contacting UKI about the issue in 
the year before it considered her claim. But from what Ive seen the problem then was a 
failure by her landlord to deal with the drainage issue. Thats not something I can fairly hold 
UKI responsible for. Ms Fs also referred to the health conditions experienced by her and her 
son. These seem most likely to have been caused by the conditions in the property. Again 
thats not something I can fairly hold UKI responsible for - particularly as it wasnt the insurer 
for the building - only for her contents.  
So Im not going to require UKI to pay Ms F any additional compensation or do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Daniel MartinOmbudsman