DRN-3779299
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service provided by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) under his domestic appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr P informed D&G that two ring controls on his hob werent working 
properly and that his oven was also faulty. D&G booked the appliances in for repairs. 
Appointments werent kept by D&Gs engineer and Mr P complained. He has also 
complained that he still hadnt received a new hob.
D&G offered £20 compensation for its service failure, however Mr P was unhappy about the 
failed appointments and the general lack of urgency by D&G in dealing with his claim. Mr P 
considered that £20 compensation was inadequate, and he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and it was her view that D&G should pay Mr P an 
additional £80 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. She 
didnt think that D&G had done enough to support Mr P given his circumstances. She 
considered that Mr P should call D&G to discuss the new hob requirements so the claim 
could be settled as soon as possible.
Mr P remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and considers that further 
compensation is now warranted. In the circumstances, the matter has been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether D&G has treated Mr P fairly and reasonably in 
applying the terms and conditions of the policy. I dont consider that its acted fairly and 
reasonably in all respects and Ill explain why.
Mr P stated that in accordance with D&Gs customer service terms and conditions, he should 
have received a reply to his complaint within 14 days, however this wasnt the case. As to 
the key service issue, he said that there were three failed appointments, in January, 
February and March 2022 and that he wasnt advised of the reasons for these failures. Mr P 
also had a general feeling of lack of urgency, which became more acute as time went on. On 
the first failed appointment, he said hed waited in all day for an engineer to arrive and, as a 
result, hed been unable to collect essential medical supplies.
Mr P said that he was still waiting for the gas hob to be fitted and that there had been no 
contact from D&G since January 2022. Hed initially thought that an apology and a further 
offer of £80 would be acceptable, however he no longer considered this to be sufficient. Mr P 
said hed telephoned the appropriate section about his new hob on two occasions but 
without success. He considered that there was now an apparent refusal to engage with him 
in conversation as to replacement of the hob.
D&G acknowledged that its engineers had failed to attend appointments. It apologised and 
awarded £20 for its failure. It stated that there had been a successful call in January 2022 
and parts were ordered, however all subsequent contact to fit the parts had been 
unsuccessful. Its claim notes recorded that no voicemail or message recording facility was 
available to leave a message with Mr P. D&G also thought that Mr Ps telephone had a call-
screening facility which may have led to some contact difficulties. D&G subsequently offered 
a replacement hob in early March 2022 as the hob has been deemed unrepairable due to a 
chassis fault. D&G added that the customer tells us that he has fitted the part delivered to 
him and the hob is working. 
D&G accepted that in mid-March 2022, there seemed to be some confusion over the offer of 
a replacement hob. As Mr P had no e-mail or mobile telephone, hed asked for all 
communication to be by post. He was therefore advised that D&Gs product replacement 
team could assist. It stated that the claim remained in an open status for the customer to 
receive a replacement hob. It had provided a contact number to Mr P so that his claim could 
be settled. It also confirmed that its product replacement team would continue to try and 
contact Mr P to secure an order.
Having considered all available evidence and the submissions of both parties Ive concluded 
as follows. D&Gs service was not good in all respects. Ive noted that in Mr Ps initial call, 
D&Gs representative had assisted Mr P to understand the appliance cover that he had in 
place. It was a result of this assistance that Mr P realised that he was able to make claims 
for his damaged appliances. The missed appointments were most unfortunate however and 
D&G acknowledged that these amounted to service failures.
There should be no necessity for a customer to have e-mail or mobile phone facilities to 
receive effective communication and service from its insurer. However, I cant say that all 
contact issues were due to D&Gs failures. Its notes provide evidence of some attempts and 
difficulty in contacting Mr P by telephone. In February 2022, it also wrote to Mr P confirming 
that it had attempted to call him in the hope of resolving the matter you have raised. 
Unfortunately, we have been unsuccessful.
I agree with our investigator however that D&G could have done more to update Mr P, 
particularly as there were indications that he was a vulnerable customer. I note that D&Gs 
representative explained that Mr P would need to make a new appointment with its engineer, 
and she gave a telephone number for him to do so. Mr P was clear that the engineers 
telephone number hadnt been given to him previously by D&G. I can understand Mr Ps 
frustration that D&G didnt check the position on his behalf.  
I also consider that D&G could have written to Mr P to explain why appointments werent 
kept and also to confirm what needed to be done to make a new appointment. It could have 
also written and explained the subsequent offer of a replacement hob and what Mr P needed 
to do. I understand that this has now been done. I cant therefore say that D&Gs attempts to 
date to engage with Mr P about a replacement hob have been wholly unreasonable and Mr 
P likewise needs to now re-engage with D&G to reach a solution in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
In all the circumstances, I consider that, in accordance with our guidance, an award of 
moderate compensation to Mr P of £80 in addition to the £20 paid by D&G is appropriate. 
This sum acknowledges the frustration and inconvenience which Mr P experienced due to 
D&Gs missed appointments and often inadequate communication efforts.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to pay £80 in addition to the £20 offered by D&G for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman