DRN-2262455
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr D says National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr D complained to this Service. He said he didnt need PPI because it wasnt suitable for 
his needs; he thinks he bought it because he was encouraged to do so. He concludes the 
policy was mis-sold.
NWB rejected Mr Ds complaint, but it offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI in 
respect of the commission.
Our adjudicator thought the PPI mis-sale complaint should be rejected but our adjudicator 
added that the offer made by NWB was fair.
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be put again. He 
added the following points:
As he was young, healthy, had dual income and never used up his credit limit, he 
says the policy was not suitable for him;
There was an asterisk on the form encouraging him to sign Yes for the PPI;
The commission was an incentive for the PPI to be sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think NWB made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although due to the time which has passed, I can understand why he 
doesnt remember it in this way. I have seen a copy of Mr Ds credit card application. He 
said the asterisk on the form encouraged him to sign Yes to PPI. However, there was 
also a place for him to sign No to PPI. And as he had that basic choice, I think NWB 
made it clear enough that PPI was an optional product.
Mr D says he wasnt eligible to buy the policy because he was young, healthy, had a 
dual income and never used up his credit limit. To decide on this, I looked at the strict 
eligibility requirements of the policy which are: (i) he had to be aged between 18 and 59; 
(ii) permanently resident in the UK and (iii) in permanent paid employment for at least 16 
hours per week for the last six months before the date of the sale. So I think Mr D was 
eligible to buy the policy.
NWB didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.  
Its possible the information NWB gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could 
have been. But having decided he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. I say this because Mr D told us he 
would get less than three months sick pay from his employer and had less than three 
months salary as savings. I think the PPI policy could have paid out on a successful 
claim for longer than and in addition to his sick pay  leaving his savings for other 
expenses. So I think PPI could have been of value to him. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means NWB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But NWB will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
NWB got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because NWB didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NWB has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including what he said about his eligibility for 
the policy, being encouraged to sign for the PPI and the payment of the commission. But, for 
the reasons given above, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs to do
NWB has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NWB should also pay back to Mr D any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
NWB should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the difference between 
what Mr D owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NWB should also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest 
if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman