DRN-2859438
The complaint
Mr C complains that R. Raphael & Sons Limited (RRS) acted irresponsibly when providing 
him a loan that he believed was unaffordable. 
What happened
In September 2015, Mr C took out a loan with RRS for £4500. The loan was to be repaid 
over a period of 48 months with a monthly repayment of £192.52.
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint and said that she felt RRS hadnt carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks when it made the lending decision. And she felt had it 
gone further with its checks at the time, it would have become apparent that it was unlikely 
Mr C was able to repay his loan in a sustainable way. 
She said the credit file information at the time of the loan showed a number of payday loans 
had been taken out by Mr C. Often these loans were for amounts lower than the disposable 
income disclosed on the income expenditure assessment completed by RRS. With this in 
mind, she felt it would have been reasonable to go further with the checks and understand 
why this was the case. Had this happened and Mr Cs bank statements been reviewed, she 
felt it would have been clear the loan was unaffordable as his income was often less than his 
outgoings with a number of gambling transactions.  
Because of this she felt RRS had made an irresponsible lending decision and recommended 
it do the following to put this right:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid to date;
2. If the borrowing is still in place it should reduce the balance of the outstanding capital 
balance of the loan by the amount calculated in step 1;
3. If after step 2, there remained an outstanding capital balance, RRS should ensure 
this isnt subject to historic or future interest and or charges. But if step 2 resulted in 
a positive balance, the amount outstanding should be given back to Mr C with 8% 
simple interest added.
4. RRS should remove any adverse negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
as a result of the interest and charges.
RRS disagreed with our assessment. It remained of the opinion that its review of Mr Cs 
income and expenditure at the time of the application was sufficient to demonstrate if it was 
likely the loan was affordable and could be repaid in a sustainable way. With the purpose of 
the loan being for debt consolidation it also thought Mr Cs disposable income would 
increase as his other lending obligations were condensed with this new loan. The credit file 
gave no indications of any previous issues with credit and Mr C did not give any information 
about the gambling transactions on his account. So it didnt think it was reasonable and 
proportionate to go further with its checks as it felt it had been demonstrated the loan was 
affordable. 
RRS also felt that any information purposefully withheld could mean the application should 
be considered fraudulent as information wasnt disclosed that could have impacted the 
decision. 
Because RRS didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and will 
explain why.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending can be found on our website and Ive
followed this approach when considering Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations relevant at the time when RRS provided Mr C the loan are set by 
the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules. These required RRS to carry 
out an assessment of Mr Cs credit worthiness with reasonable and proportionate checks to 
determine whether he could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way. These needed to 
be borrower focused, meaning consideration should be given to whether repaying the debt in 
a sustainable way could result in difficulties for Mr C.
There is no set list of checks defined as reasonable and proportionate and as these checks 
need to be borrower focused, it follows that this could be different from one person to the 
next. 
RRS completed an income and expenditure assessment as well as a credit check on Mr C 
when his application was assessed. It felt this demonstrated Mr C was able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way and it doesnt think it needed to go further.
Mr C was applying for a relatively large loan bearing in mind that at the time he was a 
student with his pay from work being supplemented by his student loan payments. The 
length of time he was taking the money over and the cost of this ongoing commitment each 
month was also significant with a 48-month repayment term and a monthly repayment of 
nearly £200 a month.
Although the credit file checks didnt indicate that Mr C had previously had an issue with 
meeting his financial commitments, it did show hed recently taken a number of payday 
loans out. And as our investigator pointed out, these were for relatively small amounts and 
lower than what Mr Cs indicated disposable income was from the information supplied on 
the income expenditure form. Indicating that Mr C was spending more than his income each 
month, with this needing to be topped up with the payday loans. With this in mind, I think it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate for RRS to go further with its checks to 
determine whether it was likely Mr C would have been able to afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
With the payday loans indicating Mr C was spending more than his income each month, I 
think it would have been reasonable to ask for his bank statement information to verify his 
income and expenditure. And had these been requested and reviewed, I think its likely RRS 
would have realised that it was unlikely that Mr C was able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way. The bank statements showed that Mr C often spent more than he was earning each month 
and there was a large number of gambling transactions on his account. These transactions 
made up the bulk of this additional spending and demonstrated that Mr C may struggle to 
meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way.  
RRS said that they feel Mr C could be considered to be making a fraudulent application 
when he failed to disclose the information about his gambling transactions. Fraud is a very 
serious allegation and while he did not tell RRS about his gambling, he wasnt asked and it 
didnt request confirmation of his bank statements to understand why he needed the payday 
loans hed taken out ahead of the loan with it. CONC makes is clear that it isnt usually 
sufficient to rely on the self-declared income and expenditure of a consumer and I think on 
this case it would have been reasonable and proportionate for RRS to go further with its 
checks. And had it done, it would have been clear the it was unlikely that Mr C would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And so it follows the decision to lend to him was 
irresponsible.
Putting things right
As recommended by our investigator, RRS must do the following to put things right on this 
complaint.
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid to date;
2. If the borrowing is still in place it should reduce the balance of the outstanding capital 
balance of the loan by the amount calculated in step 1;
3. If after step 2, there remained an outstanding capital balance, RRS should ensure 
this isnt subject to historic or future interest and or charges. But if step 2 resulted in a 
positive balance, the amount outstanding should be given back to Mr C with 8% 
simple interest added*. 
4. RRS should remove any adverse negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
as a result of the interest and charges.
*HMRC may require RRS to deduct tax from the interest payment at the standard rate. If 
RRS deducts tax from this payment it should, upon request of Mr C provide a statement to 
confirm the tax paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against R. & Sons Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman