DRN-3107250
The complaint
Mr T complains about a loan provided to him by TFS Loans Limited TFS Loans, which he 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Mr T with a loan for £7500 on 23 May 2018. The term of the loan was 
54 months and the monthly repayment was for £273.20. If Mr T made all of the repayments, 
he would pay back £14,752.80.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They 
concluded that TFS Loans should have carried out further checks. They went on to say TFS 
Loans didnt make a fair lending decision. So, they upheld Mr Ts complaint.
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
and made fair lending decision when it agreed to lend and gave several reasons why it felt 
this was the case.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr T, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ts creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr T wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr T of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Ts ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did TFS Loans then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that TFS Loans asked Mr T about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it verified Mr Ts income using an online verification tool. It then during a phone 
call, asked Mr T about his expenditure and says it also checked through credit search 
results.
TFS Loans says it verified Mr Ts income as £2383.33 and then after asking about 
expenditure, it recorded an amount of £2117.98. It worked out that Mr T would have £215.48 
disposable income. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said about how it calculated Mr Ts disposable 
income when it agreed to lend to him. I dont think its checks were proportionate. I say this 
because I can see that the amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan 
(54 months) would lead me to think on balance that it should have carried out a complete 
review of Mr Ts finances. I think this is also particularly the case, when I consider what was 
showing on Mr Ts credit search results and the amount of unsecured credit overall that Mr T 
already had obtained. Mr T also declared to TFS Loans that he had a short-term loan, and 
this wasnt showing on the credit search that it had in front of it. I think on seeing this report 
and by what Mr T told it, TFS Loans ought to have asked for further information to seek a 
better understanding of Mr Ts finances, to assure itself that he was in a position to make the 
repayments in a sustainable way. 
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr T with his loan was reasonable and proportionate.
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mr T anyway, based on what it had in front of it. I say this because when I look 
through the credit search TFS Loans carried out; I agree with our investigator when they said 
Mr T was having problems managing his finances. 
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something TFS Loans 
says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Mr T had already accrued a relatively large amount of unsecured debt at the time he applied 
for this loan. He had 4 loans in particular that were of a similar size to this one. In total he 
had outstanding in capital balances around £28,000 in unsecured debt and a monthly 
repayment of over £700. This means that along with a credit card repayment and the 
repayment of this loan Mr T would be potentially committing over £1000 of his monthly 
income to debt repayments. This is a significant amount of his income and committing over 
40% of it ought to have raised concerns with TFS Loans about Mr Ts likelihood of repaying 
this loan over the extended 54-month term.
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that TFS Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr T would struggle to make the repayments in a sustainable way. It was 
unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms. I think 
in these particular circumstances (from the credit information on his report); TFS Loans 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
As Mr T has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong. So, I think TFS Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr T shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr T made should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr T was given 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr T to the date of settlement;If there is an amount left outstanding to repay, TFS Loans should show forbearance 
and look to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ts credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
TFS Loans Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman