DRN-2243490
The complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant havent handled his mobile phone insurance claim fairly. He 
says that the cash settlement theyve offered isnt enough to fairly replace his phone.
What happened
Mr S has a mobile phone insurance policy which is underwritten by Assurant. He made a 
claim in May 2020, after damaging the screen on his phone. He paid the £50 excess and 
sent his phone to be repaired, but after inspection Assurant said it was beyond repair.
Assurant also said they were unable to provide a replacement of the exact model, so they 
offered Mr S a different phone with similar specifications.
Mr S didnt accept that the models offered were a fair replacement for his phone. So he 
asked for a cash settlement. Assurant agreed to this and initially offered £279. They later 
realised theyd made a mistake and increased their offer to £379.
Mr S says that this isnt enough to buy an exact replacement from a reputable seller. Hes 
concerned that the prices Assurant have looked at are from sellers that dont provide a 
manufacturers warranty. And hes concerned these sellers may not have refurbished the 
phones to an acceptable standard.
Mr S wanted Assurant to provide an exact replacement with a Sony warranty, or pay him 
£450 cash so he could pay off his device plan.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought that Assurant had acted fairly and in 
line with the terms of the policy. He said the offers theyd made had been reasonable. And 
he felt theyd acted positively by offering Mr S a number of options to settle his claim.
He also said that the cash settlement Assurant offered was fair, as it matched the highest 
price from several retailers selling this model of phone. He was satisfied that the retailers 
were reputable and offered their own 12 month warranties.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said that a replacement, remanufactured 
phone should be remanufactured by Sony, not just an in-house technician at the retailer. He 
said that hed be prepared to accept Assurants cash settlement, but only if he could keep 
his handset and not pay the excess.
Our investigator said that the replacement phone didnt have to be remanufactured by Sony 
and he was still satisfied that the retailers were reputable. He agreed to put Mr Ss offer to 
Assurant, but their position remained unchanged.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S made a claim under the Damage/Breakdown section of his mobile phone insurance. 
The terms of this section say that Assurant will repair the mobile phone where possible, or 
replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If they cant do 
that, theyll give a choice of replacement models with an equivalent specification.
In this case, Assurant first tried to repair the phone, but their engineer found that it was 
beyond repair. They then looked to provide a like-for-like replacement, but were unable to do 
this. So they offered a choice of similar replacement models, which Mr S rejected. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that the actions taken by Assurant 
were in line with the policy and were reasonable attempts to settle the claim. 
When Mr S rejected the replacement models offered by Assurant, they offered him a cash 
settlement instead, so he could purchase a refurbished model of his phone. This isnt 
something that the policy terms provide for. But it was a further attempt by Assurant to settle 
the claim to Mr Ss satisfaction.
I think it was reasonable, and indeed a positive action, for Assurant to make this offer 
beyond what the policy provides cover for. So the only thing that remains for me to decide is 
whether the amount offered was fair or not.
Mr S says the retailers Assurant have quoted for refurbished models of his phone, wouldnt 
be considered as reputable. He says that they should look at the prices for well known 
companies, such as the one where he originally bought his phone.
I can understand why Ms S is concerned, as the dealers Assurant got quotes from arent 
large high street names and they only trade online. So Ive looked into the three firms for 
him.
Although they only trade online, all three have very positive reviews from a large number of 
customers. One of the firms in particular have received over 144,000 reviews on Trustpilot, 
and have a score of 4.7 out of 5. All three sellers also offer 12 month warranties on their 
phones. So I think its reasonable for Assurant to consider these are reputable dealers.
Mr S says that refurbished phones should only be refurbished by the original manufacturer. 
But nowhere in the policy terms does it say this. And I dont think this is a reasonable 
expectation. So Im satisfied that the interpretation of the word used by Assurant is fair.
The three quotes obtained by Assurant were for £264.99, £299.99, and £379.95. Assurants 
offer was in line with the highest of these prices, at £379. Im satisfied this is a fair offer. 
I also think its reasonable for Assurant to require Mr S to pay his excess and return his 
handset before his offer is paid. The excess is clearly explained in the policy terms and 
applies in this situation. And as the cash settlement is for Mr S to buy a replacement phone, 
he cant keep the original as well.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman