DRN-2259763
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim, after they were forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr C, director of T, has complained on Ts behalf. 
What happened
T holds a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. Mr C claimed on Ts 
policy after they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19.
Liberty Mutual said that, under Ts policy, T would only be covered if theyd closed due to an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at their premises. Liberty Mutual said the policy wouldnt provide cover 
for Ts business interruption if it was due to the national coronavirus crisis, rather than an 
outbreak at the premises. As T had closed as a result of a Government Act in response to a 
national pandemic, Liberty Mutual turned down Ts claim.
As Mr C was unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response, he brought Ts complaint to our 
service. He said the companys location meant large crowds had passed through in the 
weeks before they closed, so its highly likely they would have had a someone with Covid-19 
at their premises. He said it was unfair to turn down the claim, when they couldnt prove that 
anyone on the premises had it due to a lack of testing at that time. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
Liberty Mutual had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if it had closed due to there 
being a case at the premises. And while there might have been a case at the premises, the 
reason T closed was because of the Government Act in response to a national pandemic.
Mr C didnt think this was a fair outcome given the circumstances of the outbreak. He also 
referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. Mr C asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact the pandemic and the Governments related actions had 
on T. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ts complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Liberty Mutual has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.
There is an extension to the policy with the heading Compulsory closure. This covers:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease, but I dont think this 
extension covers Ts claim. I say that because the policy requires the compulsory closure of 
T to have been because of the discovery of the disease at the premises. 
I appreciate its unlikely that T would have been able to show someone at their premises had 
Covid-19 due to a lack of testing at that time. However, Mr C hasnt indicated that T closed 
following someone at the premises being unwell, but instead that they closed due to the 
requirements of the Government Act. Moreover, even if T had closed due to someone on the 
premises having Covid-19, that would only have been to allow for cleaning and not the 
longer-term closure of the premises required by the Government Act. 
While the location of T means there may well have been someone on the premises who had 
Covid-19, Mr C has said that he closed the premises as a result of the Government imposed 
lockdown. So, I dont think their claim is covered by this extension. 
Mr C has also referred to the FCAs test case. However, the terms in Ts policy arent ones 
that are being considered in that case. So, the outcome of the test case wont impact my 
decision. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C. But having considered this matter
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Liberty Mutual to pay the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman