DRN-2418959
The complaint
Mr B complained about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance settled a 
claim against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was in an accident which he admitted was his fault. The third party made a claim under 
his policy which Churchill settled. Mr B said they did this without his consent, and they paid 
too much for the claim. He felt that they hadnt acted in his interests and theyd been party to 
a scam.
  
Churchill accepted that they hadnt kept him updated as they should have, and so offered 
him about £80 in compensation. But they thought that they were right to settle as they did on 
the evidence they had. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Churchills decision to settle the claim was reasonable and in line with the policy, and that 
their compensation offer was fair. Mr B disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The third partys claim was for car repairs and car hire cost during the repair. Mr B accepted 
responsibility for the accident. But he said it caused only minimal damage to the third partys 
car. He sent Churchill photos of that damage. He wanted to see the third partys claim costs 
and didnt want Churchill to pay them without his permission. But Churchill settled the third 
partys claim without telling him. 
Mr B said the repair costs were overinflated and the repair shouldnt have taken so long, so 
the car hire period should have been shorter. He got a garage estimate of his own for the 
repair work, which he said showed that the repair could have been done cheaper and in less 
time. He also thought that Churchill should have had their own independent assessor inspect 
the third partys car. 
Mr Bs policy says in general condition 3 that We are entitled totake over and carry out 
the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name.
This is a common term in motor insurance policies. It allows Churchill to settle any claim 
against the policy as they see fit, whether Mr B agrees with it or not. And, as the investigator 
explained to Mr B, we dont decide about the value of any car damage, as that is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurers and engineers.
Our role in these complaints is to determine if the insurer has considered all the available 
evidence and whether they can justify their decision to settle a claim. We only consider 
whether a business has acted in line with their policy terms, and whether they reached their 
settlement decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
Under his policy Churchill werent obliged to obtain Mr Bs consent to any settlement. They 
could make their own decision. Churchill accept that they didnt tell him before settling the 
third-party claim. However I can see from Churchills file notes that they did tell him in about 
late September that if everything was OK with the third party claim they would settle it. So I 
think theyd given him at least some warning of that. In any event, even if it might have been 
better customer service for Churchill to have told Mr B before they settled, they werent 
required to do that either, since under his policy they could settle whether he'd agreed or not. 
   
Ive looked at Churchills file and its clear that before they settled the claim, they looked at 
the independent assessor report on the cars damage that the third partys representative 
had arranged, and a garage repair estimate. Churchill passed those, together with Mr Bs 
photos of the cars damage, to their internal engineer for review. 
Their engineer considered that the repair costs were consistent with the cars damage and 
that they and the hire car costs were fair and reasonable. So Churchill paid the claim. Mr B 
thinks that Churchill should have got their own independent assessor to inspect the third-
party car too, but I think that what Churchill did was enough. They are entitled to rely on an 
independent report, and they did review it before deciding to accept it. And I think that 
Churchill explained all of this to Mr B which was fair of them. 
 
Mr B found from the third party that the third party had used an accident management 
company to make their claim and he felt that would have inflated their claim. He thought that 
Churchill s processes had made them implicit in this and created a conflict of interest. But 
explained to Churchill that their usual claims department had handled the claim in line with 
their usual procedures, and Ive seen nothing to persuade me of any conflict of interest or 
wrongdoing by Churchill. And as Ive shown above, Churchills engineer reviewed the claim 
and didnt think that it was inflated. 
An insurer has a duty to deal with a third party claim against one of their policies and they 
have no control over how the third party goes about making the claim. I can see that Mr B is 
unhappy that Churchill didnt involve him in the settlement decision, but I am satisfied that 
they did act in his interests. They dealt promptly with a claim against him and they did what 
they were required to do under the policy. 
I think that Churchill did consider the whole matter properly before settling. Based on the 
evidence they had, it was reasonable for them to do that. And they explained their reasoning 
to Mr B. So I dont think theyve done anything wrong there. 
I think that the amount that Churchill have offered in compensation for their accepted 
communication issues was reasonable in the circumstances. I would expect them to pay Mr 
B that compensation amount they offered if he wishes to accept it now, but I dont ask them 
to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
