DRN-2712851
The complaint
  Mr B has complained that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
  UK Credit provided Mr B with a guarantor loan of £4,000.00 in May 2018. This loan had a 
36-month term with a monthly repayment amount of £211.18. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £7602.48 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that UK Credit hadnt carried 
out proportionate checks. He concluded that if it had done so, it would have seen that the 
loan was unaffordable and the repayments not sustainable. UK Credit disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are overarching questions that I 
need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These questions 
are:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
B would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
UK Credit provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required UK Credit to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UK Credit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that UK Credit had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr 
B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were UK Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
UK Credit says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to 
providing him with this loan and discussed this with him on the phone. It says it also carried 
out a credit check. UK Credit verified Mr Bs income by asking for and checking two payslips. 
It says it worked out an average amount of £3980. UK Credit then worked out Mr Bs 
expenditure would be around £3248. It arrived at this figure by asking Mr B about his 
expenditure on the phone. It then says it cross checked his credit report. It also used figures 
provided by The Office of National Statistics. It provides an average expenditure figure for 
someone living in a similar situation and location. UK Credit took Mr Bs declaration about 
his proportion of the rent of £900, then added ONS data for regular expenditure of £1237.18 
and then added an amount for credit commitments of £899 (minus loan repayments that Mr 
B said he was looking to consolidate) and then the monthly loan amount for this loan. UK 
Credit say it would have left Mr B with disposable income of £731.93. It says its assessment 
showed that the loan was affordable for Mr B.
I have looked through the credit search results UK Credit had in front of it when it agreed to 
lend and have also read its final response to Mr B. It has said within its final response that 
Mr B had six outstanding short-term loans at the time. I have checked what it has said 
against the credit search results it had in front of it and can see the 6 short term loans that it 
is referring to. These six open short-term loans taken out, on their own should have given 
UK Credit concerns that he had become reliant on this type of credit. I note that it says it had a conversation with Mr B about this and that he had given it a plausible reason why he had 
taken these loans out. But as a responsible lender I dont think it should have just taken what 
Mr B had said about this at face value on this occasion, due to the amount of loans in 
question on the credit report and due to the amount and length of the loan he was asking UK 
Credit for. I think it should have carried out further checks to verify Mr Bs expenditure and to 
verify what he was saying in order to make sure that he could sustainably repay the loan 
repayments over the term of the loan.
I would also agree with our investigator, that UK Credit should have done more rather than 
rely on ONS data to estimate Mr Bs living expenses. The FCA permits the use of statistical 
data to estimate a prospective borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that this is 
the case but its also fair to say it also states that it is unfair to rely on such data where it is 
unlikely to be reasonably representative of the prospective borrowers situation.
UK Credit used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the average 
consumer, to estimate Mr Bs living expenses. But UK Credit knew, when it lent to Mr B, that 
it was providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested they fell outside this average 
portfolio. I dont think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to reflect the existing 
commitments in Mr Bs position is fair, reasonable and proportionate. And so, I conclude 
using ONS data here was not proportionate and further checks were required to find out 
what his actual spend was. 
In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks UK Credit carried 
out before providing Mr B with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to UK Credit that Mr B 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told UK Credit that Mr B would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
UK Credit was required to establish whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Mr B has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before this loan 
was granted. Ive carefully considered the information provided within these statements. 
Having done so, its clear Mr B was gambling significant amounts of money at the time he 
asked for this loan. He also had other short-term loans active at this time that did not appear 
on its credit search. In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that further checks would 
have shown UK Credit that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without 
borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
UK Credit has told our service it provided a loan at a lower rate of interest, so that Mr B 
could consolidate his debts and pay less on his credit commitments each month. I 
acknowledge what it has said here. But as I have just concluded, it if had carried out further 
checks it would have seen that Mr B had other loans that it hadnt accounted for and also 
significant spend on gambling transactions that would have shown it that he was having 
problems managing his finances that a partial consolidation wouldnt have solved.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown UK Credit that Mr B would not have been able to sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that UK Credits failure to carry out proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly 
providing this loan to Mr B.
So, it follows that I currently think that UK Credit needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for UK Credit to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made, direct to UK Credit, should be deducted from the new starting 
balance  the £4,000.00 originally lent. 
If Mr B has already repaid more than £4,000.00 then UK Credit should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
If the amount repaid is less than £4000.00 then both parties should look to agree a 
payment plan. I would like to remind UK Credit of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance when it does this.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about UK Credit Limited and 
it now needs to put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman