DRN-3185803
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed her account to become 
overdrawn and then sent it to collections and registered a default against her.
What happened
Miss L complained to Barclays that it allowed her account to become overdrawn in 2017 by 
allowing her to withdrawal benefits when she didnt have sufficient funds in her account. She 
says Barclays benefited from its mistake by charging fees on her overdrawn account. 
Barclays say no error was made on its part. It says generally it wouldnt allow a withdrawal to 
take place if it would put an account in overdraft, but it made an exception because Miss L 
wanted to withdraw her benefits.  Barclays say that Miss L was informed her account would 
become overdrawn if she made the cash withdrawal but she wished to proceed anyway.
Barclays didnt charge any fees on the account and it was passed to collections when Miss L 
failed to get in touch and repay the overdraft. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ls concern and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Miss L fairly and so didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. 
Miss L disagreed she wants the debt cleared and the default removed. So the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss L has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss L back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
So the question I have to ask is whether Barclays did anything wrong in allowing Miss L to 
withdraw her benefits and let her account to become overdrawn, as well as sending her 
account to a third party debt collection agency and registering a default when she didnt pay 
back the overdrawn balance on her account. 
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Barclays treated Miss L 
unfairly or did anything wrong. I can see from Barclays records Miss L was told her account 
would become overdrawn if she withdrew the amount of the benefits paid in, but that Miss L 
still wished to proceed. And I can see from Miss Ls bank statements for the period in 
question that although Barclays allowed Miss Ls account to go into unarranged overdraft  it 
didnt charge Miss L anything for this service. So I cant say Barclays did anything wrong 
here or made a mistake.
Following Miss Ls account going into overdraft I can see that Barclays sent a number of 
letters to the address it had registered for Miss L notifying her that her account was in 
arrears, and that payment needed to be made to clear the debt and what could happen to 
her account if the debt wasnt cleared. 
As Miss L didnt respond or react to these letters Barclays closed her account with an 
outstanding debt, registered the default and sold the debt to a third party.  
Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to make the decision to close Miss Ls account as it gave 
Miss L plenty notice of what was to happen if she didnt take appropriate action. 
And I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in selling her debt to a third party collection 
agency when she failed to pay back what she owed it  Miss L had the benefit of the money 
and I think its reasonable for Barclays to put steps in place to recover this as well registering 
a default on her credit file.
I understand that Miss L is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit report, but
Barclays has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Barclays treated Miss L unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss L  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman