DRN-3322669
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money failed to raise a 
chargeback claim or consider section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim in respect of faulty 
fragrance.
What happened
Mr P purchased the fragrance online on 19 December 2020 at a cost of £269.99. When he 
received the fragrance he says he thought that it was bogus. He explained he had to open it 
to reach this conclusion. Mr P says he complained to the seller within 28 days and has 
produced undated texts in support. He also provided a copy of a communication from the 
merchant asking for a review dated 16 January. I have noted that he has also provided this 
service with copy of a message he sent to the merchant dated 25 January 2021 in which he 
states:
I purchased a [X] fragrance at a much reduced price from you compared to authorised 
distributors of [X] fragrances. I not [stet] 100% convinced the product is new or even genuine 
as it does not last or have the same strong scent as the previous purchase I made from [Y]. 
It possibly could have been stored incorrectly or possibly old stock.
The merchant did not accede to his request to return the fragrance and he contacted Virgin. 
It said that under the terms and conditions Mr P was unable to cancel an order where the 
seal had been broken and so it did not attempt chargeback. It also didnt consider section 75 
was appropriate as it had no evidence that there had been a breach of contract. However, it 
offered compensation of £30 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommended that it be upheld. He investigated and discovered that 
the fragrance didnt come with a seal. However, he was satisfied that there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr P had sought to return the goods within the 28 days set out in the 
terms and conditions.
He also said that Mr P had told us that the fragrance does not last on the skin like you 
would expect which suggested that the bottle had been opened and used. He didnt think 
Virgin had done anything worn in not making a chargeback claim or considering a s75 claim.
Mr P didnt agree and asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues for me to consider, was Virgin right to refuse to make a charge back 
claim and secondly was it right to reject the idea of a s 75 claim.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
Virgin was not obliged to make a chargeback and it exercised its right to conclude that the 
chances of success were remote. It was aware that Mr P had sought to return the fragrance 
and the merchant had refused. There was every reason to believe that the merchant would 
challenge the chargeback.
I note much has been made of the issue of whether the bottle was sealed. However, it is 
clear from Mr Ps statement to both Virgin and this service that he opened the bottle and he 
used the fragrance. The merchants terms and conditions do not allow for the return of used 
goods.
I am also satisfied that neither Virgin nor this service has been given suitable evidence 
showing that Mr P tried to return the goods within 28 days. His communication dated 25 
January reads as if it was the first contact with the merchant and in the absence of evidence 
to the contrary I cannot safely conclude Virgin was wrong.
The second leg of the complaint concerns s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 offers 
protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or 
services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of 
the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the requisite links are in place so the issue is whether there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. Mr P says that the fragrance didnt smell as it should and it 
didnt last. The merchant said it had supplied a genuine product and it had been stored in a 
safe and secure location so it hadnt been tampered with.
I have not seen any independent evidence to show that the fragrance was not as advertised 
and that makes it difficult for me to conclude there had been a breach of contract. In short I 
have to rely on Mr Ps view that it didnt smell like a previous bottle he had bought and it 
didnt seem to last as long. While I dont doubt Mr Ps belief this is not sufficient to allow me 
to require Virgin to refund his cost. On balance, I dont consider the evidence which has 
presented to me allows me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay £30 if it has 
not already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman