DRN-2907291
The complaint
Ms L has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision 
to terminate her claim.
What happened
Ms L had a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
L&G. This would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period if Ms L was unable to work 
due to illness or injury.
Ms L became unwell in 2014. Following investigations, she was diagnosed with fibromyalgia 
and chronic pain syndrome. She made a claim on her policy which L&G accepted. In 2018, 
Ms L started to work part time and L&G continued to pay a partial benefit. 
L&G reviewed and terminated the claim in February 2020 on the basis that Ms L no longer 
met the definition of incapacity.
Ms L appealed the decision and complained to L&G. Unhappy with its response, Ms L 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had done anything wrong as it 
had shown, through a functional capacity assessment (FCA), that Ms L was able to carry 
out her duties on a full time basis and so she no longer met the definition of incapacity.  
Ms L disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Her diagnosis has not been changed, she is still suffering from pain and her condition 
has got worse. Since receiving L&Gs final response letter, she has had flare-ups due 
to stress which has resulted in time off.
Ms L says she has been a victim of discrimination as a result of her invisible illness 
and her mental health has suffered significantly.
Ms L says she is unable to work full time and feels the decision has been made on 
her not being able to work at all. 
She is able to manage her illness whilst working part time and hasnt attempted full-
time work to know whether she would be able to manage.
If she did work full time, she wouldnt have enough time to recover following a trip 
which would result in flare-ups and the need to take constant pain medication. And 
so Ms L would have no quality of life  she would lose control of her illness and she 
would be unable to work at all. 
In relation to social media and her photographs, they do not paint a true picture  
they dont tell the reality of her daily struggles and do not prove that Ms L is able to 
work full time.
She has provided a doctors letter to confirm her conditions and this should be 
enough.
The FCA was conducted in an hour by someone that doesnt know Ms L or her 
condition personally.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. When an insurer terminates a claim, it needs to show 
the definition of incapacity is no longer being met.
The policy defines incapacity as:
own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period.
suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury 
so that he is unable to undertake any occupation appropriate to his experience, 
training or education.
The policy says payment of benefits will stop if the insured member ceases to be 
incapacitated. 
Ive reviewed the key medical evidence relevant to my decision, keeping in mind that the 
onus is on L&G to prove that Ms L no longer meets the definition of incapacity in order for it 
to terminate a claim. 
the key medical evidence 
February 2020  L&G arranged for Ms L to undertake an FCA with a physiotherapist. The 
report concluded there was no reason why Ms L couldnt work full time through a gradual 
increase in hours. 
April 2020  a letter from Ms Ls GP in which he confirms Ms L had been diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia and chronic pain syndrome. The GPs letter said Ms L had been off work since 
2014 and was still unable to return to work.
June 2021  a further letter from Ms Ls current GP which confirms Ms Ls diagnosis of 
fibromyalgia and chronic pain which affects Ms L on a daily basis.
other evidence 
L&G reviewed Ms Ls online activities and photographs which showed that she had taken 
part in fashion competitions, modelling and a TV programme.Having considered all of the above evidence, I dont think L&Gs decision to terminate the 
claim was an unreasonable one. The FCA concluded Ms L was able to work in a full time 
role. Her GPs letter dated April 2020 doesnt provide sufficient detail to contradict or 
disprove the conclusions in the FCA. The GP seems to be under the impression that Ms L 
hasnt worked since 2014 when in actual fact, she has been working in a part time role since 
2018. And so although the evidence shows that Ms L is still unwell, it doesnt show that her 
illness is preventing her from working full time. The policy requires evidence that Ms L is 
unable to work due to her illness. A diagnosis by itself isnt sufficient. And the FCA dated 
2020 concludes Ms Ls illness isnt preventing her from working full time following a series of 
tests. 
The GP letter from June 2021 does go into some further detail. But this letter was written 
after L&G terminated Ms Ls claim and so this wasnt available at the time it reviewed it. 
Ms Ls comments
Ms L has provided a number of comments which I have carefully reviewed and considered. 
Ive summarised those which I consider to be key to my decision here. 
Her diagnosis has not been changed, she is still suffering from pain and her condition 
has got worse. Since receiving L&Gs final response letter, she has had flare-ups due 
to stress which has resulted in time off.
Ms L says she has been a victim of discrimination as a result of her invisible illness 
and her mental health has suffered significantly. Ms L says she is unable to work full 
time and feels the decision has been made based on her not being able to work at 
all. 
Ms Ls diagnosis isnt in question. And Im sorry to hear that Ms L has had further flare-ups. 
The policy requires the medical evidence to demonstrate that Ms L is unable to carry out the 
material and substantial duties as a result of her illness. A diagnosis of an illness by itself 
isnt enough. I would expect a medical expert to explain why Ms L is unable to work full time 
as a result of her illness. And I havent seen that her GP has provided an explanation about 
why Ms L can work part time but not full time. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms L feels discriminated against. Ms L says the medical conditions she 
lives with amount to disabilities under the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA). Under the EqA, she 
is protected against discrimination.
Its not the role of our Service to make a finding about whether the actions of a business 
amount to discrimination  or whether it has breached the EqA. Thats an issue for the 
Courts. However, I can take the EqA into account, where relevant, when considering 
whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in a particular case. 
For the EqA to be a relevant consideration in this case, Ms Ls medical conditions would 
need to amount to disabilities as defined by the EqA. But even if they did, and the EqA was a 
relevant consideration, Im not persuaded L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Thats because, for the reasons set out in this decision, Im satisfied that L&G has applied 
the terms and conditions of the policy fairly - by arranging an FCA, reviewing the relevant 
evidence and ultimately terminating the claim based on everything it had. And I dont think 
the nature of Ms Ls medical conditions meant that L&G shouldve reasonably done anything 
differently here.She is able to manage her illness whilst working part time and hasnt worked full time 
to know whether she would be able to manage.
If she did work full time, she wouldnt have enough time to recover following a trip 
which would result in constant flare-ups and the need to take constant pain 
medication. So Ms L would have no quality of life  she would lose control of her 
illness and she would be unable to work at all. 
I havent seen that Ms L has provided L&G with any medical evidence to confirm she isnt 
able to work full time. Ms Ls GP in 2020 seemed to be under the impression that she hasnt 
worked at all where she has in fact shown that she is able to work part time. Ms L has 
provided general medical information about her illness but I havent seen that she has 
provided L&G with any specific evidence from her doctor or specialist commenting 
specifically on her inability to work full time. 
In relation to social media and her photographs, they do not paint a true picture  
they dont tell the reality of her daily struggles and the photographs do not prove that 
Ms L is able to work full time.
I agree that photographs alone arent sufficient to prove that Ms L is unable to work full time. 
But L&G is entitled to review online information as part of its review.
She has provided a doctors letter to confirm her conditions and this should be 
enough.
As set out above, confirmation of a condition by itself isnt sufficient. Ms L has to 
demonstrate that she meets the definition of incapacity and for this, I would expect to see 
comments about her conditions and how they affect her ability to work full time and why. 
Ms Ls letter from her GP dated 14 June 2021 hadnt been sent to L&G and it wasnt 
available at the time L&G reviewed the claim. The previous evidence didnt provide any 
sufficient or persuasive reasons about why Ms L was only able to work part time. L&G has 
confirmed that the GPs letter of June 2021 is retrospective and so it wouldnt be considered.
The FCA was conducted in an hour by someone that doesnt know Ms L or her 
condition personally.
An FCA is an independent examination used by insurers and will usually be someone that 
doesnt personally know the individual being assessed. I would expect the assessor to have 
knowledge of Ms Ls condition and having read the report, its clear that the assessor did 
have this information. I havent seen any further evidence to contradict or disprove the FCA 
and so I dont think this evidence can be ignored or discounted. 
I can understand why Ms L feels disappointed. And she says her condition isnt well 
understood and the FCA left her tired for days afterwards. I dont dispute that Ms L is 
suffering with an illness. But I havent seen that L&G has been provided with satisfactory 
medical evidence to show that Ms L would continue to be unable to work full time as a result 
of her illness. And so I dont think L&G has unfairly terminated Ms Ls claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman