DRN-3724591
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) declined her claim 
for damage to her sofa under her furniture protection plan insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim to Fortegra about damage to her sofa. She said there was damage to 
the piping on the left-hand seat cushion. She said she wasnt sure when the incident 
occurred or how but thought it may have been damaged from her dog jumping up or from 
her grandchildrens shoe buckles. 
Fortegras report concluded that the damage had been caused by general wear and tear and 
wasnt a result of an individual incident of accidental damage. It declined to uphold the claim 
and Mrs S complained about this. Fortegra remained of the view that the policy didnt cover 
damage caused gradually over a period of time and there wasnt evidence of a sudden 
incident of accidental damage being caused to the furniture. Mrs S then referred her 
complaint to our service as she wanted Fortegra to arrange for the sofa to be repaired.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Her view was that Fortegra hadnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ss claim. She noted the vinyl piping on the front of the seat 
is showing cracking and peeling in various places, which would suggest that it isnt a result 
of a one-off event to the sofa. She therefore thought it was reasonable for Fortegra to take 
the view that the damage was gradual and to decline the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mrs S remains unhappy with the outcome and the matter has been referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether Fortegra has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Ss claim in the light of the terms and conditions of her policy. I conclude that it 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably, and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Ss disappointment, she feels that the damage to her sofa was not 
caused by general use. She was also unhappy to find out the piping was vinyl and not 
leather as she says when the furniture was sold to her she was told it was an all-round 
leather trim the same as used on car interiors and was hard wearing. I am unable to make 
any finding on the latter point as this complaint is against Fortegra the underwriter of the 
policy and it didnt sell the furniture to Mrs S.
I note that the policy provides cover for individual incidents of accidental staining and/or 
accidental damage it will not cover for wear and tear. 
Fortegras report referred to chunks taken out of the piping which has a vinyl covering. The 
vinyl covering has broken down and cracked and peeled due to wear and tear on the back of 
the consumers legs. It says this is not a one-off incident but an accumulation over a period of 
time. 
Mrs S disagreed that the damage is caused by wear and tear. She says she doesnt know 
when exactly the damage occurred and has presumed it was caused either by her dog 
jumping up or the grandchildrens shoe buckles. However, she agreed that the damage 
happened over time and it got worse from when she first reported it. 
Having looked at the photographs of damage and considered evidence supplied by Fortegra 
and Mrs S, Ive noted that there are a few areas of damage along the piping of the left-hand 
seat of the sofa. The photographs support the observations in Fortegras report that the 
piping has broken down and is cracking and peeling. Due to the different locations of the 
peeling, I accept that its more likely than not in the circumstances that the various instances 
of damage have occurred on separate occasions and over a period of time. The damage 
doesnt look consistent with a one-off incident of damage from a dog jumping up or a shoe 
buckle.
In the circumstances, I conclude that Fortegra hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
interpretation of the policy wording and I dont uphold Mrs Ss claim. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment to Mrs S, however Im satisfied that this is a fair outcome in the 
light of the available evidence and the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman