DRN-2196566
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her PPI.
The PPI policy was part of a packaged protection plan called Total Mortgage Protection Plan
(TMPP) and it consisted of three parts  Mortgage Repayments Cover Plan (the PPI),
critical illness and life cover. In this decision Ive only considered Ms Ms complaint about the 
PPI element of the policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Halifax made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ill explain why.
Halifax hasnt been able to give us much documentation from the time of the sale, but I
dont find this surprising because of the length of time since the sale and businesses
arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. So, Ive taken into account what is
available and what I think most likely happened at the time.
Halifax has given us screenshots from the time of the sale which show Ms Ms 
responses to some questions about her eligibility for the policy  her health and 
employment etc which suggests it was discussed at the meeting. I note that Ms M didnt 
take all of the elements offered by the TMPP policy  she declined the critical illness 
cover  which again suggests there was a discussed about the policy. And Ive also seen 
a copy of the printed mortgage declaration which has a section about the TMPP, and 
which is signed and dated by Ms M. Taking this into account, as well as what I know 
about Halifaxs sales processes at the time, I think it most likely Ms M was aware she 
had a choice about taking the policy and decided to add it to her account  after 
discussion about how it would most be of benefit it to her  upon application of her 
mortgage.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms M, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Ms Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Ms M was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means she told us about, her employee benefits and 
savings, she still seems to have had a need for cover. And Ms M was solely responsible 
for the mortgage repayments. 
There was nothing about Ms Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Ms M says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because from what Ms M told us it looks like she had an 
operation to resolve her medical issue. We did ask Ms M for more information about her 
condition but didnt hear anything from her. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Ms M would have thought it likely she would have needed to make a claim on the policy 
because of that condition. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms M as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information 
she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms M would have 
declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.Ms Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman