DRN-3789898
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by what he says was an investment scam company or to help him to 
recover the money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms C came into contact with a broker claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as P. He 
was told he could have a personal trader who would train him how to trade on the forex 
market. The training was conducted over the phone and he had access to a trading platform 
and direct contact with the personal trader. 
Before making any payments, Mr C had satisfied himself P was regulated by the Cyprus 
Securities Exchange Commission (CySEC). And between 4 March and 24 March 2021, Mr 
C made four payments totalling £14,300 to an account he held with P using his Barclays 
Visa debit card. 
Mr C later concluded hed been the victim of a scam and complained to Barclays. Barclays 
told him it had raised a dispute with P and temporarily refunded the £14,300. It later told him 
it had withdrawn the dispute as P had defended the claim. P had argued Mr C had made a 
total of 518 transactions, and on 31 March he asked to withdraw £2,500; a request which he 
later cancelled. It said Mr C had the opportunity to close his account but decided not to, 
arguing that if he wasnt satisfied with its services, he could have closed the account at any 
time. 
Mr C complained to Barclays about its decision to withdraw the chargeback request. It 
explained P had failed to respond to the £3,000 dispute, which meant it would be resolved in 
his favour.  It said the other three disputes had been defended with strong evidence showing 
the multiple risk warnings displayed on Ps site regarding the dangers of this type of trading. 
The evidence also showed a full trade history detailing Mr Cs profits and losses, and an 
email from Mr C showing a cancelled withdrawal request. It explained it was unable to refund 
the other three payments as it had been unable to identify a bank error.
Following the unsuccessful resolution of the three disputes, Barclays removed the temporary 
credit, but removed too much in error. So, it refunded the discrepancy and provided £50.00 
compensation for the error.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said he wasnt expecting to 
be tricked into a system whereby P would make a lot of money and he couldnt get out of his 
trades due to double direction trades and high roll-over fees.
But our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted P was regulated 
by CySEC and as it was based in the EEA, it could offer certain products or services in the 
UK. There were no warnings published about it by any official organisations to suggest it 
was operating a scam at the material time and, as the payments werent fraudulent, Barclays 
didnt have a duty to intervene as C wasnt at risk of loss due to fraud. She was also satisfied 
Barclays decision not to pursue a chargeback was fair as the required service was provided.
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Hes explained the personal trader was the person who gave him the signals to 
trade on and kept asking him to deposit more money into his account with promises that 
something big was about to happen on the markets. He also said the trader tied his account 
up with 'double directing', which is trading on the same commodity with a sell and buy option. 
This made it impossible to trade out of because when a commodity went in one direction it 
caused problems in the other. He argued this was a system some traders used to increase 
their commission and that Barclays had enough evidence to show this is what was 
happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear Mr C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied Mr C authorised the payments for the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, under the Regulations, and 
under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr C has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether P was operating a scam as Mr C alleges.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time P was operating 
a scam. I say this as at that time it was regulated by CySEC. It also had passporting rights 
through the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  which meant it could offer its services to UK 
customers as recorded on the FCA website. The services being offered may have been high 
risk and I accept Mr Cs testimony that its likely there were some questionable practices. But 
that doesnt mean P was operating a scam. 
Crucially, P is still operating and there are no warnings on either the FCA or the IOSCO 
websites (certainly none within a month of any of the transactions). Ive considered whether 
any of the other circumstances Mr C has described indicate P was operating as a scam and 
I dont think they do. Consequently, Im not satisfied Mr C has shown he was the victim of a 
scam and so Barclays was under no obligation to intervene with the purpose of preventing a fraud or scam. Mr C might wish to consider whether he can complain about Ps practices to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service in Cyprus.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover Mr Cs payments 
when he reported he believed hed been scammed to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme 
run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly 
and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder (Mr C).
Barclays is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa in this case) rules. It has said it 
withdrew the chargeback (for the three payments which were defended) as it had been 
unable to identify that P had made an error. As this was an investment trading dispute, the 
only applicable misrepresentation option for Barclays would have been if Mr C was unable to 
withdraw available funds from his trading platform. But its not just enough to be unable to 
withdraw available funds, Mr C would have needed to have provided dated evidence that he 
had funds available in his trading account on the day he requested them. I dont see that he 
had this evidence and therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable chance of a 
chargeback succeeding, so Barclays withdrawing the request when it was challenged is a 
reasonable exercise of its discretion.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr C has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman