DRN-3021242
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc closed his credit card and recorded a default 
on his credit file despite only missing one payment. 
What happened
In November 2017 C D let Capital One know a third party debt advice organisation (S) was 
acting on his behalf. At the beginning of December 2017 Capital One received contact from 
S that offered a long term payment arrangement of £5 a month. Capital One wrote to Mr D 
and S to confirm acceptance of the new arrangement. Capital One said £5 was less than the 
contractual minimum and that it had suspended interest and charges. Capital Ones letter 
explained Mr D could avoid closure of his account and negative information being recorded 
on his credit file by clearing the arrears. The payment plan was due to start that month. 
No payment was made in December 2017 and Capital One says it closed the credit card and 
reported a default on Mr Ds credit file in January 2018. Mr D continued to make £5 monthly 
payments until June 2018. At that point, he owed £151.50. No payments have been made 
since. 
Mr D complained to Capital One about the default on his credit file and said it shouldve 
waited for at least three payments to be missed before closing his account. Capital One 
didnt agree it had made a mistake or treated Mr D unfairly. Capital Ones response pointed 
out that Mr D had stopped making payments in June 2018. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Capital One had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D 
asked to appeal and explained that online information he found said businesses shouldnt 
default an account unless its at least three months behind. As Mr D asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D feels Capital One treated him unfairly by closing and defaulting his credit 
card account. Capital One says where it accepts a long term payment arrangement that 
agrees a card holder can pay less that the normal monthly payment it moves to close the 
account. That means a default was recorded. I need to decide whether that was a fair 
approach in Mr Ds case. 
Ive looked at the online search information Mr D has sent in. I agree that businesses will 
often close and default an account when its between three and six months behind. But there 
are a range of reasons a business may decide to close an account and report a default. 
Whilst I note the information Mr D has sent, industry guidance says businesses can close an 
account to reflect a long term change in the payments being made. In this case, I can see 
that S contacted Capital One and explained Mr D could afford to pay £5 a month going 
forward. That amount wasnt sufficient to cover interest which wouldve meant that, despite 
making a payment each month, the arrears and balance would increase. Given S asked 
Capital One to accept a long term payment arrangement that wouldve still meant his arrears 
and overall outstanding balance was increasing over time, I think its decision to close the 
account was fair. 
Capital Ones approach had the effect of stopping new interest and charges being applied to 
the debt. That meant any payments Mr D made were used to repay the outstanding balance, 
not cover new interest. Given S asked Capital One to accept a reduced payment in the long 
term due to Mr Ds circumstances, Im satisfied that was a fair approach to take. 
I think its also reasonable to note that no payments were received by Capital One from June 
2018 onwards. Given thats the case, I think Mr D is in broadly the same position as the 
current approach taken by Capital One. The key difference is that the default was recorded 
in January 2018 instead of later in the year. Overall, I havent been persuaded that Mr D has 
been unfairly impacted by Capital Ones approach in this case.
As Im satisfied Capital One dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman