DRN-3396058
The complaint
Ms F complains (through a representative) that Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) didnt carry
out effective affordability checks. Had it done so, then Ms F wouldnt have been provided
with the loans.
What happened
Ms F took at least nine loans between February 2015 and February 2021. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 27/02/2015 05/06/2015 20 £14.00
2 £500.00 05/06/2015 14/12/2015 30 £25.00
3 £500.00 14/12/2015 18/07/2016 30 £25.00
4 £300.00 25/07/2016 06/03/2017 30 £15.00
Gap
5 £500.00 31/07/2017 29/01/2018 30 £25.00
Gap
6 £250.00 22/07/2019 20/12/2019 30 £12.50
7 £400.00 20/12/2019 17/07/2020 30 £20.00
8 £400.00 31/08/2020 05/02/2021 30 £20.00
9 £500.00 05/02/2021 outstanding 30 £25.00
Following Ms Fs complaint Skyline issued its final response letter in April 2021. Skyline
concluded that it carried out proportionate checks before advancing these loans to Ms F, and
based on the information it gathered from Ms F it was reasonable to lend.
Unhappy with this response, Ms Fs representative referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
Skyline didnt consent to consider Ms Fs first loan because it was taken out more than six
years before she complained. The adjudicator made enquires with Ms Fs representative
about when she became aware, she could complain. No response was received, so the
adjudicator concluded that loan one was complained about too late.
The adjudicator also concluded given what Skyline knew about Ms F and the gaps in lending
that it wasnt wrong of it to have advanced loans two, three, six and seven. He upheld loans
four, five and nine because in his view, the pattern of lending was now harmful for Ms F.
Finally, he also thought loan eight shouldnt have been provided because there were signs
that Ms F was having problems managing her money given a County Court Judgement
(CCJ) had recently been added to her credit file.
Overall, he upheld loans, four, five, eight and nine.
Ms Fs representative acknowledged receipt of the assessment but didnt provide any further
comments.
Skyline said it agreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loan four. But it
disagreed with the outcome for loans five, eight and nine, in summary Skyline said:
Ms F refinanced three of her loans and refinancing is a feature of this product and 
many of the loans were taken for seasonal items such as Christmas.
The affordability assessment for loans four and five showed Skyline that these loans 
were affordable.
There is a gap of 21 weeks between loans four and five which represents a 
significant break in lending.
Loans eight and nine were also affordable following the affordability assessment and 
credit check.
Skyline was aware of the CCJ but even taking the repayment for this into account the 
loan still looked affordable.
Ms F did have some financial problems while repaying loan 9 but Skyline offered her 
support. The last payment it received towards this loan was in December 2021.
Following the above comments, the adjudicator wrote to both Skyline and Ms F informing
them the case was being passed to an ombudsman. At which point Skyline reaffirmed its
offer to uphold loan4. It also made, in summary, the following comments:
There are two gaps in the lending relationship.
There was no change in Ms Fs credit commitments between loans 8and9.
There were no defaults recorded within 12 months of these applications.
Despite Skylines efforts it has struggled to reach Ms F in order to rearrange to repay 
her balance.
Ms F hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that these loans were unaffordable for 
her.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint in part  but I was intending to uphold fewer loans. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italic and a smaller 
font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms F appears to agree with our adjudicators findings about loans 1  3 and loan 6 - 7. So, I
no longer think this lending is in dispute so I no longer need to make a finding about them.
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship
between Skyline and Ms F.
Skyline has also accepted that something went wrong when loan 4 was granted, and it
offered to put things right for Ms F in line with the adjudicators recommendations. So, like
the loans the adjudicator didnt uphold, this loan is no longer in dispute, but for completeness
Ive included what Skyline needs to do to put things right in the putting things right section
at the end of the decision.Instead, this decision will focus on whether Skyline did anything wrong when it granted loans
5, 8 and 9.
Skyline had to assess the lending to check if Ms F could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Skylines checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Fs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Skyline should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms F. These factors include:
Ms F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms F.
Skyline was required to establish whether Ms F could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms F was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Fs complaint.
Loan 5
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan five Ms F had taken four previous loans in
around 29 months which is why the adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Ms F had become reliant
on this lending. I do accept that loan five was larger than loan four, which led to a larger
weekly commitment to Skyline. But I cant ignore the nearly five month gap between Ms F
repaying loan four and being advanced loan five.
Skyline says that this shouldve led to a new lending chain and therefore a new relationship.
But I dont agree, Ms F was now returning for further relending for a larger amount compared
to the previous loan. In addition to this Ms F had been indebted to Skyline for over two years
for loans 1  4.
But, I dont think this loan was inherently harmful or unsustainable for Ms F. After all, shed
not needed any credit from Skyline for nearly five months which I feel shows that there may
have been a change in her circumstances.
So, while Im not upholding this loan for the same reasons as the adjudicator, that stilldoesnt mean I think Skyline did all it needed to do.
But that doesnt mean that Skyline carried out a proportionate check. Ms F had been almost
continuously indebted to Skyline for 25 months prior to this loan, and she was returning for
further credit, extending her indebtedness for at least another 30 weeks.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Skyline to have relied on what Ms F declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms F had
disposable income of around £560 per month which would suggest that she would be in a
position to afford the weekly repayments of £25.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Fs actual financial position to
ensure loan five was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Fs credit full report. This
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Skyline mightve needed to consider about Ms Fs general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Skyline carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms F couldnt afford this loan.
Ms F hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of her bank statements. But she
has provided a copy of her full credit report from one of the credit reference agencies. While
it was produced in April 2021; it will contain information about Ms Fs situation when this loan
was approved in July 2017.
Ive looked at her credit report, and there doesnt appear to show a lot of other credit
commitments at the time. It looks like she had a mobile phone contract and a current
account. But there is no other evidence of financial difficulties. So, based on the credit report
Ive been provided it seems like Ms F couldve afforded the repayment she was due to make.
But, it is worth pointing out that Ive not been able to verify Ms Fs other living costs and her
contributions towards them. So, without any further information from Ms F about her living
costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Skyline wouldve seen had it made better checks.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Skyline shouldnt have lent loan five. Even considering what Ms F declared to Skyline for her
income and expenditure, loan five appeared affordable. Im not minded therefore to think
Skyline was wrong to have provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Fs complaint about this loan.
Loan 8
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view there were signs that Ms F was having
problems managing her money because she had recently had a CCJ recorded against her,
which was active and she was still repaying. And knowing this Skyline shouldnt have lent.
As I said earlier, Skyline disagreed with this. It said the checks it carried out were within the
guidelines and were proportionate. It was aware of the CCJ but it was satisfied that Ms F
was making repayments towards the balance and even factoring those payments into the
affordability assessment she still had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the
repayments she was committed to making.
I do agree with Skyline that it would seem, based on the information it gathered, this loan
wouldve looked affordable to Ms F. But, on top of the loan being affordable, STF also had to
consider whether the loan repayments were likely to be sustainable, given everything else
that it knew about Ms Fs finances.
Ive thought carefully about what both the adjudicator and Skyline said in relation to this loanand I do think, given what Ive seen that Ms F was likely having problems manging her
money.
Skyline says it was aware that there was a CCJ, which is quite serious to have been
recorded on her credit file. It was also, in my view, missed payments for a priority debt 
council tax and are no payments that you would ordinally want to miss. So, to me this does
suggest that Ms F was likely having financial difficulties. The CCJ was recorded on her credit
file in February 2020, so only six months before this loan was advanced.
Skyline says a credit check was carried out for this loan but it hasnt provided the Financial
Ombudsman with the results so I dont know what it may or may not have seen.
But, even if I thought the CCJ alone wasnt enough to uphold the complaint, a further review
of Ms Fs credit file showed in my view further financial difficulties. Ms F had defaulted on a
further four accounts in around the preceding 14 months. In my view, the defaults along with
the CCJ indicates to me that Ms F was likely having financial difficulties.
So, I do think, Skyline had information which suggested Ms F was likely having financial
difficulties and I dont see how advancing further credit to someone who had recently had
four defaults and a CCJ recorded against them was sustainable. Im therefore intending to
uphold Ms Fs complaint about loan 8.
Loan 9
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent
felt the need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Although, I accept, based on what Skyline provided this
loan wouldve looked affordable to it.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms F, Skyline also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms F.
Having looked at the overall pattern of Skylines lending history with Ms F, I agree with our
adjudicator that at this point in time, Skyline should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 9. I say this
because;
At this point Skyline ought to have realised Ms F was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms F had taken out four loans in around 18 months and she had been indebted 
to Skyline for the entire time, in this lending chain. So Skyline ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Ms F was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Ms 
Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and her underlying financial situation didnt 
seem to be improving.
By loan 9, Ms Fs weekly repayments were double compared to loan six (first loan in the new 
chain). She started paying £12.50 per week but was now committed to paying £25 per week. 
So, Ms Fs weekly repayments were increasing which suggests that the loans werent 
sustainable for her and her borrowing hadnt decreased over the lending relationship.
Loan 9 was also Ms Fs largest loan to date within this lending chain, further signs that her 
indebtedness was increasing rather than decreasing.
Ms F normally took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid. Skyline ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms F, on these occasions, was having to borrow 
further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, 
this is indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable.
I think that Ms F has lost out because Skyline provided her with loan nine because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period of time and
 the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms F borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 4, 8 and 9.
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any further comment or evidence they wanted 
considering in the final decision no later than 25 March 2022. 
Skyline responded to the provisional decision and it said that it doesnt agree with the 
proposed outcome for loans 8 and 9. Skyline says before these loans were approved it 
carried out:
A credit check. 
It verified Ms Fs income through an online portal
The credit commitments Skyline discovered from the credit check were applied to the 
affordability assessment. 
A further £25 per week buffer to cover unexpected expenditure. 
Skyline says that these checks were provided in its submission to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service but dont appear to have been considered. 
Finally, it provided the reasons as to why Ms F took out these loans and Skyline says this 
formed part of its assessment whether she was reliant on credit. 
Ms Fs representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and explained it 
would contact Ms F to see whether she had anything further to add. 
No further contact has been received and given the deadline for the responses to the 
provisional decision has passed, I dont consider it unreasonable to proceed to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in the provisional decision, based on the checks that were carried out before 
loans 8 and 9 were advanced Skyline wouldve been satisfied that Ms F had sufficient 
disposable income to be able to afford to repay these loans. 
But as I explained in the provisional decision, the loan being pounds and pence affordable is 
only part of the consideration. As part of any loan application Skyline is required to consider 
whether the loan is also sustainable. 
For loan 8, Skyline was aware of the CCJ that had recently been recorded on Ms Fs credit 
file. It said that as she was able to meet the repayment, she was making towards this debt 
that it was reasonable to lend. Ive thought about that, but for the reasons Ive outlined in the 
provisional decision, I dont think its decision to lend was reasonable. 
And, as I said previously, even if the CCJ on its own wasnt sufficient, I have a copy of 
Ms Fs credit report, and in my view, there is other concerning information on there such as 
some  defaults which further highlight to me that Ms F was having wider financial difficulties 
and so it wasnt a fair lending decision to advance this loan. Its also worth saying at this point, that Skyline hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman 
with the results of the credit checks that it says were carried out. So, I dont know exactly 
what information it was provided with.
The reason why a loan may be needed, in this case, Skyline has told us loan 8 was for a 
wedding and loan 9 for a one-off purchase. But these are just some of the factors that go 
into deciding whether loan(s) should be upheld.
I also must consider, what else Skyline knew about Ms F, the term of the loan, the loan 
amount, any other information it may have and what has gone on before, in the overall 
lending relationship. 
Its this wider information and the overall circumstances of the lending that led me to 
conclude that loan 9 was now harmful for Ms F  for the reasons Ive outlined above 
because the loan was unsustainable. So it is, at this point Im less concerned with what 
checks Skyline did (or didnt) carry out. The overall pattern of lending was by loan 9, in my 
view harmful and it shouldnt have been advanced, for the reasons outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
Skylines comments havent made me think that I need to change the outcome I was 
intending to reach. So, I still think Skyline was wrong to have advance loans 4, 8 and 9 and 
Ive set out below what it needs to do in order to put things right for Ms F.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent loans 4, 8 and 9, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skylines liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Skyline shouldnt have given Ms F loans 4, 8 and 9.
If Skyline has sold the outstanding balance it should buy it back if it is able to do so. If
Skyline cant buy it back, then it should liaise with the debt owner to achieve the results
outlined below.A. Skyline should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Skyline have already refunded.
B. Skyline should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Skyline should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Ms F having 
made overpayments then Skyline should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Skyline should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms F. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Skyline should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms F. Skyline shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Skyline have already written-off.
E. Skyline should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in 
relation to loan 8. The overall pattern of Ms Fs borrowing for loans 4 and 9 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these 
loans entirely from Ms Fs credit file. Skyline does not have to remove loan 9 from 
Ms Fs credit file until it has been repaid, but Skyline should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about it.
F.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should
give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, above and in the provisional decision Im upholding Ms Fs 
complaint in part.
Skyline Direct Limited should put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman