DRN-2819989
The complaint
Mr W complains about Nationwide Building Society and their decision to open a current 
account using his bail address rather than his permanent living address. He believes this has 
led to him being declined for credit as it was reported to his credit file.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr W opened a current account with Nationwide in his local branch. At the 
time Mr W opened the account, he was living at an agreed bail address with a relative. The 
account was opened, and Mr W used the account for a short period of time. The account 
was closed in October 2018. 
But since that date, Mr W says hes applied for different forms of credit and been declined, 
even though he has a good credit rating. He requested a copy of his credit report from a 
credit reference agency (CRA) and found the bail address had been reported on it. Mr W 
believed this was the reason hed been denied credit, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W didnt think Nationwide shouldve used his bail address as his living address when they 
opened the account. Hes said at the time he was still paying the bills for his actual 
permanent address and he made Nationwide aware when the account was opened his bail 
address was only temporary. So, he wanted Nationwide to remove the bail address from his 
credit file.
Nationwide didnt agree. They acknowledge Mr W only resided at the bail address for a short 
period of time, so they removed this address from their system. But they thought Mr W had 
provided the bail address and agreed to open the account with this as his main address. So, 
they thought theyd reported this to Mr Ws credit file accurately and didnt think it should be 
removed. Mr W was unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained she couldnt 
say for certain what was said when the application was made, as it was made in person in 
branch. But, on the balance of probability, she thought it was most likely Mr W provided his 
bail address and agreed to open the account with that listed as the main address. So, she 
thought Nationwide had reported this correctly to Mr Ws credit file and didnt think she could 
ask them to remove it. But she explained Mr W was able to apply for a notice of correction 
himself, which lenders would be able to see and take into consideration.
And she didnt think shed seen any evidence to show Mr Ws declined credit applications 
were solely due to the address being reported. She explained there were several factors 
lenders considered before approving credit. So, she didnt think Nationwides reporting of the 
bail address had definitely led to the declined credit. So, she didnt think she could fairly say 
Nationwide had done anything wrong and so, she didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained his view that the bail address shouldnt have been used 
and likened it to going on holiday. He also explained his credit rating had been 999 and so 
thought it was most likely the address had led to the declined applications. He felt his 
permanent address was the one that shouldve been used and so he thought Nationwide 
should remove it from his credit file and compensate him for the impact reporting it has had. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I recognise the 
frustration Mr W wouldve felt when he was declined for credit from several lenders, 
especially when he believed his credit rating was good. So, when he received a copy of his 
credit file and noticed his bail address had been reported, I can understand why he thought 
this was the reason for the declined application. But for me to say Nationwide should remove 
this, and compensate him for any inconvenience suffered, Id need to be satisfied 
Nationwide made an error when using this address to open the current account in 2018. 
And, if I think they did, Id then need to be satisfied it was this address on Mr Ws credit file 
that had caused the lenders to decline Mr Ws applications for credit. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case. 
Ive first thought about whether Nationwide made an error when opening the account using 
Mr Ws bail address. As this application was made in branch, Im unable to say for certain 
what was discussed. So, Ive had to consider what I think was most likely to have happened, 
considering the evidence I have available and the testimonies provided by both Nationwide 
and Mr W.
Ive seen the application that was submitted. And it provided Mr Ws bail address, while 
listing Mr Ws permanent address as a previous one. As Mr Ws bail address was an 
address of a relatives he was ordered to reside in at the time, I dont think Nationwide 
wouldve had access to this information unless Mr W provided it. So, on the balance of 
probability, Im satisfied he did.
Mr W has said he explained to Nationwide hed only be staying at the address for a short 
period of time. So, he doesnt think Nationwide shouldve used this as his main address. But 
Ive seen the application listed the bail address as Mr Ws home address. And as he was 
staying here, this is the address Mr W wouldve needed any correspondence sent to. So, I 
dont think I can say Nationwide were wrong to submit the application in this way. And to 
submit the application, Mr W wouldve needed to agree to the application and confirm he 
was happy to continue. As the application was approved, and the account was opened 
which Mr W used afterwards, on the balance of probability I think its most likely Mr W 
agreed to this. So, I dont think I can say Nationwide did anything wrong. 
Ive then thought about whether Nationwide were wrong to report this information on Mr Ws 
credit file. Businesses such as Nationwide have an obligation to accurately report the way 
customers manage accounts with them to CRAs. This includes the information thats used 
to open the accounts. As I think Mr W provided Nationwide with his bail address and agreed 
to open his account using this information, I cant say that Nationwide have done anything 
wrong when reporting this. I think this was an accurate reflection of the application and Mr 
Ws account. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Nationwide should remove this.But I am aware Mr W is unhappy with this. Mr W is able to contact the CRAs who have this 
information reported and apply for a notice of correction. This correction would then be 
available for lenders to consider when deciding if they want to approve his application for 
future credit and this is an option Mr W is able to pursue himself if he wishes to do so.
As I dont think Nationwide reported Mr Ws bail address to his credit file incorrectly, Im 
unable to hold them responsible for any declined credit applications Mr W has had since 
then. But even so, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr Ws declined application were solely 
due to the bail address being reported. Lenders consider several factors when deciding 
whether they want to lend to a customer. Information on a credit file is just one of these 
factors. So, even if I did think Nationwide had made an error, which I dont think they have, I 
wouldnt be able to say this led to the inconvenience Mr W has experienced when struggling 
to obtain credit.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. But I hope its provided Mr W with 
some closure to his complaint. And I hope its provided Mr W with an alternative route to 
pursue when trying to amend his credit file moving forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman