DRN-3327691
The complaint
S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) mishandled its 
legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it but intended awarding different redress to that proposed by the investigator. I set 
out the following reasons:
DAS has already acknowledged that they wrongly declined Ss claim in error on 
22 August 2020, and that it then took them until 9 November 2020 to accept the 
claim. Its not in dispute that S had no choice but to appoint its own solicitors (whom 
Ill refer to as Firm K) during this period. And following the first assessment sent by 
our investigator, DAS have already agreed to cover Firm Ks costs in full up until 
23 November 2020. They have also offered £400 compensation for the poor handling 
of the claim, which I consider to be fair compensation to recognise the inconvenience 
likely to have been caused to S. 
However, the dispute that remains in this case is whether DAS should cover Firm Ks 
costs after the insurer agreed to cover the claim and appoint panel solicitors (and, if 
so, at what rate).
I can see that DAS offered to appoint panel solicitors in November 2020, including 
Firm D, who subsequently took over the case, but S wanted to continue instructing 
its own solicitor due to an upcoming deadline and because it said it hadnt heard 
anything from the panel solicitors DAS had appointed. 
Its not in dispute that S was entitled to freedom of choice at the time due to 
proceedings having been issued. And I note that DAS offered to appoint Firm K so 
that S could continue instructing them. But they made it clear it would only be at their 
non-panel rate of £100 per hour as set out in the policy (which is also clearly set out 
in the policy terms and conditions).
A case management report had been sent to Firm K to complete on 
23 November 2020, where DAS also set out what the applicable hourly rate would 
be. Therefore, while I understand S was keen to continue instructing its own solicitor 
due to the pressure it was under to file a defence, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to now expect the insurer to pay Firm Ks full legal costs up until DWF 
took over the case, as DAS had already made it clear what amount they would pay if 
S wanted to continue instructing Firm K. The insurer had also offered the services of 
their panel solicitors. And while I appreciate Firm D may not have reached out to S 
within 48 hours of being appointed, I can see that the panel solicitors did contact S 
on 20 November 2020, but were told that it wished to exercise freedom of choice and 
instruct its own solicitors. So Im satisfied S had the choice of either appointing 
Firm D at that point, or to continue instructing Firm K at the non-panel rate available 
under the policy. It accordingly chose to continue instructing Firm K; therefore it can 
only claim the non-panel rate.
I understand S felt the matter was urgent, but its deadline was not due until 
4 January 2021. I acknowledge this was a second deadline after S had managed to 
obtain an extension, but it would have still left Firm D with enough time to review 
matters and carry out the necessary work if S had instructed them when they got in 
contact on 20 November 2020. However, S chose the option of continuing to instruct 
its own solicitor. So, I consider it would be fair for DAS to cover a proportion of 
Firm Ks costs  even though they were never formally appointed  but only at the 
policy rate in line with their offer on 23 November 2020.
I appreciate that S considers DAS should reimburse its legal fees in full due to the 
poor service it has received. But DAS have already offered compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by their poor handling of the claim, they do not in turn need to 
also offer something over and above what any other policyholder would be entitled to 
under the policy terms and conditions. I understand that S had not heard from the 
panel solicitors DAS instructed within 48 hours, but I dont consider this to reasonably 
mean that it can then instruct its own solicitors at any cost and expect DAS to cover 
it. 
Therefore, I intend directing DAS to cover Ss legal costs incurred at Firm Ks full rate 
from the point the claim was filed on 7 August 2020 until 23 November 2020, and 
thereafter at £100 per hour up until Firm D took over the claim. I note that despite S 
agreeing to appoint Firm D on 4 March 2021, the panel solicitors did not reach out to 
Firm K to request the case file until around a month later. So, I consider it would be 
fair for DAS to cover Firm Ks costs at its non-panel rate up until Firm D requested 
the case file.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. DAS responded accepting my 
provisional decision, but S disagreed. In summary, it does not think that my decision took 
into consideration the incompetence of DAS and its panel solicitors, which effectively gave it 
no choice but to continue instructing Firm K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the submissions S has made in response to my provisional 
decision. But having done so, it hasnt changed my conclusions on the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I would like to assure S that I have considered everything it has said about how DAS 
handled the matter. And I note that it has also made comments about the actions of the 
panel solicitor and the impact they have had. However, this service is unable to consider the 
acts or omissions of legal professionals, as they do not fall within the remit of regulation by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. DAS is also not responsible for the failings of any 
independent legal professionals it appoints, so if S does have any concerns about the panel 
solicitors and their lack of contact, it would need to direct any such concerns to the Legal 
Ombudsman.
In terms of DASs handling of the claim, I set out in my provisional decision that I accepted 
the claim had been handled poorly by the insurer, which they had also acknowledged. 
However, Im not persuaded that any further compensation is warranted in these circumstances, over and above the £400 already offered by DAS, as it appears that a large 
part of Ss concerns relate to the lack of contact from the panel solicitors to progress the 
legal claim. I appreciate that DAS has not been without fault throughout the claim, and that 
their handling could have been better. But Im satisfied that £400 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the insurers handling of matters in these circumstances. 
I accept that the panel solicitors may not have reached out to S within 48 hours of being 
appointed. But as Ive already set out, I do not consider this would mean it could fairly and 
reasonably appoint its own solicitor at any cost and expect DAS to pay for it, especially when 
the insurer had already set out the terms and hourly rate applicable if S wanted to continue 
instructing Firm K. So, Im still not persuaded that DAS can fairly be held liable for paying 
Firm Ks full rate after it offered to appoint the solicitors on 23 November 2020.    
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to S. But the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision still stand.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Ss legal costs incurred between 7 August 2020 and 23 November 2020 at 
Firm Ks full rate, thereafter at DASs non-panel rate of £100 per hour. 
If S has already paid Firm Ks legal fees, pay 8% simple interest per annum on this 
amount from the date the money was paid until the date of settlement;
Pay £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused to S (if DAS has not already 
done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman