DRN-2135640
The complaint
Miss D complains that Virgin Money plc debited her credit card account following an
unsuccessful chargeback that resulted in her losing her balance transfer offer.
What happened
Miss D made a balance transfer to her Virgin credit card on a promotional interest rate. In
2018 Miss D asked Virgin to raise a chargeback for flight she booked, which it did. She says
there were a number of problems which meant the chargeback amount was debited from her
account before being re-credited. Miss D says she was working away and was unaware of
Virgin's correspondence. But in January 2019 received a letter from it that she interpreted as
telling her the chargeback had been successful. She says there were further problems in
March 2019 when the offer was again withdrawn and in May 2019 found out the chargeback
hadn't been successful. That meant the disputed amount was added to her account balance
which took it over her credit limit, and so she lost her promotional balance transfer interest
rate.
Virgin accepts it didn't deal with parts of the chargeback appropriately and has offered Miss
D £75 compensation. It says the problems at the start were caused by Miss D not providing
it with required information. And says its letter in January 2019 didn't tell her that her
chargeback was successful but told her the money had been credited to her account. Virgin
says when the chargeback was unsuccessful it correctly added the money to the amount
Miss D owed and in those circumstances correctly removed the promotional interest rate in
line with account terms and conditions. It says it wrote to Miss D in May 2019 to tell her
about the chargeback but accepts there was a problem with the letter that was sent.
Miss D brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought it
was clear Miss D had problems responding to letters as she worked away from home and
Virgin should have considered alternative contact methods. The investigator thought Virgin
hadn't communicated appropriately with Miss D and ought to have been clearer in its letter
in January 2019. The investigator recommended Virgin pay £200 compensation and
reinstate the interest free offer as well as refund any interest paid.
Virgin doesn't accept that view and says it ought to be able to decide how it communicates
with customers in these circumstances and that Miss D had access to online banking and
could have checked her account.
I asked Virgin for further information including the call recordings from March 2019. I also
asked it for information about what Miss D was told when the money was re-debited from her
account and if she was given time to reduce the account balance.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that I came to the
provisional view that Virgin hadn't dealt fairly with this complaint but for different reasons to
those of the investigator. I also thought provisionally that Virgin's compensation offer was fair 
and reasonable, and I made clear to the parties that my decision could change if I was given
further information about the matters I asked Virgin to clarify.
I said I was satisfied that the chargeback couldn't be progressed at the start as Miss D didn't 
provide Virgin with the information it needed to pursue the chargeback. I appreciated Miss D 
works away from home, but I said I couldnt fairly hold Virgin responsible for that and I would 
have expected Miss D to have made arrangements to receive her mail. I also thought that 
having looked at Virgin's records, Miss D didn't respond to an e-mail from it. So, I didnt think 
Virgin made a mistake or acted unfairly be re-debiting the money when it didn't receive 
required information.
I accepted there were matters that Virgin ought to have dealt with more appropriately that I 
could see it accepts. I could see that a call was not returned, and that Virgin accepted it 
didn't reinstate the balance transfer offer in March 2019. Virgin has offered £75 
compensation for that part of the complaint and I thought that offer fair and reasonable. I 
appreciated those issues were not Miss D's main complaint points.
I looked carefully at Virgin's letter in January 2019. The letter said you will be pleased
to know we have requested a refund from the retailer and the provisional credit we applied
will remain on your account. I said I was satisfied that letter suggested Miss D was 
successful in her chargeback and that the provisional credit was now permanent. I didnt 
think Virgin told Miss D that she may have to repay the money or that it was a temporary 
credit that the retailer could dispute. I thought Virgin ought to have been far clearer in that 
letter. So, I didnt think Miss D would have realised that Virgin may re-debit that money and it 
follows would not have realised that there was a risk that her credit limit would be exceeded.
I asked Virgin to provide me with the call recordings from March 2019 in which the balance
transfer was reinstated and interest was refunded. Virgin did not provide those calls just the
calls from 2018 and the later calls in May 2019. So, I said I didnt know what was discussed 
about the chargeback in March 2019, and if Miss D was told that the chargeback hadn't 
been resolved. The key point is that if Miss D was told that, then I didnt think it mattered that 
the January 2019 letter was misleading in those circumstances.
I said there was no dispute that in May 2019 Virgin wrote to Miss D and told her the 
chargeback was unsuccessful and it was re-debiting her account. It's not clear what 
happened to that letter as I could see Virgin accepts it was changed. And I asked Virgin to 
explain if it gave Miss D the opportunity of allowing her to make a payment towards her 
balance that would have allowed her to retain the promotional offer, but it hasn't done so. 
So, I thought on balance that Virgin didn't give Miss D prior notice that her chargeback was 
unsuccessful and didn't tell her that her balance transfer offer would be removed unless the 
account balance was reduced. I thought that was unfair and due to the misleading letter in 
January 2019 I didnt think Miss D would have expected that to have happened.
Overall, I didnt think Virgin dealt fairly with this complaint and didnt think its
communication was clear. I accepted that Miss D ought to have been able to have managed
her account if she knew she was away from home. But I didnt think that, even if she had, 
she would have known that there was a risk of losing the balance transfer offer.
I didnt agree with the investigator that Virgin should increase its compensation offer to £200.
But I thought it should reinstate the balance transfer offer, and deduct any interest payments
Miss D has made since the offer was removed from the balance transfer amount owed. I
thought such an approach would be fair and reasonable and would put Miss D back in the
position she ought to have been in. And that took account of the fact that she would have 
needed to make a payment to bring the account balance below the credit limit if she had 
been given prior notice of the chargeback outcome.I made clear to Miss D that my provisional view was based on the assumption that Virgin 
didn't tell Miss D in those March calls about the possibility of the money being re-debited. 
And that it didn't give her an opportunity to bring the account below the credit limit to allow 
her to keep the offer. I said that as Virgin may provide information about those issues that for 
whatever reason hadnt so far.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view I reached in my provisional view and 
for the same reasons. I have now listened to the calls between the parties from March 2019 
and Im satisfied that Miss D wasnt told what the correct position was or that she was told 
the chargeback money would be deducted. Virgin hasnt provided further information or 
comment on my provisional decision and Miss D has confirmed that she was unaware when 
she called Virgin that there was a possibility of the chargeback being reversed.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that the fairest approach here would be for Virgin to reinstate the balance 
transfer offer and calculate the interest Miss D has paid and deduct that from the balance. 
And put her back in the position she would have been if she had received clear 
communication that the chargeback had been reversed. Im satisfied the compensation offer 
of £75 is fair and reasonable and should be paid to Miss D if it hasnt already been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Virgin Money plc to reinstate the 
balance transfer offer and calculate the interest Miss D has paid and deduct that from the 
balance she owes. I also order Virgin Money plc to pay Miss D £75 compensation if its 
hadnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman