DRN-3284581
The complaint
Mr M has complained that following his motor policy being cancelled as if it never existed, 
esure Insurance Limited failed to deliver his car back to him in a fit state.
What happened
Esure cancelled Mr Ms policy as if it never existed following his claim for the theft of the 
catalytic converter. This is because esure said it would have never offered Mr M any policy 
for this car given it was imported.
Therefore, as esure had to his car to assess the damage for the claim, given it was no longer 
dealing with his claim, it needed Mr M to arrange to collect his car. Mr M and esure agreed it 
should be delivered to a garage. Mr M said the garage didnt accept the car, esure said the 
garage signed a receipt for the delivery of the car. 
Regardless, the car which wouldnt start, was left on the street outside the garage with the 
keys hanging off the rear-view mirror and plastic over an open window. Esure said this was 
because the delivery people couldnt start the car to shut the window, so they put plastic 
over it to protect the inside of the car.
The car was then subsequently used by homeless people and according to Mr M later 
disappeared. 
Mr M complained to esure about the loss of his car, who said it had delivered the car, which 
was all it was required to do. Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt think esure had done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Given esure had cancelled Mr Ms policy as if it never existed, it was for Mr M to go and 
collect his car or arrange to have it collected. Esure however was reasonable in being 
prepared to deliver his car to this garage nominated by Mr M. 
Ive seen the document where its clear the garage owner signed receipt for the car. Another 
person in the garage disputes this and said he couldnt accept a car that doesnt start as he 
had no mechanics facilities. Mr M also said he told esure not to deliver the car if it wouldnt 
start. 
But I dont consider any of this is at all relevant, as its clear on the evidence before me that 
Mr M knew his car was now on the road outside this garage. Esure, because his policy was 
cancelled, had no duty towards his car and there was also no duty on it to keep Mr Ms if it 
wouldnt start. The car was Mr Ms property not esures and esure was not insuring it either.
So, since Mr M was fully aware where his car was, it remained for him to sort it out, not 
esure, given esure had delivered it to where he wanted it to be delivered to, when frankly it 
had no duty to do that, it was for Mr M to arrange collection of his car himself.
I understand and appreciate Mr M said he had some mental health problems, but it remains 
my view that esure had no further responsibility for the car once it was delivered to where Mr 
M had requested.  So, I dont consider esure did anything wrong.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman