DRN-3758121
The complaint
Miss H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), closed her 
credit card without explanation causing here substantive distress and inconvenience. Miss H 
also complains about the poor customer service Barclays have provided.  
What happened
In late September 2020, following an internal review, Barclays blocked and closed Miss Hs 
credit card. On 2 October 2020, Barclays wrote to Miss H to explain it had closed her credit 
card account. Unhappy with Barclays action, Miss H complained. 
Barclays sent Miss H a response in October 2020. And following her responses, it added to 
this in a further response in December 2020. In summary, Barclays said: 
- It would credit Miss Hs credit card account with £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience of mistakenly closing her account had caused her 
- When it closed the account, it was concerned about potential fraud, and so followed 
its policy in relation to this 
- It was unable to tell Miss H what its concerns were and was obliged to close the 
account without notice 
- The card has been re-opened following an internal investigation
Barclays also responded to a disputed transaction claim Miss H had raised. I note this 
transaction has been refunded to Miss H as a gesture of goodwill. So I dont need to 
comment on this issue further. 
A little later, after reopening Miss Hs credit card, Barclays decided again to close it due to 
concerns it had. Miss H says Barclays told her it would be closing her account because of 
commercial reasons. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Miss Hs complaint. In summary, they said: 
- Barclays didnt act unfairly, and did so in line with the terms of the account, when 
closing Miss Hs credit card account immediately 
- Barclays payment of £150 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
actions caused 
Miss H said she wanted an Ombudsman to decide her complaint. She asked for a deadline 
to respond, our Investigator accepted this. As that deadline has passed, I will now decide 
this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Miss H, so Ill explain why. 
I note Miss H has a related complaint under a separate reference at this service. But this 
decision only deals with her complaint about her credit card. 
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account say Barclays can close an account by giving some 
notice. But in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Ive seen Barclays reasons for initially deciding to close Miss Hs account. And I note it told 
her in its response this was due to fraud concerns. Neither Barclays nor I are under 
obligation, that Im aware of, to give Miss H an explanation. But I am satisfied from what Ive 
seen that Barclays acted fairly and in line with its terms when deciding to close the account. 
Barclays subsequently said that it mistakenly closed Miss Hs account and awarded her 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused her. From what Ive seen, and as 
Ive alluded to, Barclays had legitimate concerns which it acted on. 
If I were to accept Barclays made a mistake here, then Im satisfied £150 is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss H. In reaching this 
determination, Ive weighed up the trips to the branch and calls she says she made. But I 
dont think a further award is merited as this was Miss Hs credit card  so not having the use 
of it didnt prevent her from spending her income on essential living costs. 
After apologising for closing the account, and after some time had passed, Barclays decided 
to close the account. Miss H says she was told this was because of commercial reasons. 
Its unfortunate, and sets a poor customer journey, that Miss Hs account was closed so 
soon after she was told it would re-open. Given this, Ive looked carefully at Barclays 
reasons for doing taking this action. Having done that, Im persuaded that despite the poor 
experience and customer service this caused, Barclays acted fairly and in line with the terms 
of the account. 
I accept not getting a proper explanation of why Barclays acted in this way will be 
unsatisfactory for Miss H. But as Ive already said, neither I nor Barclays are under any 
obligation, that Im aware of, to give an explanation. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman