DRN-1854694
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance 
(Oodle) wont change his finance agreement into his ex-wifes name despite her taking the 
car and him no longer having access to it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
If Mr M believes there are technical reasons he should not be responsible for the 
finance agreement then those are better suited to consideration by a court. The key 
thing for me is whether Oodle have been fair and reasonable in the actions they have 
taken.
The finance was approved when the business conducted affordability checks on     
Mr M and not on Mr Ms ex-wife. So, they cant simply change the name on the 
finance agreement without, at least, first ensuring Mr Ms ex-wife can afford the credit 
and without her approval. Neither of these requirements seem able to be met.
I understand the difficult situation Mr M is in, but I cant say the business have been 
unreasonable here. The finance was taken out in his name and he is solely 
responsible for meeting payments against it. They appear to be willing to treat this as 
a voluntary termination once the car is returned to them in order to minimise the 
liability on Mr M and that, again, seems fair. So, Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman