DRN-3294092
The complaint
Mr L complains that Next Retail Limited irresponsibly provided him with a running credit 
account which he couldnt afford. He says the limit was increased several times to 
unsustainable levels.
What happened
In March 2007, Mr L applied for a running credit facility with Next and was initially provided 
with a credit limit of £400. Mr L used the facility over a number years. Sometime in 2013, 
Next placed a hold on the account for several months because it had identified some 
concerns when reviewing Mr Ls credit file. Mr L paid off the amount he owed on the account 
by December 2014.
In August 2015, Mr L started using the account again but was required to pay for goods up 
front without the use of a credit facility. In August 2016, Next reviewed his account conduct 
and allowed him access to a credit facility again while also increasing his limit to £1,000. 
Next increased the credit limit again in February 2017 to £3,000 and once more in 
June 2017 to £3,750.
Soon after Mr L began to experience difficulty maintaining his payments towards this and 
other existing credit commitments. Next therefore suspended Mr Ls ability to make further 
purchases.
Mr L complained to Next to say that he shouldnt have been given the credit or the increases 
because they were unaffordable to him. He says that Next didnt complete adequate 
affordability checks prior to lending, and if it had, it would have seen he couldnt repay what 
he was borrowing.
I sent Mr L and Next my provisional decision on 14 January 2022 setting out why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Next were required to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks prior to 
advancing credit to Mr L. What is considered proportionate will vary in each case as it is 
unique to each lending decision. In deciding how thorough a check should be, Next needed 
to consider things such as (but not limited to): the amount of credit being advanced, the type 
of credit, the size and frequency of the repayments, the cost of the borrowing and Mr Ls 
personal circumstances.
As the adjudicator has explained, the initial credit was granted in March 2007, which was 
before this type of credit became an activity the Ombudsman Service could consider 
complaints about. For this reason, I dont have the power to comment on the initial 
application, including the appropriateness and fairness of that lending decision. However, 
I have considered the fairness of the limit increases.
From reviewing the account history, it seems to me that prior to the limit increase in 
August 2016, Mr L had generally managed his credit account well. Albeit, I note in 2013 he 
does appear to have been in financial difficulty, which has also been evidenced by a copy of 
his credit file that Mr L has provided to us. However, from everything Ive seen it seems Next 
acted appropriately at that time by preventing Mr L from spending additional amounts on the 
account and allowing him time to repay what was owed.
Given that Next were aware of Mr Ls historic difficulties, I dont agree that it completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks when it increased his credit limit to £1,000. 
Firstly, it accepts that prior to this it had suspended Mr Ls credit facility entirely. One of the 
first things it did after reinstating it, was to give him a new limit which was more than double 
the previous one, that it was aware he had struggled with in the past. It did this without any 
real understanding of what Mr Ls income was or what his day to day expenditure might have 
been other than what it could see from his credit file. Im not persuaded that level of check in 
the circumstances was appropriate.
I consider a reasonable check ought to have included verification of Mr Ls income and some 
further questioning about what Mr Ls regular committed expenditure was. However, had it 
done so, Im not persuaded that those further checks would have revealed anything of 
concern for Next. I say this because it appears Mr L had a stable and regular income of 
around £1,800 to £1,900 per month. Further, Mr L has told us that at the time he lived at 
home with his parents with no significant financial commitments other than the other credit 
he had taken out. I think had Next asked Mr L about this at the time, its likely he would have 
told it the same. From reviewing Mr Ls credit file and bank statements, Ive not seen 
anything to indicate that Mr Ls income wouldnt have been sufficient to meet the increased 
credit limit from Next, his other credit commitments elsewhere and his essential household 
spending. I dont therefore consider Next acted unfairly in increasing the limit to £1,000, even 
though its checks werent sufficient at the time.
The limit was increased to £3,000 in February 2017. This was only around six months after 
the first increase and it tripled Mr Ls credit limit. The checks Next completed consisted of 
reviewing Mr Ls credit file and his account management of the Next account. Im not 
satisfied this was proportionate or reasonable in the circumstances. This was a huge 
increase in credit, and it was given to someone who Next were aware had struggled to repay 
lower limits in the past. Next says that Mr Ls credit file showed significant improvement prior 
to this increase which gave them the confidence that he would be able to manage a higher 
limit.
I dont disagree that Mr Ls financial situation (according to his credit file) had appeared to 
improve, but there were also indications he had relied on payday loans within the last few 
months. Further, Next still had no real understanding of what level of income Mr L had or 
indeed what his living circumstances were in order to be able to repay such a large facility. 
As before, I think it would have been proportionate for Next to have verified Mr Ls income 
and asked him about his other committed expenditure.
Mr L has provided us with copies of his bank statements which show he was earning around 
£1,900 per month at the time. I can also see from his credit file that in September 2016, Mr L 
had successfully paid off a number of his debts. This included paying off nearly £7,000 in 
outstanding loan balances. In the same month, hed also taken out two new credit cards 
which had a combined credit limit of £750. He had demonstrated that hed managed these 
accounts well in those six months. I note there were two payday loans taken out by Mr L 
between September and December 2016. However, there appears to have been no difficulty 
in paying those back. Coupled with the large amount of debt he had successfully paid off, 
I think this did indicate that Mr Ls financial circumstances had improved quite significantly.
Reviewing Mr Ls credit file and bank statements from the time, it appears he continued to 
have no meaningful regular financial commitments (outside of the credit he had borrowed), 
except for a mobile phone contract and a few insurance policies. Had Next asked Mr L about his expenditure at the time (as I think it should have), Im not persuaded that Mr L would 
have revealed anything or could have demonstrated anything that ought to have indicated to 
Next that a credit limit of £3,000 would be unaffordable to him. I note that a month before this 
increase Mr L received a large cash payment of £7,000 from his employer and his bank 
statements appear to indicate hed briefly gone abroad. This doesnt indicate to me that he 
was in financial difficulty at this time.
I am aware that Mr L was paying a regular sum to a debt charity at the time. This appears to 
have been a payment towards historic debts he had, which likely stemmed from his 
difficulties in 2013. While he was still making payments towards this debt management plan, 
it was a fixed amount and he appeared to still have sufficient disposable income each month 
to meet his other regular commitments. Im therefore not persuaded that Next acted unfairly 
in increasing the limit to £3,000. 
The final increase to £3,750 was a few months later. Once again, I dont think Next 
completed reasonable or proportionate affordability checks. So, I think it should have done 
more before agreeing to increase the limit. However, as with the previous increases, I dont 
think this would likely have led to a different outcome. This is because Mr Ls financial
position was largely the same as when the limit was increased to £3,000, although he had 
now spent the £7,000 lump sum given by his employer. However, this had appeared to have 
been largely spent on non-essential items rather than towards his essential monthly 
commitments. In any event, I dont think Next would necessarily have ever been aware of 
this large payment that Mr L received. Mr Ls credit file also didnt indicate any additional 
signs of financial distress at this time, so Im not persuaded that further checks ought to have 
shown the lending was likely to be unaffordable.
I note that Mr L says he moved away from home a few months after this final limit increase 
and was then paying rent in excess of £1,000 per month. This also coincides with Mr L 
taking out significantly more credit commitments elsewhere including a number of payday 
loans. Therefore, based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears to me that Mr Ls difficulty in 
repaying his credit with Next (and others) was as a result of changes in his personal 
circumstances shortly after the final limit increase, rather than being provided with credit 
which he couldnt afford at the time it was given. For this reason, I dont think Next acted 
unfairly in providing the credit to Mr L, although I do consider the level of checks it completed 
at each increase to have been inadequate.
Next had no further comments to make, but Mr L disagreed with my provisional decision. In 
summary, he said that the reason he got into repayment difficulty was because of the 
amount of credit Next gave him and it charged him a high amount of interest. He said he had 
to leave his parents house due to a change in circumstances at home. He said that Next 
should have seen that he was in a debt management plan for previous debts and not given 
him further borrowing. He said he could only afford repayments by taking out further 
borrowing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. However, for completeness, Ill address the additional points Mr L has 
raised and explain why they dont change the outcome Ive reached. 
Mr L says he was in a debt management plan paying off previous debts, I accept this. But he 
was committed to paying off a set amount each month towards those debts. From the evidence hes provided, there isnt anything to indicate he couldnt afford to pay off those 
debts, his other essential expenditure and the credit Next had provided him with. 
While I dont think Nexts checks went far enough, this on its own doesnt mean the 
complaint should be upheld. I need to consider what would have likely happened if they had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. From what Ive seen and for 
the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont think more thorough checks 
ought to have revealed any affordability concerns. 
I note Mr L says he had no choice but to leave home due to a change in circumstances. 
However, this all still appears to have happened after the last credit limit increase Next 
provided to him. And up to that point it appears he had sufficient disposable income to meet 
those credit commitments without difficulty. While his change in circumstances undoubtedly 
caused him to struggle financially, I havent seen anything to make me think he was 
struggling at the time Next granted him the credit or that Next ought to have considered that 
he was. For these reasons, I cant say that Next has acted unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman