DRN-2022613
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint relates to the trade positions he held in his Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
account with Global Markets Group Limited (GMG). He says that false pricing from GMG 
resulted in a margin call and his positions being closed unfairly.
What happened
Mr Bs position
Mr B held a CFD account with GMG as a professional client. In July 2019, he held 36 long 
and 36 short currency positions which he says were affected by an alleged price 
manipulation. He says it took the form of a sharp movement in price  against his position  
which would last for a short period and would affect equity in his account. 
Mr B was required to maintain his own margin level. The margin call was triggered when the 
account equity dropped below the required level, which in this case was by €497.60. As a 
result of the margin call, the first stop out was triggered and GMG closed all the positions he 
held. This resulted in him losing approximately €147,000.
The drop in account equity correlated with a drop in GMGs pricing for the trade at the time. 
The legitimacy of the drop in price is what Mr B disputes. He says, essentially, that the price 
drop was false/manipulated/inconsistent with the underlying and wider market, and that but 
for GMGs price drop, the margin call would not have occurred. He says the drop in price 
was only for a short while before it was then corrected and returned to the right level. 
Mr B says there was no market volatility or liquidity issue that applied to these trades that 
would explain the movement in GMGs prices.  There was no change in the underlying 
market that would justify this. He also says the terms of business are generic and do not 
specifically deal with this situation.
GMGs position 
GMG reject the allegation of false/manipulated pricing or that their pricing did not reflect the 
underlying market. They say their prices were derived from the relevant exchanges. They 
say they reflected the prices available in the underlying and that they do not set the prices, 
these come directly from the relevant exchange through a third party and so no price 
manipulation could have been possible. They say that although their prices are reflective of 
the underlying market price, they could differ from other providers depending on other 
factors such as market conditions. The Terms of Business explain this. 
The terms agreed by Mr B also confirmed that his account was based on an execution only 
service and that it was his sole responsibility to manage the account trading and monitor his 
margin. They say that margin call closures were applied when margin requirements were 
breached and that they are not obliged to give alerts of the margin call. The terms make 
clear their contractual right to apply margin call closures where necessary to maintain their 
margins and so the margin call closures were valid. 
investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said he couldnt see any evidence that GMG 
had manipulated the prices. He said GMGs prices were sought directly from the relevant 
exchange via the third party and had not been altered by GMG. He said the underlying 
market determined the price and he was unable to say that GMG had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and maintained his position, so this has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
margin call closure
The margin call closure itself isnt in dispute as GMG had a contractual right to apply margin 
call closures to positions in circumstances where a margin breach has occurred on an 
account. The user agreement for Mr Bs account expressly made it Mr Bs responsibility to 
monitor and manage margin requirements in his account. The agreement gave GMG the 
right to close open positions within an account where such a breach occurs without prior 
notice to the accountholder as the accountholder ought to have been monitoring margin. 
The evidence shows the margin requirement was breached in Mr Bs account and that is 
what led to closure of the positions. I have considered below Mr Bs complaint about the 
pricing that led to the margin breach. But in terms of GMGs application of the margin call 
closures, I dont believe theyve done anything wrong.
legitimacy and source of the price feed
Mr B accepted the terms and conditions for his execution only account and that included his 
acceptance of their Terms of Business (TOB). The TOB confirmed that his CFD trades 
would be based on GMGs prices and not any relevant exchanges. A third party provided the 
price feed for GMG, so this service has not been in a position to look into how the relevant 
price feed was produced. 
In the circumstances, it is reasonable for GMG to disclose evidence of the price feed they 
used and to rely on that as justification for the price it applied to the trade. They have 
provided evidence of their price chart for the trade showing the sell rate at the time the trade 
was closed and evidence of their price feed showing the spread at the time the trade was 
closed.  They have also submitted evidence which illustrates price feeds received and 
pricing on their platform was consistent with those price feeds. They have also highlighted 
that the price feeds relate to data from the third party and that a link to this is available on 
their platform. This suggests that GMG wanted a degree of transparency in their platforms 
prices.
GMG have also provided evidence from their financial data provider of rates for the 
underlying instrument. The independent third parties that provide the source feed can also 
vary, so there is room for variation in the prices with the different providers. I dont contest 
the information Mr B provides but GMG has shown that they obtain their prices directly from 
the third party. The evidence GMG has shown largely are reflective of the prices in the 
underlying market. Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feelings on this issue, I havent 
seen any evidence that GMG have done anything wrong here. 
spread adjustmentThe terms required GMG to use its price feed, so I expect to see prices that reflect that price 
feed. GMG say their prices reflected the prices available in the underlying market plus a 
spread adjustment that is applied within tolerance levels. The terms and policy allowed them 
to apply spreads within a certain tolerance level of those prices or of the wider market prices. 
I would expect that the arrangements for applying spreads and the levels relevant to them 
should be reasonably transparent and accessible to an account holder. I have seen that their 
spread adjustment is noted on their website for each trade, so I do think GMG have shown a 
level of transparency here. 
The evidence GMG has shown largely are reflective of the prices in the underlying market. I 
think to go beyond this and begin to determine what is or is not reasonable tolerance, could 
arguably be interfering with the firms commercial discretion  a discretion which are they 
entitled to exercise. Our role here is not to interfere with a firms commercial decision but to 
consider whether they have done anything wrong. I think anything further than this would be 
crossing over to the remit of regulation which is for the regulator to consider, not this service. 
Mr B does not appear to have presented evidence to support the manipulation that he has 
described. GMG source its price feeds from a third party and this is explained in the TOB. 
There does not appear to be scope for GMG to manipulate the prices provided by 
independent sources. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded 
that the closing price for the trade was false or manipulated and do not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Global Markets Group Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman