DRN-2849131
The complaint
Miss W complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) reported incorrect 
information on her credit file. She says this caused her distress, inconvenience and loss of 
earnings.
I understand PayPal uses a representative to deal with individual voluntary arrangements
(IVAs). For ease, references to PayPal include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in May 2021, which set out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to decide. Please note I have corrected a date typo (in bold)  apologies 
for any confusion this caused: 
Miss W held a PayPal credit agreement with a limit of £1,200. She fell into 
arrears in late 2018, and also had other debts.
She entered an IVA in February 2019, covering debts exceeding £35,000, 
including the sums owed to PayPal.
PayPal says it wasnt notified of the IVA. So it reported a default on the account 
in April 2019, as a default notice had been sent but no payment had been 
received. When Miss W called to explain the situation, it halted collections activity 
and reported that the IVA had been accepted.
In June 2019, a variation meeting was held for the IVA. It was agreed that a third
party would pay £2,000 in full and final settlement of the debts, in addition to 
£183 Miss W had already paid. It appears that, under these terms, PayPal was to 
receive a dividend of £33.76 for Miss Ws debt of £1,281.45.
The IVA completed in September 2019. Miss W says PayPal was correctly 
notified of this at the time, as were the other creditors. But it continued to report 
that she still owed £1,281 and was in default. From October 2019, she tried to 
liaise with PayPal to correct this. She says it provided poor service and didnt fix 
the error.
In November 2019, Miss W was notified that shed been placed in a reserve pool 
for a job shed applied for. The employer said shed met the required standard for 
the role, and it would try to place her for up to 12 months  subject to pre-
employment checks.
In January 2020, when Miss Ws issues with PayPal were still ongoing, the 
employer said she hadnt passed the pre-employment checks. She explained the 
ongoing dispute with PayPal, but the employer affirmed its decision and said it 
couldnt confirm the specific reason why she didnt pass the checks. They 
subsequently sent her a job offer  but this was an error. They apologised, 
explaining the offer shouldnt have been sent due to her not passing the checks.
In late January 2020, with the account still reporting an outstanding balance, 
PayPal made an adjustment that showed on Miss Ws statements as if a payment 
for the outstanding amount had been made. Following this, Ive seen that her 
credit file showed the default being applied around March 2019, and the debt 
being settled in September 2019.
Miss W was unhappy with the adjustment PayPal had made, stating it shouldnt 
have made a financial transaction on her account without her consent or 
knowledge. She was also unhappy that it communicated via its message portal, 
which only showed messages for 90 days, and with how it handled her subject 
access request (SAR).
PayPal had originally offered £200 compensation, but it increased this to £500 in
January 2020 given the ongoing issues. Miss W wasnt satisfied with this offer. 
She said it had caused her further problems, such as loss of earnings. She told 
our investigator that shed like her credit file to be corrected; an apology; loss of 
earnings, which she quantified to be £1.5 million; £1,000 compensation; and 
£450 for her time and costs pursuing the complaint. She said shed accept half a 
million pounds in full and final settlement.
The investigator concluded that £500 compensation was fair. In summary, he 
said PayPal could (within reason) determine its communication arrangements  
and as Miss W had received the messages, he didnt think shed been caused 
any detriment. He also thought it had promptly dealt with her SAR and that the 
manual payment amendment had benefitted her. He agreed PayPal had made an 
error with the credit reporting, and that it had caused delays, but considered £500 
to be a fair reflection of the impact this had on Miss W. He didnt think the 
evidence substantiated that PayPals errors were the sole cause of her failing the 
employers checks.
Miss W has appealed the investigators view as shes unhappy with the
compensation and the way hed addressed her complaint. Shes subsequently
submitted further information to show that shes since passed the employers 
checks and been offered a job.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided that the compensation is fair. But I think 
PayPal needs to amend the default date its reporting. Ive explained this below.
Credit reporting
Ill start by addressing how PayPal should report this account on Miss Ws credit file.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has issued principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies (CRAs). These 
explain that a default can be recorded in certain circumstances including when the 
account has been included in an IVA  as happened here. The lender can do that as 
soon as they become aware of the situation.
PayPal says it only found out about the IVA when notified by Miss W in April 2019, 
whereas she says its representative was notified at the time. Regardless, the ICO 
principles explain:The default date must be consistent with that of the IVA; therefore a 
default should be filed as being no later than the date of the insolvency 
order. In circumstances where the lender is not immediately aware, the 
default can be filed at that point in time. If evidence of the insolvency date is 
provided, the default date recorded at the CRA will be aligned.
PayPal has now received evidence that the IVA was approved on 5 February 2019. 
So that is the default date it should now be reporting to the CRAs. From what Ive 
seen, its reporting a later date. So it needs to correct this.
That doesnt mean PayPal has reported the account incorrectly if some CRAs show 
a D marker (for default) in the subsequent months. Between the default being 
applied in February 2019 and the account being settled in September 2019, PayPal 
has a duty to accurately report that a defaulted amount (i.e. an amount owed that 
was outside the terms of the credit agreement  as the contractually expected 
payments were not being made and the credit limit was breached) was still owed on 
the account. This is different to the date the default was applied. PayPal should be 
reporting that the account was cleared by October 2019. But it has a duty to report 
the outstanding balance up to that point. How exactly that shows on Miss Ws credit 
file may vary somewhat between the CRAs, which have their own codes to 
represent the status of the account.
Compensation
Ill now address the remaining issues raised about how PayPal handled things. As 
its offered £500 compensation, Ive considered whether thats a fair reflection of 
the impact its errors had on Miss W. She alleges her losses are significantly 
higher.
Miss W has raised a number of issues regarding PayPals service. The crux of 
these is how it reported the account on her credit file after she says it had all the 
information it needed to know the IVA had completed. But Ill start by addressing 
her other issues, as these all feed into determining the impact of PayPals failings.
In addressing all these points, I want to acknowledge that Miss W has provided 
detailed submissions about her complaint. Ive read and considered all of these, 
but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. If I dont mention a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that 
I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I know Miss W isnt happy that PayPal communicated via its message portal  which 
only retains messages for 90 days. In general terms, PayPal has legitimate 
commercial discretion over how it operates. And it sounds like this is a reasonably 
common feature of encrypted messages, which are used to keep customers data 
safe. As our investigator has mentioned, its clear Miss W was able to access these 
messages so I cant see shes lost out as a result (aside from the general 
communication delays, which Ill address below).
There was also some mention that Miss W was unhappy with how PayPal dealt 
with her SAR. But Ive seen nothing to suggest this was done outside of e
expected timescales, nor that any mistakes with the SAR caused her detriment. 
And means she has a record of PayPals messages for more than 90 days.Its clear Miss W had to put in time and effort to resolve the matter. Ive taken this 
into account when considering whether PayPals offer is fair. I know shes also 
unhappy that her statement shows a payment being made into the account in late 
January 2020. The balance should already have been £0. But the manual 
adjustment was a workaround and served to benefit Miss W. It meant the systems 
accurately reflected that no further debt was being pursued, and appears to have 
fed into her credit file fairly  as a £0 balance is reported following the IVA 
completion in September 2019.
The main issue which Miss W says caused her a loss is PayPals delay updating 
her credit file. PayPal accepts that it ought to have reported the account as settled 
once it received the information it needed about her IVA. But it says this wasnt 
initially provided. However, Ive seen records from the insolvency practitioner which 
seem to show that PayPals representative accessed the IVA closure information in 
late September 2019. Its also clear that Miss W was in regular contact with PayPal 
about the error from October 2019. Yet it didnt make it clear to her what else it 
needed for some time. Had it done so, I think its likely she would have provided the 
documents it needed  given that she was putting time and effort into pursuing the 
matter. So on balance, I consider it likely PayPal should have updated Miss Ws 
credit file earlier than it did.
Miss W says PayPals delays caused her loss of earnings as it meant she didnt 
pass the pre-employment checks for the job she applied for. She initially valued 
this loss at £1.5 million. But shes now told us shed accept £8,000.
Having considered all the evidence, Im not currently persuaded that be held 
responsible for this claimed loss. There are several reasons for this:
The employer says it cant give more detail about the checks or confirm the exact
reason why Miss W didnt pass them. So I cant safely conclude that PayPals 
delay alone was the proximate cause for why she didnt pass the checks.
In saying this, I note Miss W has since reapplied, passed the checks, and been
offered a job by the employer. But this still isnt enough to conclude that that the 
initial rejection was solely down to PayPals errors. To determine whether thats 
the case, Id need to know more about what checks the employer completed, 
what these returned, and how the employer interpreted the results. And its clear 
that information isnt available.
Even if I had enough to conclude that, but for PayPals delay, Miss W would have
passed the checks initially, I wouldnt reasonably expect it to pay her for loss of
earnings. I can see that Miss W explained the situation to her prospective 
employer. It was their choice to set their own checks. And to decide, once they 
were aware of her situation, they still wouldnt keep her in the reserve pool at that 
time. It seems to me that the actions of a third party were the proximate cause of 
the loss Miss W is claiming, not PayPal. Its a new intervening act that breaks the 
chain of causation between any wrongful acts or omissions of PayPal and the 
alleged loss of earnings (which, in any event, could never realistically have been 
quantified at £1.5million given all the unknown future variables associated with a 
career and job security). 
Overall, I can only fairly hold PayPal responsible for the reasonably foreseeable
losses caused by its errors. I consider the alleged losses here too remote to hold 
it liable for anything more than compensation for distress and inconvenience.Looking at the level of loss Miss W is claiming for, whether her original or revised
figures, Id also point out that there is an expectation on individuals to mitigate 
their losses when errors occur. In this case, what Miss W has set out for loss of 
earnings doesnt seem to take into account that she could have sought other 
work to minimise her lost earnings. There is some mention that she took a 
temporary contract. That casts some doubt on the figures shes provided for her 
loss of earnings.
Ive thought holistically about the impact of PayPals errors. Im mindful that, by taking 
the IVA, Miss W has received the benefit of having the majority of the money lent by 
PayPal, in line with the terms of her credit agreement and which shes had the use of, 
written off. Not to mention the substantial other debts that were effectively written off. 
But that of course is part and parcel of having an IVA, and PayPal still ought to have 
reported the account correctly. Its clear to me there was a delay in it doing so, and 
there seems to still be an outstanding issue with the default date. Miss W has clearly 
suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. Overall, Im satisfied that £500 
compensation is a fair reflection of this.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence. PayPal has accepted 
the decision, but Miss W disagrees. Shes provided a detailed response, which Ive read 
and considered in full. Ive summarised the key points shes raised:
She says she notified PayPal of her IVA in February 2019
PayPal should have resolved the issue sooner
She didnt reapply for the job but was re-vetted and passed all the checks. Whilst 
her employer cant reveal the full criteria for security reasons, she thinks its clear 
PayPals error caused her not to pass the earlier financial vetting. Had it not been 
for that, she would have been able to take up a post earlier. 
She says shes lost one year of her career progression, and estimates her loss of 
earnings from this to be around £43,000. She also earnt around £20,500 during that 
year. She can provide further evidence about this if needed.
She couldnt access her PayPal statements, and the SAR wasnt completed within 
the regulatory timeframe
She didnt consent to the ~£1,200 transaction by PayPal
She disagrees with the £500 compensation, which she says is the lowest level of 
moderate under our compensation structure. She thinks it should be in the 
extreme or severe category.  Shes also cited case law for how she thinks we 
should award damages to her reputation, injury to feelings, stress, distress, 
inconvenience and loss of opportunity.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
My outcome isnt affected by whether Miss W notified PayPal of her IVA in February 2019, 
as she says, or later, as PayPal says. Regardless of when it was notified, its not in dispute 
that PayPal now has evidence of the IVA start date. So in accordance with the ICO 
guidance, it should backdate the default to align with this.Miss W says she couldnt access her PayPal statements, and that it took too long to respond 
to her SAR. Businesses are generally expected to respond to SARs within one month of 
receiving the request. If PayPal did take longer, I cant see this caused her to lose out 
beyond the general extent I determined in my provisional decision. And the features of 
PayPals portal system fall within its legitimate commercial discretion. Overall, I agree that 
PayPals communication fell below the expected standard  including delays responding to 
Miss W. But Im satisfied that the £500 compensation offered fairly reflects this.
Similarly, whilst I appreciate Mr Ws point about the ~£1,200 transaction, I dont think this 
was to her detriment. This was simply a workaround by PayPal to prevent its systems from 
incorrectly reporting an outstanding balance. There was no actual transfer of money. So Im 
not persuaded this was an error by PayPal which justifies further compensation.
As my provisional decision explained, I do agree with Miss W that PayPal should have 
resolved the issue sooner. What Im considering is whether the compensation offered fairly 
reflects the impact of this failure. It seems to me that the main point that remains in 
contention is how this impact should be considered and redressed. 
Miss W has cited case law to show why she thinks her award for damages to her reputation, 
injury to feelings, stress, distress, inconvenience and loss of opportunity should be higher. 
But as an alternative to the courts, our service has our own approach to compensation for 
non-financial impact  as shes seen from our website. She says that, under our 
compensation structure, £500 is the lowest level of a moderate award. But as the page 
shes referred to from our website sets out, £500 falls within our substantial range.
In any event, whilst our website gives examples of what level of awards we might make, the 
actual award depends on the individual circumstances. I know Miss W thinks her 
circumstances warrant an award within the severe or extreme range. But Im not 
persuaded the impact on her is on par with the examples given for those higher ranges. In 
line with our approach for non-financial loss, Im still satisfied that £500 fairly reflects the 
impact PayPals errors had on her. Id reassure Miss W that I havent balanced this 
compensation  for non-financial loss  against any financial benefit from the completion of 
her IVA.
Ive also considered the alleged financial impact on Miss W. This relates to her employment. 
I understand and accept her clarification that she didnt need to reapply for the role, but was 
re-vetted. I also understand what shes said about the position she thinks she would be in 
but for PayPals errors. But Ive already explained in my provisional decision why, even if I 
accept that she would have started the role earlier but for PayPals errors, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it to pay her for loss of earnings. I still consider those losses too remote, 
as the chain of causation was broken by the acts or omissions of a third party. So I dont 
require further information from her about any lost earnings, as this wont affect my outcome. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss W, who clearly feels strongly about her 
complaint. But overall, Im not minded to amend the resolution I proposed in my provisional 
decision  as Im satisfied its a fair way to resolve the matter. 
   
Putting things right
To put things right, Ive decided PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should:
Pay Miss W £500 compensation, if it hasnt already done so; and
Report to the credit reference agencies that the account defaulted on 5 February 
2019My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and 
direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman