DRN-3006578
The complaint
Mr B (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC provided him with 
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr B took six home credit loans from Morses between March 2017 and October 2019. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan amount received date repayment date term (weeks)
1 £100.00 21/03/2017 06/11/2017 33
2 £100.00 07/08/2017 12/03/2018 33
3 £300.00 12/03/2018 29/10/2018 33
4 £100.00 05/11/2018 03/06/2019 33
5 £400.00 22/01/2019 16/09/2019 33
6 £400.00 07/10/2019 15/11/2019 34
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint about 
loans 1 and 2. But, he did think by loan 3 that Mr B was committed to spending a significant 
portion of his come repaying the loan and from loan 5 the adjudicator thought the pattern of 
lending was harmful for Mr B.  Overall, the adjudicator upheld loans 3  6. 
Mr B appears to have agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicator and in summary it said;
Morses doesnt consider five loans in 22 months to be excessive.
Loan 4 was for a smaller sum because Mr B had a smaller amount of disposable 
income at the time.
At most, the repayments were 20% of Mr Bs disposable income.
There were some gaps between the loans, for example, a month between loans 5 
and 6.
All the loans were either repaid on time or early.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about these loans, and Mr B doesnt appear 
to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further about these loans, or the level of 
individual checks Morses completed before approving them, as I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about them. 
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about Mr Bs overall lending relationship 
with Morses. 
 Loans 3 and 4 
The adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint about these loans, because in his view, Mr B was 
committed to paying Morses a significant portion of his income and that led to the loans being unsustainable for him. Taking into account the individual circumstances of the case, I 
agree with the adjudicator and Ive explained why below. 
When loan 3 was approved, Mr B seems to have declared a drop in weekly income 
compared to loans 1 and 2. His income had dropped from around £160 per week to £139 
per week for loan 3, and he had the same weekly outgoings for loan 3 as he did for loan 1. 
So, by loan 3, Morses was aware, based on what Mr B declared, that his income was being 
squeezed, he wasnt earning as much but also had the same outgoings. 
So Morses, knew that with a smaller disposable weekly income Mr B was committed was 
paying £15 per week  each week for 33 weeks. This was the largest amount that Mr B had 
committing to repaying to Morses club. Loan 3 was also taken on the same day that loan 2 
was repaid, and it was for a larger sum. 
So, there was a developing picture of Mr B taking larger loans, with a larger increased 
weekly commitment at the same time, as having a decrease in his income. Morses ought to 
have realised that Mr B there was a significant risk that he wasnt going to be able to fully 
meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. Which has led me to 
conclude that Mr B wouldnt be able to sustainably make his weekly repayments for this loan 
or any subsequent loans. 
Loans 5 and 6
In in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mr B, Morses also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr B.
 
Having looked at the overall pattern of Morsess lending history with Mr B, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because;
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out 5 loans in 22 months and he had been 
indebted to Morses for most of this time. So Morses ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and 
that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs overall indebtedness was generally increased. In my view, Mr Bs loan history 
up until this point was an indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem 
to be improving. 
Mr Bs first loan was for £100 and loan 5 was for £400.  At this point Morses ought to 
have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr B took some loans around the same time previous ones were repaid, for example, 
loans 3 and 4. Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B, on 
these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term 
financial need. To me, this is an indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable;
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out over 30 months after Mr Bs first loan. And it was for the joint largest capital 
amount he borrowed of £400  this also led to Mr B having the largest weekly 
repayments. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.Ive thought about what Morses says about the gaps between loans, but in this case, I dont 
think that those gaps are significant enough to have led Morses to conclude that either there 
is a break in lending, or that Mr B was no longer reliant on this type of credit. 
I think that Mr B lost out when Morses provided loans 5 and 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 - 6 and Ill go on to set out
what Morses should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 3 - 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement* and
remove any negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Bs credit file. The 
number of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 5 and 6 should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman