DRN-4380236
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited damaged his television stand and 
speaker while in for repair.
What happened
Mr A had contents insurance, including accidental damage, underwritten by Admiral. He 
accidentally damaged his television (TV) when cleaning and claimed under the policy. 
Admiral accepted the claim, collected the TV, and arranged a repair. Mr A preferred a cash 
settlement, which Admiral paid. 
At his request, Admiral returned the TV to Mr A. But he noticed damage on the stand and 
speaker which he said wasnt there when Admiral collected the TV. Mr A complained to 
Admiral about the damage. He also asked Admiral to provide him with a copy of the 
technicians report and the TV fixings which hadnt been returned.
Admiral returned the fixings, paid £50 compensation for not returning them sooner, and 
provided a copy of the report. But Admiral didnt accept responsibility for any damage. 
The circumstances are well known to both parties so, rather than repeat all the detail here, 
Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
To begin with, I note that Admiral returned the TV fixings to Mr A after he complained. It paid 
£50 compensation by way of apology. Admiral also sent the technician report to him, 
although I understand Mr A wasn't happy with the lack of detail. 
As Admiral provided everything Mr A asked for, theres nothing further for me to consider in 
respect of these two elements of his complaint.
The remaining issue is that Mr A complains Admiral damaged his TV speaker and stand 
while in its possession. Admiral denies causing any damage.
For me to uphold this element of Mr As complaint, Id need to see evidence that shows the 
TV was, more likely than not, damaged while in Admirals care. Theres a lot of evidence 
available and I wont comment on everything, but I havent seen anything which persuades 
me Admiral was at fault.
The key pieces of evidence are the photos of Mr As TV before collection and after Admiral 
returned it. Mr A provided photos of his TV in his home taken before the accidental damage 
which resulted in his claim. The photos arent close up images but there doesnt appear to 
be any obvious damage to the speaker or stand. Mr A confirms this. Admirals report said the 
stand was in good condition with some wear marks, but no physical damage.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied the TV was not damaged when Admiral collected it for 
repair.
Admiral confirmed it would be able to repair the screen, but Mr A preferred to cash settle. 
Hed already bought a replacement TV on the understanding that Admiral would be unable 
to carry out a repair. Mr A accepted the cash settlement and asked for his TV stand and 
speaker to be returned to him.
Admiral returned the equipment and left it with the concierge of Mr As building. Ive looked 
at the photo of the stand and speaker in the concierges room. Its a clear photo, which 
appears to be proof of delivery, and theres no damage visible. I accept that the photo 
doesnt show all parts of the equipment but, on the face of it, the evidence suggests Admiral 
returned the stand and speaker undamaged.
Mr A confirmed that he collected the equipment from the concierge on the evening Admiral 
returned it. Two days later he inspected it and reported to Admiral that there was damage. 
Mr A provided close up photos of the damage which show part of the stand dislodged, and 
scratches/dents around the surface edges.
Looking at the photos, it's difficult to determine how deep the scratches are, so I cant say 
with any certainty that they are signs of wear, or evidence that the damage was caused 
through lack of care. However, the damage evident on the stand in Mr As photos is not 
visible on the stand in the concierge photos. 
Based on the evidence, I think its more likely than not that the damage Mr A complained 
about happened after Admiral returned the TV stand and speaker. Thats because:
the photos dont show damage before collection or after Admiral delivered the 
equipment to the concierge;
Mr A noticed damage after the TV stand and speaker had been with the concierge, at 
which time they were no longer Admirals responsibility.
Ive noted Mr As disbelief that the damage was due to wear and tear. When looking at the 
photos, I considered that some of the damage to the edge of the stand might be consistent 
with impact from, say, a vacuum cleaner. So, I dont think referring to that as wear would be 
unreasonable. But, whether or not the damage was wear and tear, Im persuaded by the 
evidence that Admiral is not responsible.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr As complaint and I wont be asking Admiral to pay 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman