DRN-4194164
The complaint
Mr S complains that OakNorth Bank plc (OakNorth) wrongly opened multiple accounts in 
his name and showed an account as empty despite his making several deposits to it.
What happened
Mr S attempted to open a single 90 Day Notice account with OakNorth on 16 August 2020
through an online application. OakNorth says that Mr S made two applications on the same
day, and that two accounts were therefore automatically set up by its system. Mr S says that
the system would not, and ought not to, have allowed this, as the screen changed upon his
clicking submit.
Two accounts were set up. The nature of these accounts was that payments needed to be
made to them in order to keep them open. Mr S made three large payments to an account
between 17 and 20 August 2020. OakNorths system shows that these were applied to one
of the accounts. The other, however, had received no deposits. OakNorths system sent
automatic requests to Mr S to fund this second account.
Around 22 August 2020, OakNorth noticed that Mr S already had a profile on their system. It
says that multiple profiles are not permitted in order to comply with legal and regulatory
requirements. It says that it moved the two new accounts to the existing profile, which
generated new account numbers. OakNorth says that this ought to have been a seamless
process, with Mr Ss funds showing in his online banking at all times. But the bank says that
the move was delayed by high volumes of work, and that Mr Ss funds would not have
shown in his account for a period of around 24 hours. It says that it emailed Mr S during this
period, on 22 August 2020, to explain the ongoing process and the correct account balance.
On 26 August 2020, OakNorth closed the second account which had been opened in error.
OakNorth agrees that there were shortcomings in the way in which it dealt with Mr S. It paid
him £50 to reflect these.
Mr S says that he was left extremely concerned by both the multiple account numbers and
the fact that his funds were not showing in his account on 22 August 2020. He says that the
multiple accounts and account numbers caused him to fear that he had been the victim of a
scam and had lost a very large sum of money. He attempted to contact the bank, but was
unable to get through in the telephone. He emailed OakNorth, which led to the explanation
email sent on 22 August 2020.
Our investigator thought that OakNorth had treated Mr S fairly. They thought that Mr S had
opened multiple accounts in error, and that OakNorth had explained the situation promptly to
him, making clear when the funds would be showing in his account.
Mr S did not agree and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman. That ombudsman 
issued provisional findings which were different to our investigators:
I have considered the initial opening of two accounts. OakNorths system shows that 
two applications were made on the same day by Mr S. Their system does not involve 
any manual check or input at this stage from a staff member. The system generated 
the account numbers in response to the applications. While I am satisfied that Mr S 
did not intend to open two accounts, I cannot say that it is more likely than not an 
error at the banks end which caused the duplication. While I understand Mr Ss point 
about the screen changing upon clicking submit, this does not mean that the button 
could not have been clicked twice at his end by mistake. I do not think that the bank 
got anything wrong at that stage.
The funding requests for the second account were also sent automatically. I think 
that is reasonable for an account which requires such funding. These automatic 
reminders are a sensible way of reminding customers what they must do to get their 
account up and running. I do not think the bank was acting unfairly in sending them, 
where it wasnt aware that the second account had been set up in error.
Migrating the accounts to an existing profile was also fair. OakNorth says that legal 
and regulatory requirements mean that multiple profiles can cause issues, and I am 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable to shift the accounts as it did in response to 
this. That this led to two new account numbers does not make it unfair. But I think it 
was unfair and unreasonable to take this step without warning Mr S.
OakNorth says that high volumes of work were causing delays. That is reasonable, 
but I also think it would have been fair for it to have warned Mr S about what it was 
doing and how this would appear to him. It should have known that Mr Ss funds 
would seem to disappear from his account for a period of time. It should have known 
that customers might use their online banking at any time. So it should have warned 
Mr S of the possibility and the timescale of his funds seeming to disappear before it 
migrated the accounts. I accept that OakNorth may not have done that because of 
delays it was facing  but the impact of not doing so was that Mr S was confused and 
worried by it taking actions which he didnt understand.
Mr S has described the distress that the apparent disappearance of the funds caused 
him. I think that his position is a reasonable one. His worry about a scam was a 
sensible one, and his personal circumstances heightened his concern. This was a 
large sum of money, and he was concerned about the multiple account numbers 
already. While the bank provided a proper explanation on the afternoon of the day he 
was able to complain that the funds were gone, he was extremely distressed in the 
meantime. The explanation came a full day after the disappearance. I do not 
consider that the £50 already paid is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused in the meantime. Given the period and the sums involved, I 
consider that the bank should pay him a further £100, giving a total of £150.
OakNorth responded and accepted the ombudsmans findings but Mr S didnt respond to us. 
So the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with my colleagues findings. I also note that OakNorth has 
accepted his recommendations and has told us that Mr S has been in touch expecting it to 
pay what my colleague recommended, although this service hasnt heard from him directly. 
For clarity, my colleagues findings were provisional  giving both sides an opportunity to 
respond. As that deadline has now passed and neither party has suggested that they 
disagree with what he said, I see no reason to depart from what my colleague suggested as 
a fair and reasonable outcome here. So its this that OakNorth should now do.My final decision
OakNorth Bank plc must pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman