DRN-1682399
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), who were trading at the time as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
The adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicator, so 
the case has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mrs S completed at the time. I 
can see that to get the PPI Mrs S had to mark a box for it. The box is marked and Mrs S has 
signed the form which suggests her agreement to its contents. If Mrs S hadnt wanted the 
PPI, she could have left the box unmarked. So, it seems most likely that Mrs S wanted this 
sort of cover and would have known she had a choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Mrs S cant remember whether or not recommendations were given to take the policy. 
Barclays say it recommended the PPI to Mrs S. As this puts more responsibility on Barclays 
for how it sold the PPI, Ive looked at the complaint on the basis advice was given. This 
means Barclays had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S. And looking at his 
circumstances at the time I think it was. I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible for the policy as she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions 
of the policy terms and conditions which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim. 
Mrs S also seemed to have had a need for the cover. At the time she took out PPI, 
Mrs S has said she was entitled to at least six months full sick pay from her 
employer, followed by six months at the rate of half pay. As the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay, and in this case for longer than her employer would have paid 
her at her full rate of pay, this couldve been useful for Mrs S, as she didnt have any 
savings at the time. Mrs S has also said that she was entitled to a payment if she 
died in service. But that wouldnt have helped her if she was too ill to work, or if she 
lost her job.  
Theres nothing to show me Mrs S couldnt afford the policy and the premium was 
comparable to that of other policies from the time which offered similar levels of 
cover.
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs S. 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs S, Barclays also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for her, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her from buying it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I do not 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman