DRN-3520900
The complaint
Miss J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse money she lost when she 
fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss J was looking to learn to trade and  in September 2020  came across a company 
called 365CapitalMarkets. She phoned the companys customer service number after 
checking customer reviews on Trustpilot and various online forums. 
Miss J told the representative from 365CapitalMarkets that she wanted to learn to trade to 
replace her income from her second (weekend) job which shed lost during the pandemic. 
She was assigned an account manager who told her that he would guide and show her 
trading strategies that could make her around £500, and possibly more, per month. And that 
he would keep an eye on her trades on her behalf during the week, when she might be busy 
at work. 
Miss J agreed to open a trading account with 365CapitalMarkets (which later turned out to 
be fraudulent) and paid a small deposit. To facilitate trading on her account, Miss J 
transferred money from her current account with another bank to her Monzo account, and 
then made payments using her Monzo debit card. Shes explained that she moved funds 
between her current accounts as her main bank charged a non-sterling transaction fee, and 
the deposits to her trading account were in Euro. 
Miss Js also said that unbeknownst to her, the fraudster opened a cryptocurrency wallet in 
her name using the identification verification documents she provided to open her trading 
account. While she thought payments made using her Monzo debit card were being credited 
to her trading account, the funds were actually transferred to the crypto wallet before being 
sent on to the fraudsters account.
 
Miss J was persuaded to send more funds after seeing profits that were made on her 
trades. She states that she had scheduled phone calls with her account manager two to 
three times a week and trusted him. But things changed when she asked to make a 
withdrawal. Miss J says her account manager became aggressive towards her and she was 
told to deposit even more money to withdraw her available balance or risk losing everything. 
She emailed the compliance department, but this was ignored. 
One day, Miss Js account managers phone number and email address stopped working. 
She was contacted by another representative who said hed taken over and would help her 
out. Miss J was told she needed to pay £1,000 to cover taxes and the funds would then be 
released. Desperate to get her initial investment back, she paid the money. But she was 
unable to make a withdrawal.
Over the next few weeks, Miss J contacted 365CapitalMarkets continuously by phone and 
email and subsequently learnt that all her money had been lost. She says she wrote 85 
negative reviews (which have since been deleted by the reviews website) and eventually 
contacted Monzo to report the scam. She also contacted the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), Action Fraud, and the police.  
The following transactions were made using Miss Js Monzo debit card: 
Date Merchant Amount
17 September 2020 Pay.*.NGA £194.37
21 September 2020 Bitxtech.com £4,581.00
22 September 2020 Bitxtech.com £2,954.67
8 October 2020 Bitxtech.com £3,938.80
14 October 2020 Bitxtech.com £5,444.40
15 October 2020 Bitxtech.com £5,472.60
2 February 2021 Cryptonet.exchange £1,000.00
Total loss £23,585.84
Monzo declined to refund the transactions or raise a chargeback. Miss J complained and 
unhappy with its response she referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator concluded that Monzo didnt act unfairly in raising a chargeback. He also 
considered whether Monzo ought to have done more to prevent the payments from being 
sent in the first instance. It was his view that Monzo ought to have intervened when Miss J 
authorised the payment of £2,954.67 on 22 September 2020 as it appeared unusual. 
Had Monzo done so, the investigator thought that the scam would have unfolded, and further 
losses would have been prevented. He recommended Monzo to refund all the payments 
from that point onwards along with interest.
Monzo appreciated that Miss J was scammed, but it disagreed with the investigators 
findings. In summary, it said:
Some financial institutions had banned transactions to cryptocurrency platforms and 
it often saw people loading Monzo accounts to make large-value payments to 
cryptocurrency exchanges that would otherwise look out of place.
The source of funds was another account in Miss Js name and as payments 
continued over a reasonable period of time Monzo had no reason to interrupt a 
significant amount of legitimate payment journeys.
Monzo had no interaction with 365CapitalMarket and had no idea that Miss J was 
attempting to perform binary trades. As it wasnt involved in the scam, it shouldnt be 
held liable.
The disputed transactions didnt trigger its systems as while they were new for 
Miss Js account, it wasnt unusual behaviour across Monzos customer base or 
wider banking industry.
An intervention may have made a difference to Miss Js decision-making, but Monzo 
has no reason to stop hundreds of customers a day legitimately spending their 
money.
Miss J responded and requested that all seven transactions are refunded.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovery
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  MasterCard in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. 
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss J was dealing with a company called 365CapitalMarkets. Given the information Ive 
found about it during my research, Im satisfied Miss J fell victim to a scam rather than 
simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. 
But Miss J didnt make the debit card payments to 365CapitalMarkets; she paid three 
separate cryptocurrency payment processor and exchange firms. This is important because 
Monzo was only able to chargeback against the merchant she paid, not another party (such 
as 365CapitalMarkets). 
The service provided by the merchants would be to convert or facilitate conversion of 
Miss Js payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant she made the payments to 
did provide the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt 
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Miss J paid. 
Duty of care
While I dont think that Monzo could have done more with regards to the recovery of Miss Js 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
The disputed payments were authorised by Miss J using her debit card and associated 
security credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, shes considered liable unless 
theres evidence that Monzo could and should reasonably have done more to protect her 
against the risk of fraud and scams, and that this would have made a difference to her 
decision-making.
Monzo ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer was at risk of 
fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before processing payments or 
declining them altogether to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered Monzos argument that it didnt know Miss J was performing binary trades as 
the payments were sent to cryptocurrency exchanges. I accept that buying cryptocurrency is 
a legitimate exercise. But both the FCA and Action Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency 
exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019, Action Fraud published further 
warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is something that 
regulated businesses, including Monzo, ought to take notice of. Monzo states that theres been an increase in customers loading their Monzo account and 
making high-value transactions to cryptocurrency exchanges because some other payment 
service providers have banned such transactions. But even if Miss J had been sending 
money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it didnt follow that her money was safe, or 
that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. 
By the time Miss J made the payments, I think Monzo had or ought to have had a good 
enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of 
harm from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and 
moves it on to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet 
or trading account. So, Im not persuaded by Monzos comments.
I wouldnt have expected Monzo to have picked up the disputed payments as being 
suspicious solely based on the merchant names. There were no regulator warnings in place 
about them when Miss J made the payments. But this isnt the end of the matter. 
Ive considered the operation of Miss Js account in the year leading up to the payments. 
This is to determine whether they were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think Monzo 
ought to have intervened. 
I dont consider the first payment was out of character for Miss Js account activity. Although 
the second payment was of a much higher value and going to a new payee, in my view it 
wasnt so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think Monzo ought to have intervened. Afterall, it 
isnt unusual to make a one-off payment thats higher than the usual account activity. 
But by the time Miss J made the third payment (the next day), I think it ought to have 
triggered an alert on Monzos systems and I consider it would have been reasonable for it to 
have paused the payment pending further investigation. Given the quick succession of the 
second and third payments, the frequency of payments to the same payee, the amounts 
involved, and the fact that the payment was to a cryptocurrency exchange, I consider it 
would have been reasonable for Monzo to have properly questioned Miss J before executing 
her authorised instruction. 
Had Monzo carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss J about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was doing and the true 
purpose of her payment to the cryptocurrency exchange. She had been given no reason to 
think she had to hide this information from her bank, and neither had she been coached by 
365CapitalMarkets to tell them something different.
At the time of the third payment, there wasnt information available to Monzo that 
365CapitalMarkets was involved in a scam. The earliest regulator warning wasnt published 
until November 2020, when the Belgian regulator added 365CapitalMarkets to its list of 
fraudulent online trading platforms. So, I accept that Monzo had no duty to protect Miss J 
from a poor investment choice or give investment advice. But it could have provided 
information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, 
that they are dealing with a legitimate person or firm  such as checking that the firm was 
regulated in the UK or abroad. 
Monzo could have also drawn on its own knowledge and information that was in the public 
domain  mentioned above  about the high risk associated with cryptocurrency and 
Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading and the potential for fraud. It could have also provided 
Miss J with a potential scam warning.
Had Monzo done more, Im satisfied that Miss J would have looked further into the 
investment opportunity in general, including whether 365CapitalMarkets was regulated here in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered that it wasnt. She could have also 
discovered that her payments werent directly going to her trading account. Indeed, its likely 
that Miss J would have come across the various scam warnings involving cryptocurrency 
exchanges. 
Im persuaded that a meaningful intervention from Monzo would likely have exposed the 
scam. And I think its more likely than not that the intervention would have caused Miss J to 
stop from going ahead with the payment, thereby preventing further losses. I therefore hold 
Monzo liable for these losses.
Contributory negligence
Ive also carefully thought about whether Miss J is partly to blame for what happened. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded that she is. 
Miss Js told us that apart from holding an ISA with a high-street bank, she had no other 
investment experience. But she did carry out some research on 365CapitalMarkets before 
deciding to invest. A bank might be knowledgeable about checking for regulation, etc. but I 
dont believe the same could be said for a layperson, particularly when they have little or no 
investment experience.
I dont think Miss J could have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with was 
a scam. And although she had become concerned with 365CapitalMarkets when she 
unsuccessfully tried to make a withdrawal in late 2020, Miss J made a further payment of 
£1,000 as she genuinely believed that she needed to pay tax for the funds to be released. 
She simply didnt appreciate what she was doing or the consequences of her actions.
All in all, Im satisfied that there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Miss J 
was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; she was a layperson.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to reimburse Miss J all the disputed payments 
from 22 September 2020 onwards as set out in the table above. That means payments three 
to seven. 
As the account Miss J transferred the money from to facilitate the debit card payments was 
also a current account, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Monzo to also add 
simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date of loss to the date of settlement (less 
any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Monzo 
Bank Ltd to put things right for Miss J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman