DRN-2968482
The complaint
Mrs A complains that NewDay Ltd didnt refund payments she disputed on her credit card
account and has registered a default.
What happened
Mrs A contacted NewDay to report a number of payments made using her card in
Amsterdam as fraudulent. These came to nearly £2,380 and had all been made on 25
January 2020. Mrs A told NewDay that she hadnt travelled abroad and that the last time she
had used her card was the day before in a local supermarket. She told it that she had kept
her PIN safe by memorising it and not writing it down. And she hadnt allowed anyone else to
use her card.
NewDay said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that payments were made when the
chip on the card was read and the PIN entered. And it didnt accept that these were made by
an unknown third party. It held Mrs A liable for the balance and as she hadnt made required
repayments it had registered a default.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded with
interest and charges and the default removed from Mrs As credit file.
She said that the payments were authenticated with Mrs As details. But a large part of the
spending was for luxury brands abroad which was out of character. She thought it plausible
that someone had seen Mrs A use her card and PIN in the supermarket at about lunchtime
on 24 January 2020. And there were no set rules for how a fraudster would act and so why
that person couldnt have kept the card, travelled to Amsterdam and only started to use it
from 25 hours later. Mrs As representative had tried to prove she didnt make the payments
and Mrs A hadnt raised any similar claims in the past. Our investigator didnt think that
Mrs A consented to these payments being made.
NewDay didnt agree and said it wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It said that
the complaint shouldnt be upheld based on assumptions and potentials but that the balance
of probabilities should be applied. It thought it unlikely someone in possession of Mrs As
card and PIN would wait 25 hours to use it. There had been no contact with police. The 
information pointed to either Mrs A making the payments, or someone known to her doing so
with her consent.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 1 August 2021 and I said that I wasnt 
intending to uphold it. I set out below what I said.
I said that I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is 
most likely. I needed to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to 
think about whether Mrs A authorised the payments from her account. Thats more than the 
payments being authenticated but would require her to consent to them. Where credit is 
involved as on a credit card account here, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it 
states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they 
consented to someone else having possession of that card.
I asked our investigator to obtain some more information from NewDay about what alerts if
any were sent about the disputed payments, what caused the payments to stop and how
they were authenticated. And whether, as it inferred was possible in the final response, any
payments were made using a contactless facility on the card.
NewDay has said that all the payments were made when the chip on the card was read and
the PIN entered. Ive seen a copy of an audit log showing that. Im satisfied that these were
authenticated with Mrs As card information.
NewDay has explained that one of the payments, for the sterling equivalent of around £30,
triggered an alert at 22:05 that evening and this led to the card being blocked. This wasnt
because it says it knew the payment was fraudulent, but its systems took into account the
volume and value of previous payments that day. A balance enquiry using the card was
then made at 23:20 and an attempt to draw out cash from a cash machine declined. There
are no other reported attempts to use the card after that.
It has explained that although it told our investigator that no text message was sent to Mrs A
about the payments, that wasnt correct. It was too late to phone her that evening and it has
shown that instead it sent a text message on as far as I can determine the next day at 17:13.
Mrs A responded to that text message at 22:11 to say she didnt recognise the payments.
And she called to report the fraud at 22:29 and was able to speak to the fraud team the
following day to discuss what had happened with the help of her representative.
The fraud alert on the account is consistent with an unusual pattern of payments but it
doesnt show there was actual fraud. In addition, Mrs As explanation that she responded to
a text message gives an explanation of how she found out about the payments if she didnt
authorise them. She has as our investigator has stated consistently said she didnt make the
payments and attempted to find evidence of this with her representatives help.
But I said that I thought that the following points indicate that it is unlikely these were 
fraudulent payments:
- The only possible point of compromise for the PIN Mrs A puts forward is when she 
used the card in the supermarket the day before. It seems to me highly unlikely that 
an opportunistic fraudster able to obtain her card and having seen her PIN wouldnt 
attempt to use the card quickly. Even if that person had come up with a plan to use 
the card abroad there was no attempt at any test payment or to determine whether it 
would be worthwhile to go abroad to use any available limit on the card.
- So, I find it highly unlikely that a fraudster in possession of the card would wait over a 
day to use it to make payments. That person risked the loss of the card being 
detected at any time and the card then becoming useless. And that person could 
have been in Amsterdam within a matter of several hours if that had been the plan.
- Even when the card was being used there was no attempt to make a balance enquiry 
before over £2,300 of purchases made in a number of separate transactions over the 
course of a day. And there was no attempt to withdraw cash until late that evening.
I needed to think about potential scenarios here.
an unknown third party took the card and discovered the PIN and made the payments.
For the reasons Id explained I thought that this is unlikely. someone known to Mrs A was able to take the card and find out the PIN without her knowing
Mrs A has been clear that she has kept her PIN safe. She hasnt explained how someone
else could have taken her card from her without her knowing. Or how that person could have
known the PIN. She hasnt identified anyone who had access to her property that could have
done this without her knowing.
either Mrs A made the payments, or she consented to someone known to her having her
card
Mrs A hasnt been able to provide evidence she was in this country at the time the payments
were made. And she has explained that she was able to make previous trips abroad
including in November 2019. But even if she was here that doesnt rule out her giving
someone else the card. NewDay says she hasnt reported this matter to police, and this
could be consistent with someone known to her making the payments. If she had allowed
someone to have her card and disclosed the PIN then she would be responsible for what
that person did with the card. I appreciated that her position is that this never happened. But
having considered the other possible explanations I found that this is the most likely scenario
applying a balance of probabilities test.
the credit card balance and default
That meant I provisionally found Mrs A is responsible for the payments and the account 
balance. And given this I didnt think NewDay should reasonably have restricted the use of 
the card and account any earlier than it did.
So, I thought NewDay was entitled to expect her to make repayments as it requested her to 
do. As she knew its position and didnt make the payments I also thought it was entitled to 
register a default. I appreciated the impact of this for her and that she will be very 
disappointed by my conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay said it didnt have any further comments to make.
Mrs A didnt agree with my provisional decision and her representative made a number of 
comments on her behalf. He said that they did call the police but were told that as the 
transactions happened abroad they would need to contact police abroad. It hadnt been 
proven that Mrs A was out of the country. She had never bought items in luxury shops 
before and she had always paid her bills on time. This pattern of payments didnt make 
sense for her. Mrs A also didnt consent to anyone else using her card. It is possible that 
someone shoulder surfed her when she last used the card for a genuine payment. This isnt 
a fair decision and the representative wanted to know what other proof could be provided.
I have considered these further comments carefully. It was a matter for Mrs A to provide any 
further evidence in response to my findings. I had raised some further questions from 
NewDay before reaching my provisional decision  as I referred to above. And I consider I 
have the information and evidence I need to make a decision about the complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that I am thinking about what is most likely. I wont be 
able to say exactly what happened and for example say it was Mrs A who personally made the payments. I am thinking about whether it is most likely she consented to them. I note 
what is said about this being reported to police and have no reason to doubt the response. 
That wasnt something that was brought to NewDays attention based on what its said. But it 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome in my assessment now and there is no evidence of 
a police investigation taking place. Id already referred to and noted the pattern of disputed 
payments on the account and I accept that this was different to the way the account had 
been used before. I cant know whether Mrs A was in this country at the time of the 
payments. But that doesnt preclude her consenting to the use of her card by someone else 
and for that person to make the payments described as I explained above. So, I dont need 
to resolve where Mrs A was to make a decision about this complaint.
There is no new evidence that assists me and I have thought about the further points made. 
Having done I still think for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision and having 
weighed everything up that the most likely explanation is that Mrs A consented to the use of 
her card in this way to make the payments. I explained why I didnt think it likely that her PIN 
had been discovered when she last used it and a fraudster would wait so long before 
attempting any use of the card at all. And I still think it was reasonable for NewDay to hold 
her responsible for the payments and for the balance. So, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more. 
I fully understand how disappointed Mrs A will be by my decision. If she doesnt accept it she 
remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman