DRN-3251713
The complaint
Mr F and Miss M have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s 
decision to reject a claim they made under their home and buildings insurance policy. 
All references to the insurer RSA in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr F and Miss M bought a home and buildings insurance policy with RSA through a broker 
via a comparison website. The sale of the policy was on a non advised basis. In other 
words, Mr F and Miss M bought the policy without receiving any advice as to the suitability of 
the policy for their needs. 
Mr F and Miss M made a claim to RSA as there was movement damage to their home which 
they thought may be caused by subsidence. RSA delegated the handling of the claim to a 
claims handling group who appointed a surveyor to inspect their home. 
The surveyor didnt find the damage was consistent with being caused by subsidence. It was 
later discovered that the cause of damage was due to works carried out by a neighbour. 
When suitable rectification had taken place to properly support the neighbours works, the 
damage settled. 
RSA declined the claim for subsidence damage. It said the only way it could possibly have 
considered the claim was as Accidental Damage. But as Mr F and Miss M hadnt bought this 
as an optional extra when they bought the policy, RSA couldnt assist. 
Mr F and Miss M say the policy isnt suitable for their circumstances and they believe RSA 
should meet their claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt find that RSA 
had acted unreasonably or outside of the policy terms. And as Mr F and Miss M had bought 
the policy without taking advice, he didnt find this was something RSA was responsible for. 
Mr F and Miss M want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that the circumstances Mr F and Miss M have found themselves in as a result 
of the damage caused to their home has caused considerable distress and worry. My role is 
to consider whether RSA - as the insurer of the policy - acted reasonably and in line with the 
terms of the policy when they made a claim. 
Insurance policies dont provide cover for every eventuality. Standard insurance policies 
provide cover for specific perils such as flood, fire, theft, and subsidence. When Mr F and 
Miss M made a claim, RSA investigated it to see if the cause of damage was due to an 
insured peril. As it wasnt, I cant say that it acted unreasonably. RSA was able to look at 
whether it might have considered the claim if Mr F and Miss M had accidental damage cover 
which they had the option to buy when the bought the policy. However, as Mr F and Miss M 
didnt buy this additional cover, RSA couldnt consider their claim. And I can see that Mr F 
and Miss M have rightly referred to an exclusion for faulty workmanship  which may have 
impacted on the success of a claim under accidental damage anyway. 
When a customer chooses to buy an insurance policy, they have the choice to seek advice 
as to the suitability of the product they are buying. I understand that Mr F and Miss M feel 
the policy with RSA isnt suitable for any customer in their circumstances. But that isnt 
something I can hold RSA responsible for  as it offered an insurance product without 
providing any advice to Mr F and Miss M of its suitability. This was a decision Mr F and Miss 
M made. And when they received their policy documents, they had a further 14 days to 
change their mind if - having read the documentation - they decided the policy didnt meet 
their needs. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr F and Miss M. But having considered everything, I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably in declining their claim as it wasnt covered under the policy. And 
so this means I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman