DRN-2885849
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc applied interest to her credit card balance, which 
shed understood to be interest-free. She complains that they didnt make it clear that 
interest would be charged - and that they should block cash transactions until theyre 
authorised by the account holder.
What happened
Ms T took out a Sainsburys credit card so she could take advantage of their promotional 0% 
interest rate.
 
On 12 February 2021 Ms T used her Sainsburys credit card to repay a car finance 
agreement with another bank, which Ill refer to as Bank S. Three days later Sainsburys 
issued her monthly statement, showing no interest charges applied to the account. But a 
month later, when she received her next statement, Ms T discovered shed been charged 
interest. She immediately complained to Sainsburys and paid off the full balance, including 
the interest charges.
 
Sainsburys responded to Ms Ts complaint, saying theyd done nothing wrong. They said 
they had no control over the way Bank S had processed the payment, which had been 
described as travel money. Sainsburys said this transaction was classed as a cash 
advance, which wasnt included in the 0% promotional offer on their credit card. But they 
recognised Ms T had repaid the balance - they arranged for no further interest to be charged 
against the transaction.
Still dissatisfied, Ms T complained to us that the interest hadnt been applied to her account 
for over a month  and that shed paid her balance off in full as soon as shed been made 
aware of these charges. She said shed only entered into the finance agreement due to 
COVID19 restrictions on buying a car. She felt the interest rate Sainsburys charged wasnt 
reasonable for such a short period of time, because it didnt reflect the cost theyd incurred 
and could cause some customers to spiral into debt.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. He thought Sainsburys had charged 
interest in accordance with the terms and conditions of their credit card agreement  and 
that theyd given Ms T clear information about how they view finance payments. He didnt 
think it had made any difference that the transaction had been incorrectly described as 
travel money by Bank S. He felt Sainsburys statement dated 15 February 2021 correctly 
showed that no interest had been charged at that point, but that the balance was accruing 
interest. He said he didnt have the power to direct Sainsburys to block particular types of 
transactions or to limit the amount of interest they charge their customers. 
Ms T disagreed with the investigators view, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Sainsburys must follow. Businesses must consider what information customers need, and 
communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive considered Ms Ts 
complaint with this principle in mind. 
Sainsburys have supplied a copy of the information Ms T wouldve received with her credit 
card. Ive read the important information set out in the summary box, which highlights the 
key features of the account, as well as reviewing the full terms and conditions. Im satisfied 
that, at the top of the summary box, its made clear that the introductory rate of 0% would 
apply to all purchases and balance transfers for a period of 20 months  but that this doesnt 
apply to cash advances or money transfers. 
The terms and conditions include a glossary, which explains the meaning of some of the 
words Sainsburys use. It says a cash advance includes finance payments made with the 
card. A finance payment means using the card to repay finance such as a loan agreement 
or hire purchase agreement. As Ms T has told us she used the card to repay her car finance 
agreement, Im satisfied Sainsburys were entitled to charge interest on that transaction as 
set out in their account terms and conditions. I dont consider the incorrect description of the 
transaction as travel money to have made any difference to the outcome here.
I can appreciate Ms Ts frustration that she hadnt been aware shed be charged interest on 
the transaction  and that she wouldve acted differently if shed realised this. Ive gone on to 
consider whether the information Sainsburys provided in their monthly statements was clear 
and not misleading.
 
Sainsburys account terms and conditions state that, when they charge interest on a 
transaction, they do so from the date the amount was first charged to the account. In this 
case Sainsburys records show that Ms Ts payment cleared on 15 February 2021, which is 
the date the transaction was charged to her account. As interest is charged daily, no interest 
would begin to accrue until the following day. So, Im satisfied that Ms Ts statement dated 
15 February 2021 correctly records the transaction that day with no interest having accrued. 
Ive given careful thought to whether the February 2021 statement made it clear that interest 
was going to be charged. The account summary information at the top shows the next 
months estimated interest to be £142.59. More information about this is provided at the 
bottom of the statement, in the rates of interest section. This shows how much of Ms Ts 
outstanding balance relates to purchases, cash, balance transfers and money transfers 
made, together with the rate of interest that applies to each of these different types of 
transaction. It shows the full balance of her account to be from a cash transaction with an 
interest rate of 23.29%. For these reasons Im unable to say the statement was unclear or 
misleading.
I understand Miss Ts frustration that she only entered into a car finance agreement with 
Bank S due to COVID19. She says she wouldnt have used her Sainsburys card to repay 
this if shed been aware that theyd consider this as a cash advance  and that theyd charge 
more interest than the cost of an equivalent loan. Ive considered the points Ms T has made 
about this.
 
It wouldnt be appropriate for me to discuss other options that may have been available to 
Ms T to finance the purchase of her car - I can only consider whether Sainsburys acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way they processed her credit card transaction. There are no rules or 
best practice guidelines about the rates of interest businesses charge on different types of agreement, so long as those charges are made clear to customers. As Im satisfied Ms T 
was given clear information about interest charges when she opened the account and in her 
monthly statements, it follows that I dont find Sainsburys to have treated her unfairly here.
Sainsburys say they cant monitor every individual cash transaction and determine if it is 
administered correctly. In certain circumstances a transaction may be put on hold while 
further enquiries are made with the account holder, such as where fraud is suspected. But 
there are currently no rules or best practice guidelines suggesting this kind of measure 
should be put in place for all cash advances made using credit cards. So, although I realise 
Ms T will be disappointed with this decision, I dont consider Sainsburys to have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman