DRN-1866306
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has only partly settled a medical 
expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a travel insurance policy online. During the sales process, she declared that 
she suffered from high blood pressure, high cholesterol and had suffered a mini-stroke. IPA 
agreed to cover these conditions. 
A couple of days later, Mrs M travelled abroad. Unfortunately, while she was away, she was 
admitted to hospital suffering from a chest infection. She made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy for the medical expenses shed incurred. 
IPA accepted the claim. But having obtained a copy of Mrs Ms medical records, it noted that 
shed received treatment for a vitamin deficiency; insomnia and a panic attack. It said if shed 
declared those conditions, her premium wouldve been higher. It said shed only paid 
73.41% of the premium she shouldve paid  so it only paid that proportion of the claim. It 
told Mrs M shed need to pay the remaining 26.59% of the outstanding medical expenses.
Mrs M was unhappy with IPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt IPA had asked clear 
questions about Mrs Ms medical history, which shouldve led her to declare the vitamin 
deficiency, insomnia and panic attack. He felt IPA had shown that if Mrs M had declared all 
of her conditions, it wouldve charged her more for her policy. So he felt it was entitled to 
only pay a proportion of her claim.
Mrs M disagreed. She accepted she shouldve declared the vitamin deficiency. But she said 
her GP had told her that her intermittent insomnia was down to the menopause. So she 
didnt think it was a condition in its own right and she didnt take regular medication for it. 
And shed had a one-off panic attack because of a traumatic and distressing family situation. 
She also felt that none of these conditions were linked to the chest infection she suffered 
abroad.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPAs settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
When Mrs M took out the policy online, she was asked information about herself, her trip and 
her medical conditions. IPA used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mrs M 
and if so, on what terms.
IPA says that Mrs M didnt correctly answer the questions she was asked during the medical 
screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mrs Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mrs M was asked when she took out the policy.
Mrs M bought the policy through a comparison website. IPA has provided us with some 
screenshots which show what happened at the time of sale. One screen asked whether Mrs 
M had any pre-existing medical conditions which she needed to declare. 
This screen included an information box underneath which said: 
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip, its important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this may invalidate your policy. Examples 
include diabetes; high blood pressure; depression and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma).
It seems Mrs M answered yes to the question and was then taken through to medical 
screening. Our investigator carried out a dummy application process to see what questions 
Mrs M was asked. As this was only roughly five months after Mrs M bought the policy, I think 
its most likely the questions were at least very similar, especially because IPA says it 
needed to know about a policyholders medical history over the previous two years. One of 
the questions Mrs M was asked was:
 Within the last 2 years, have you or anyone to be named on the policy: been prescribed 
medication, or received treatment or attended a medical practitioners surgery? 
IPA maintains that in addition to the high blood pressure, mini-stroke and high cholesterol 
Mrs M did declare, she should also have disclosed a vitamin B12 deficiency, insomnia and a 
panic attack. So Ive looked at Mrs Ms medical records and thought about what shes told us 
about her medical history to decide whether I think she took reasonable care to answer this 
question.
Mrs Ms records show that in August and October 2019, she received intramuscular 
injections for a vitamin B12 deficiency. The second of these was only administered about 
two weeks before she took out the policy. I think IPAs question was clear enough that she 
shouldve been prompted to tell it about the vitamin deficiency. And Mrs M accepts she 
shouldve declared this condition to IPA. So I think its fair for IPA to apply any relevant 
additional premium for this condition.
The records show that Mrs M visited the GP in late January and early June 2019, suffering 
from insomnia, which shed suffered from for a long time. In January, it looks like she asked 
about treatments, but wasnt prescribed anything. And in June, she was prescribed a short 
course of sleeping tablets.Its clear this does fall within the scope of IPAs question. Mrs M has told us that while she 
suffers insomnia intermittently, the GP told her thats caused by the menopause. So she 
never considered it to be a condition in its own right that IPA needed to know about. While 
Ive thought about this carefully, the GP referred to this condition as insomnia on the report. 
And it seems to have been a long-term problem. Mrs M was prescribed medication to treat 
her insomnia about five months before taking out the policy. Considering everything, I think 
IPAs question was clear enough that Mrs M shouldve been prompted to tell it about this 
condition.
Ive then thought about the panic attack Mrs M suffered in April 2018. I appreciate this was 
triggered by a very distressing situation in Mrs Ms family. But the notes show that Mrs M 
requested more of the medication she was prescribed during that visit. This suggests itd 
also been prescribed previously. So while I sympathise with Mrs Ms position, I do think she 
shouldve been aware that IPA wanted to know about this visit and the prescription and so 
shouldve disclosed it.
Overall, I think Mrs M did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think IPA 
is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. 
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldve still entered into 
the contract but wouldve charged a higher premium, then its entitled to proportionately 
reduce the amount to be paid on the claim. Mrs M paid £10.30 for her insurance policy. IPA 
sent us evidence which showed that if shed also declared vitamin B12 deficiency, insomnia 
and a panic attack, it wouldve charged a premium of £14.03. This means Mrs M paid 
73.41% of the premium she ought to have paid.  I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to 
limit its settlement to paying this proportion of her claim. So Im not telling IPA to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman