DRN-3296138
The complaint
Mr O complains about the lack of support received from Advantage Finance Ltd 
(Advantage) when he experienced financial difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
Mr O acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with Advantage in 2018. The 
agreement was for 60 months. 
In October 2020 Mr O contacted Advantage and explained he hadnt been working since 
March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The business granted him a 3 month payment 
deferral covering November 2020  January 2021 inclusive. 
In January 2021 Mr O contacted the business to request a further payment deferral of 2 
months. The business granted him a further month deferral but told him hed need to provide 
further evidence if he required another month deferral. This meant his February 2021 
payment was also deferred. 
In March 2021 Mr O requested a further extension to the payment deferral. Advantage say 
they asked Mr O to provide further evidence to assess whether they could do this, but Mr O 
says he wasnt given the opportunity to provide any further evidence and it wasnt requested 
from him. 
Later in March 2021 Mr O raised a complaint with the business. He was unhappy because 
they wouldnt extend his payment deferral and because hed been given incorrect 
information by one of their advisors. Advantage responded to the complaint and confirmed 
he was given some wrong information by an advisor. They said he had been granted 4 out of 
5 possible payment deferrals and said they could extend this by a further month provided 
they received evidence Mr O was still struggling due to the pandemic. 
Unhappy with this, Mr O referred his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated his complaint and upheld it. They didnt feel he had been prevented from 
providing further evidence, but said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance 
issued to businesses during 2020 confirmed that consumers could request payment 
deferrals for up to 6 months and businesses should grant these requests unless it was not in 
the customers interests to do so. 
The investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr O £150 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused and ensure Mr Os credit file did not have any adverse 
information registered about any missed payments for the period November 2020  April 
2021 inclusive. This is the period they could have granted him the 6 months payment 
deferrals for. 
Advantage accepted this recommendation, but Mr O did not. He said he didnt feel £150 
reflected the distress and impact on his mental health and said he wanted an Ombudsman 
to look at the case and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. In considering this complaint Ive had 
regard to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time.
 Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. The 
FCA issued guidance about customers who were faced with temporary payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19, that came into effect in April 2020. And this allowed financial 
businesses to grant a three-month payment deferral. 
The guidance said, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless 
the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to 
do so.
The FCA issued updated guidance in July 2020, which allowed a payment deferral to be 
extended to a period of up to six months. They also said if the customer is unable to resume 
payments at the end of the payment deferral period  the firm should work with the 
customer to resolve these difficulties. 
The above guidance was already in place when Mr O contacted Advantage originally in 
October 2020 and discussed a payment deferral. The guidance is also clear that there is no 
expectation under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to 
determine the circumstances surrounding the request for a payment deferral, or whether this 
is not in the customers interests.
The business accepted the view from our investigator which said they ought to have 
provided Mr O with up to 6 months payment deferrals, as per the FCA guidance. I agree that 
this is the case. The guidance said they were able to do this without the need to investigate 
Mr Os circumstances in depth, unless it was obviously not in Mr Os best interests to do so. 
And Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was the case. 
Mr O says he wasnt given the opportunity to provide further evidence to prove he needed 
the further deferral. Advantage should have provided the payment deferral he was 
requesting without needing to see any further evidence. I accept that the contact notes from 
Advantage show they did discuss providing evidence with him, and he declined to do so, but 
I dont think this has any relevance on his complaint. 
Mr O was granted payment deferrals for the months of November 2020, December 2020, 
January 2021, and February 2021. When he requested a further deferral for March 2021, 
Advantage could have agreed a deferral for a further 2 months (March 2021 and April 2021) 
without the need for further evidence. But they didnt do this. I am upholding Mr Os 
complaint on this basis. 
Mr O has told us that he suffered stress and doesnt feel the £150 compensation originally 
recommended recognises the impact the situation had on his mental health. I was sorry to 
hear he suffered through this period, and I know that it was a difficult time for many people 
as we went through a pandemic, and the pressures that put on peoples lives. However, I agree with the award of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused here. I 
think this reflects the additional trouble and upset caused by the actions of Advantage, 
alongside the wider problems the pandemic caused for people including Mr O. I also agree 
with the investigators recommendation that Advantage ensure Mr Os credit file reflects the 
payment deferral that should have been in place.  
Putting things right
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that Advantage havent treated Mr O fairly or 
reasonably. They should:
- Pay Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
- Remove any adverse entries from Mr Os credit file relating to any arrears registered 
or missed payments for the 6 month period November 2020 to April 2021 inclusive, 
when the payment deferral should have been in place.
I am not aware of the financial situation with the agreement since April 2021, but if Mr O is in 
arrears or suffered difficulties after this time, Advantage should treat him with forbearance in 
line with FCA guidance.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint and Advantage Finance Ltd need to 
follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman