DRN-2861175
The complaint
Mr D complained because National Westminster Bank Plc put security blocks on payments 
which he wanted to make to a cryptocurrency trading platform.
Mr D wanted to make regular payments, so he asked NatWest to put a note on his account 
to say that the payments were genuine. He also wanted compensation for the inconvenience 
of spending hours on the phone to NatWest.
What happened
On 3 September 2020, Mr D wanted to make a £2,500 payment from his NatWest account to 
a cryptocurrency trading platform. On 4 September, he wanted to make further payments of 
£1,000, £4,000, £2,500 and £1,000. On 7 September, he wanted to make a further payment 
of £1,000, and on 8 September another payment of £1,000.
On each occasion, NatWest put a security block on the payment. Mr D had to phone 
NatWest each time to confirm that the payment was genuine. Mr D said he had to spend at 
least an hour on the phone each time, including the time he was on hold waiting to be 
connected to an adviser, and then going through all the security checks.
On 8 September, Mr D complained. 
NatWests final response letter didnt uphold his complaint. NatWest said it was committed to 
doing all it could to protect customers from potential fraud and would restrict usage if it 
believed an account was at risk. It said it was aware this could cause inconvenience, but it 
didnt take these steps lightly. NatWest explained to Mr D that every time a payment is 
made, the transaction receives a risk score, made up of various factors. These factors were 
constantly updated to reflect latest fraud intelligence.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he was utterly disgusted that 
he was unable to use his own account. He could understand that there were occasionally 
security concerns, but every time hed tried to make the payments he had to spend an hour 
on the phone to explain himself. Mr D said he was sick to death of having the same 
unnecessary conversation which wasted time in his very busy schedule. He said that he 
wanted NatWest simply to put a note on his account that hed be making these payments 
regularly, and that they were genuine. And he wanted to be reimbursed for the 
inconvenience of having wasted four to five hours on the phone in total.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said he understood how frustrating this 
had been for Mr D, having to spend time on the phone to get his payments released. But he 
said that there were a lot of customers who were falling victim to scams, so NatWest did 
need to speak to them. He also said that NatWest had had cases where it had stopped 
payments, but the customers had confirmed they were genuine. The customers had later 
found out theyd been scammed, and had blamed the bank for not asking enough questions.
Mr D said he didnt accept this outcome, and it was total nonsense. He requested an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that it can be very frustrating not to be able to carry out a transaction 
quickly. And having to phone up every time, for a payment to the same beneficiary,  would 
seem particularly irritating, especially when Mr D said it took an hour every time. The Covid 
pandemic, during which Mr D was trying to make his transactions, has seen a rise in the 
number of online fraud attempts. So NatWest acknowledged it was blocking a high volume 
of payments, in order to protect customers. Its understandable that this meant it was harder 
to get through, but I do sympathise with Mr Ds frustration at the time it took.
But banks do have obligations to protect their customers accounts. This means that their 
terms and conditions include the power to refuse to process transactions. In Mr Ds case, 
section 2.2 of the terms and conditions to which he agreed when opening the account says:
Well always follow your instruction, unless:
-We reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent.
So NatWest had the authority to block Mr Ds payments. I recognise that Mr D has said he 
understands there are occasionally security concerns. And what hed like is for a note on his 
account to say that his payments to the cryptocurrency trading platform are genuine. 
But this wouldnt be practical. Banks responsibilities for protecting customer accounts 
means they arent allowed just to turn off the fraud monitoring system for any customer. And 
anti-fraud systems are sophisticated computerised systems,  which are updated and 
changed daily with the latest complex fraud intelligence. Theyre not a manual process. So I 
think its unlikely that a manual note on Mr Ds account would stop the computer alerts in any 
case.
In the light of banks responsibilities to protect customers from an ever-increasing number of 
attempted frauds, I consider that NatWest acted fairly and reasonably when blocking Mr Ds 
payments to a cryptocurrency trading platform. Its unfortunate that Mr D had to wait so long 
to get through, but I consider that was an unfortunate side-effect of monitoring a sudden 
increase in the  number of suspected scams and frauds against customers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman