The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI in 2001 at the same time as applying for the credit card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs application form. There is a separate section for PPI with Yes 
and No boxes that could be ticked to either accept or decline the PPI. Mr H has ticked the 
Yes box. He has also signed underneath to confirm his request. Mr H could have ticked the 
No box if he hadnt wanted the PPI. 
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs memory of events 
has faded. Overall, I consider that Mr H would have known from the wording and layout of 
the form that the PPI was optional. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he 
didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Mr H completed the form on his own at home before returned it by post. So there was no 
input from any BoS adviser. As it was a non-advised sale, BoS didnt have to ensure that the 
policy met Mr Hs needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr H to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr H would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
credit card payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr Hs employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. Mr H says he had some savings. But 
having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
DRN-1671598Mr H had pre-existing medical conditions. But Mr H has said that these never caused him 
any problems and he never needed to have any time off work as a result. So I dont think Mr 
H would have ever thought hed need to make a claim on the policy for those conditions.
Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr H had a need for the cover and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons explained above, Mr H 
wasnt really affected by any of those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the PPI 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change 
his mind. 
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But BoS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H  because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that.
Because BoS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman