DRN-1207052
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about credit card lending made to him by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr K said Lloyds had given him a platinum credit card in july2016, with a credit limit of 
£10,000. It increased the limit to £14,600 in July 2017 and to £15,000 in May 2018. Mr K 
said hed only been able to make the minimum payments. He was using a high level of his 
available credit. He also said he had a significant history of payday lending, his credit score 
was worsening, and he was only paying the minimum on other cards. He also said he had 
no borrowing when he took out the card, but his overall available credit and used credit had 
greatly increased by the time of the first increase, and increased again by the second.
Mr K also said his income wasnt £57,000 from his primary job. That was only about 
£41,000. He said he did have a second job, but that didnt pay at even intervals over the 
year, which was part of the problem. Mr K said if Lloyds had asked for payslips or bank 
statements it wouldve known this. 
Mr K said he now had debts of over £70,000, could only meet minimum payments, and 
wasnt left with enough money to cover his living expenses. He wanted Lloyds to refund to 
him all the interest he paid on the account after it was opened in July 2016, with interest on 
top. And he wanted all future interest payments frozen. 
Lloyds reviewed the lending it had made to Mr K and said it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. It had based his initial application on his declared income. And it had checked his 
credit file. Then it had twice extended his credit limit, as hed said. Each time hed done 
balance transfers and benefitted from 0% interest on the transferred balance for some time. 
Lloyds did think it had made a mistake because it hadnt dealt with his complaint promptly, 
and there had been some confusion about registering the complaint. It paid Mr K £200 to say 
sorry for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Lloyds had 
processed the initial lending application on the basis of the information that Mr K had sent. 
And it then processed his two applications for credit limit increases. Our investigator didnt 
think that there was anything on Mr Ks account that shouldve warned Lloyds not to lend him 
more money. 
Mr K wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered what Mr K told us about his base salary, and about having income from a 
second job. And I think its reasonable for Lloyds to have accepted what Mr K said about his 
total income. What Mr K himself says about not using his available credit at that time also 
makes me think Lloyds didnt make a mistake when it initially agreed to open a credit card 
account for him, and lend him £10,000. I dont think that Lloyds shouldve asked Mr K for 
payslips, or other proof of income, at this point. 
Mr K then applied for, and was granted, two increases to his credit limit in July 2017 and 
May 2018. Mr K told us that at the time he took out the card, he wasnt using any of the 
available borrowing on his credit cards. He said by the time of the first limit increase, his 
credit card debts were up to £31,435 and he was using 74% of his available credit. By the 
time of the second limit increase, his total credit card debts were £59,372 and he was using 
93% of his available credit. So he didnt think Lloyds shouldve lent him more.
Lloyds said that it had checked Mr Ks credit commitments against the income and outgoings 
hed declared, and it thought the borrowing he requested was affordable for him. Lloyds did 
do credit checks at the time. The figures Lloyds got at the time for overall lending arent quite 
the same as those Mr K has sent us. But I can see both from the credit checks that Lloyds 
made at the time and from the credit file that Mr K has sent us, that Mr Ks use of credit was 
increasing during this time. 
I can also see from Mr Ks credit file that theres no evidence of missed payments. It looks 
like he has a lot of lending, but he is managing that lending.
I know Mr K was borrowing a lot of money. But the question is whether his overall credit 
record shouldve made Lloyds think that increasing its lending would be irresponsible. 
Having considered this case carefully, I dont think that at the time that Lloyds made its 
decisions to lend Mr K £10,000, and then twice to increase his credit limit, Lloyds shouldve 
realised that it would be irresponsible to lend this money to him. I appreciate that Mr Ks use 
of credit had significantly increased during this time, but I dont think that alone shouldve 
stopped Lloyds from making this lending.  
I know that Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman