DRN-2880483
The complaint
Mrs B says the car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited, isnt of satisfactory quality.
This complaint has been brought by Miss B, Mrs Bs daughter, as she is the main user of 
the car. I will, however, refer to Mrs B for ease of reference as the credit agreement is in 
her name, even though the evidence has been supplied by Miss B.
 
What happened
In February 2018 Mrs B entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse for a used car. The car was around one year old and had a mileage of 18,000. At 
the same time as taking out this finance agreement Mrs B also part exchanged another 
car. There was a negative equity element for that car of £1,500 and this amount was 
added to the hire purchase agreement.
Mrs B says that, around four weeks after taking the car, she began to experience issues 
with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) warning light, and the engine management light 
(EML) illuminating on the dashboard. She says she took the car back to the supplying 
dealership on several occasions.
The supplying dealership says it saw the car, in April 2018, for an issue with the washer 
and passenger heater and, in June 2018, for the DPF light when a DPF regeneration was 
undertaken.
In October 2018, Mrs B complained to Black Horse about the quality of the car. She said 
warning lights were illuminating and there was a potential issue with the cars DPF. She 
also said she was unhappy as she hadnt been advised the car was actually an ex-rental 
when she had agreed to purchase it.
Black Horse arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. The 
engineer took the car for a 54-mile test drive and reported that it had no issues with either 
the DPF or EML, and there were no stored fault codes. However, they also said that, 
during the road test, on three occasions they had experienced the car having a 
momentary loss of power on take up of drive from standing positions. They said this 
should be further investigated.
Mrs B raised a second complaint about the findings of the independent engineer 
regarding the loss of power.
Black Horse didnt uphold Mrs Bs first complaint. It said the regeneration of the DPF, 
undertaken in June 2018, didnt indicate a fault with the car as these filters can 
become blocked due to driving style, but that it would investigate the loss of power 
findings. Black Horse didnt accept the car had been misrepresented to Mrs B in 
respect of being an ex- rental car.
Black Horse contacted the supplying dealer who said that Mrs B hadnt raised the issue of 
the car suffering from a loss of power, but it would be happy to investigate this as the car 
was still under warranty. Black Horse says it then tried to make contact with Mrs B, about 
the car being inspected, but she didnt respond to its efforts. Black Horse issued a second 
final response letter in January 2019, notifying her that it had closed her complaint. 
However, it recommended Mrs B take the car in for an inspection.
Mrs B contacted Black Horse after receiving this letter and agreed to the car being 
investigated by the supplying dealership. The car was taken to the garage in March 2019. 
The dealership reported that it found the cars battery low in charge and that, after having 
re- charged it, the car then drove as expected and no fault could be found. The dealership 
said that, as Mrs B had only driven the car for 600 miles between January 2019 and 
March 2019, the battery had discharged.
Black Horse sent Mrs B a third final response letter in April 2019 and, again, didnt 
uphold her complaint. It said the battery was a perishable item and it will inevitably fail 
through normal use and also, as in this case, through lack of use. It did offer for 
another manufacturer approved garage to look at the car for a second opinion.
Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint 
should be upheld. She said she didnt think Mrs B was entitled to reject the car as the DPF 
had undergone a regeneration in June 2018, and no further faults had been reported or 
found with the car. The loss of power had only been reported once and the cause of that 
had not been identified.
Mrs B disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the car had continued to 
demonstrate faults, with multiple warning lights illuminating and the car suffering from loss 
of power. Around the end of October 2020, the car had broken-down and could not be 
used.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
I decided to proceed with the evidence that had been provided by both parties so far, 
even though Black Horse had offered to have the car inspected again by an independent 
engineer. However, I was aware that it hadnt been driven for some months and the 
battery was now flat. Black Horse hadnt responded to my enquiries, as to whether that 
would render any inspection of little value to the investigation. But, in light of the time that 
had passed I thought it was fair and reasonable for me to now proceed with my decision 
as I thought it was unlikely any further delay would provide anything useful to the 
investigation.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs B is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black 
Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods 
are supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car was nearly new, being around one-year old, and with a mileage of 
18,000. And I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person 
wouldnt have expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair for a 
reasonable period of time, as components of the car wouldnt have been subjected 
to much wear and tear through use. I thought there would be an expectation the car 
would be free from minor defects.
Mrs B said she had experienced issues with the car after having it in her possession for 
about one month. The supplying dealership said that it only saw the car twice, firstly for 
repairs to the cars windscreen washer and a heater vent, and then in June 2018 for the 
issue with the DPF. However, Mrs B had supplied two emails from ex-employees of the 
dealership who said that the car was brought in by her daughter around six times by 
September 2018. One of these emails says that the complaints were about the car losing 
power and the issues were always with the DPF and EML.
While I appreciated these employees might not be entirely objective towards the 
dealership in what they said taking this evidence together with that of Mrs Bs, I thought I 
was able to give it some weight as to what had happened.
Where evidence is contradictory or missing then I have to decide what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened. Looking at what Mrs B had said about the continuous 
problems with the car, I thought it was more likely than not that she had taken he car back 
to the dealership more than the two job cards provided showed. I thought this explained 
why she hadnt made her complaint to Black Horse until October 2018, as she had been 
trying to resolve the matter with the supplying dealership but had become frustrated with 
its lack of assistance as to what was wrong with the car.
So, I thought the issues with the car had been experienced by Mrs B within a few weeks 
of her acquiring it, and I didnt think the regeneration of the DPF had repaired the cars 
faults. I thought it was likely they were ongoing.
Id seen that the car was independently inspected in November 2018, and no issue with 
the cars DPF had been found by the engineer. By this time the car had been driven 6,500 
miles by Mrs B and, although this is less than average miles, Mrs Bs driving style hadnt 
therefore resulted in the DPF having any problems. The engineer had also noted the loss 
of power and recommended further investigation.
The supplying dealership said this was the first time that loss of power had been raised 
but, as set out above, one of the ex-employees said it had been raised before by Mrs B. 
And, as I was satisfied Mrs B had visited the dealership more often than the dealership 
said, then I thought it was likely the loss of power had been raised as part of the faults that 
Mrs B was experiencing from the start.
When the loss of power had been investigated, the supplying dealership said this was 
linked to the cars battery being low in charge which it said was due to a lack of use of the 
car. But I didnt think the evidence supported this. The supplying dealership said that Mrs 
B had only driven the car for 600 miles between January and March 2019, but I hadnt seen any evidence that the dealership saw the car in January 2019, as there wasnt a job 
card for that, so I was unclear how it was aware the car had travelled such a limited 
distance in that space of time. Also, the supplying dealer didnt appear to have 
considered the overall use of the car from the point of supply until its inspection in March 
2019, so I was unclear if it was saying that all the faults, experienced by Mrs B with the 
car, were linked to the battery and were therefore due to lack of use as the battery wasnt 
being sufficiently charged.
On looking at the mileage of the car, Id seen it was 18,000 at the point of sale and that 
Mrs B had driven around 8,500 by the time the supplying dealership investigated the car 
in March 2019. And I didnt think the use was so low that I would expect it to have an 
impact on the cars battery unless there was an existing issue with that part. However, I 
hadnt seen any evidence that a rundown battery was causing the intermittent issues with 
the warning lights illuminating and the car apparently going into limp mode
If the battery was considered to be the cause of the issues and, even though this was a 
serviceable item then, on considering the age and mileage of the car, I didnt think a 
reasonable person would have expected issues with the battery to arise from general 
wear and tear so soon. I thought if there was an issue with the cars battery, then the car 
couldnt reasonably be said to be durable.
Mrs B had supplied additional evidence of the ongoing issues with the car in the form of 
photos and short videos. The car had displayed a number of warning lights for various 
issues with it including the EML, sensors showing that there were obstacles in front of it 
when there werent and warnings that seat belts had been taken off when they hadnt. 
Mrs B said, although this evidence was from after August 2018, the car had been 
consistently suffering from the same faults since around March 2018. As I thought Mrs B 
had been credible in what she said I accepted this was likely to be the case.
The independent engineer said that they were unable to find any stored fault codes. Mrs B 
said she had been told that there was a problem with the car storing fault codes, though 
she hadnt provided any corroborating evidence of that view from a garage. However, on 
the evidence that had been produced, I thought that there had been an ongoing issue with 
the car that was intermittent, but which had deteriorated over time meaning the car was no 
longer usable.
I also thought that it was more likely than not that the issues with the car were all linked, 
and that the cause of the problem had not yet been discovered. It might or might not have 
been due to the cars battery. However, I thought I could fairly say that Black Horse had 
had an opportunity to repair the car, it had arranged for an independent engineer to 
examine the car as well as the supplying dealership. I was not going to ask it to arrange 
any further inspections as I didnt think, after the length of time the car had been off the 
road, this would assist, and nor did I think it would be fair for Mrs B to have to wait any 
longer for a decision.
So, I was satisfied, on what Id seen, that the car was unsatisfactory at the point of sale. I 
thought it was more likely than not that it had either had or was developing a fault at the 
point of sale. I also thought it would be fair for Mrs B to now be entitled to reject the car 
and for the agreement to end.
Id seen that under this credit agreement there was an element of negative equity that Mrs 
B would have been clearing at the same time as paying for the car, as this amount was 
incorporated into the total amount borrowed. I thought it was fair to assume that a 
proportion of each of the payments would have gone to paying off the negative equity 
each month. As the negative equity was £1,500 then dividing that by 48 (for the length of the agreement) meant Mrs B was paying £31.25 each month towards clearing that 
amount. This meant there was around £250 left outstanding, depending on the number of 
payments made. In the circumstances I thought it would be fair for Black Horse to write 
this amount off due to the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B dealing with the 
faulty car.
I appreciated Mrs B might feel that £250 compensation wasnt sufficient, but I was aware 
that she hadnt been using the car and that it was her daughter that had had to deal with 
the issues. But Black Horse didnt have an agreement with Miss B and so wasnt liable for 
any inconvenience or distress caused to her over the car and I couldnt take her trouble 
and upset into account when looking at appropriate compensation.
Id seen that payments had been made for the car each month and that it hadnt been 
used since October 2020. I thought any payments made from November 2020, less 
£31.25 for each month which had been paying off the negative equity should therefore be 
reimbursed to Mrs B with interest.
However, Id also seen that the car had been used by Mrs B and, from the photos 
supplied, the mileage in October 2020 was around 37,300. This meant the car has been 
driven 19,300 miles in the time the car had been in Mrs B possession. Under the 
Consumer Rights Act there is provision to make a deduction for use and I thought it was 
fair that this use was paid for by Mrs B. As the use was relatively low, and I thought it was 
reasonable to assume that there would have been a reluctance to drive the car with the 
repeated issues, I thought it would be fair for Black Horse to reimburse a further three 
months worth of payments (again less the £93.75 paid towards the negative equity) to 
reflect that Mrs B hadnt been able to use the car as much as she would have wanted.
For the reasons given above I intended to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I asked 
Black Horse to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Write off the negative equity owing in lieu of compensation to Mrs B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Reimburse all payments made under the agreement from November 2020 
when the car could no longer be driven, less £31.25 for each month being the 
amount paying off the negative equity included in the agreement. Interest is to 
be added to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement. 
Reimburse three months payments, less £93.75 to Mrs B to reflect the 
restricted use she had of the car.
Remove any adverse information added to Mrs Bs credit file in respect 
of this agreement
  Black Horse has accepted my provisional decision. Mrs B has asked that I reconsider the 
amount to be reimbursed by Black Horse. She says it would be fair for her to be reimbursed 
all of her monthly payments from September 2018 due to the deteriorating condition of the 
car plus the cost of hiring a car since November 2020. Mrs B also says that a new battery 
has recently been fitted to the car though it did not correct the problems. She asks that she is reimbursed the cost of that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse says it accepts the findings set out in my provisional decision and so I dont 
need to look again at whether the car was or wasnt of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. However, I have been asked to look again at the reimbursement I think is fair for Mrs 
B to receive from Black Horse.
As set out above when looking at the settlement I do have to take into account that this 
credit agreement is between Mrs B and Black Horse and not her daughter, Miss B who uses 
the car. Any distress and inconvenience caused to Miss B through her use of the car isnt the 
responsibility of Black Horse as it has no relationship with her.
Mrs B says a reimbursement from September 2018 of her monthly payments under the 
agreement would be fair as it was from this point the cars performance deteriorated. But 
although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to her, I dont agree with that. This is 
because Mrs B has been able to make use of the car as the mileage is now around 37,500 
and I still think that, in accordance with the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act, Mrs B 
pays for that use. So, I think its fair and reasonable that she is reimbursed her monthly 
payments from November 2020 when the car was no longer useable plus an additional three 
months of monthly payments to reflect the limited use she had of the car prior to that.
Mrs B has also raised reimbursement of the rental costs for hiring another car from 
November 2020. As she is being reimbursed her monthly payments under the agreement 
from that date, I dont think this additional payment would be fair. I am also unclear whether 
Mrs B hired this car or whether the hire car was for the sole use of Miss B, but in any event, I 
think this reimbursement wouldnt be reasonable. This is because Mrs B would always have 
expected to pay travel costs and if the rental fees are reimbursed, she will have had in effect 
free travel for that period which actually would put her in a better position than had the car 
not been faulty. Travel costs are an everyday expense. So, Im not asking Black Horse to 
repay the costs of the car hire since it will be returning the monthly instalments under the 
agreement from that date.
Ive seen that a new battery has been fitted to the car, but Mrs B says it hasnt resolved the 
problems though I understand fault codes are now showing when the car was last checked. I 
think that before Mrs B took this step it would have been fair for her to have raised that she 
was going to do so in order that Black Horse could be notified about this repair before it was 
undertaken. I think its reasonable for me to say that Mrs B chose to have this part fitted and 
I dont think it would be fair for me to now ask Black Horse to reimburse the cost of a part 
that it wasnt given an opportunity to provide a view on. So, Im not asking Black Horse to 
repay that cost.
At the time of my provisional decision there was £250 owing as a negative equity, I think its 
likely this amount may have decreased due to further payments having been made by Mrs 
B. So, I think it would be fair to ask Horse to fully reimburse any payments made by Mrs B 
from May 2021 as the writing off of the negative equity was in lieu of compensation. 
So, for the reasons given Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint, but I am not altering the 
settlement I set out in my provisional decision. I still think that outcome is fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances.Putting things right
Im asking Black Horse to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Write off the negative equity owing in lieu of compensation to Mrs B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Reimburse all payments made under the agreement from November 2020 
when the car could no longer be driven, less £31.25 for each month being the 
amount paying off the negative equity included in the agreement. However, any 
payments made from May 2021 are to be repaid in full. Interest is to be added 
to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement. 
Reimburse three months payments, less £93.75 to Mrs B to reflect the 
restricted use she had of the car.
Remove any adverse information added to Mrs Bs credit file in respect 
of this agreement.
My final decision
 As set out above Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. but I am not altering the settlement set 
out in my provisional decision. I am asking Black Horse Limited to do the following:
 Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Write off the negative equity owing in lieu of compensation to Mrs B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Reimburse all payments made under the agreement from November 2020 
when the car could no longer be driven, less £31.25 for each month being the 
amount paying off the negative equity included in the agreement. However, any 
payments made from May 2021 are to be repaid in full. Interest is to be added 
to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement. 
Reimburse three months payments, less £93.75 to Mrs B to reflect the 
restricted use she had of the car.
Remove any adverse information added to Mrs Bs credit file in respect 
of this agreement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman