DRN-3713061
The complaint
Mr F complains about the settlement payment Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) offered following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Fs car was stolen. He made a claim to Advantage under his motor insurance policy and 
it paid what it estimated to be the market value of his car. Mr F thought his insurance would 
provide for a like for like value in these circumstances. But he hasnt found a similar car for 
the payment Advantage provided, which he thinks was too low. 
Advantage says its policy terms provide the market value of a car if its stolen. It says it used 
the industry trade guides to establish the value of Mr Fs car based on its age, make, model, 
and specification. It says the two valuation figures it obtained were £8,070 and £8,068. It 
offered the average of the two, which came to £8,069. 
Mr F didnt think this was fair and asked our service to look into his complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He checked two further industry trade guides, which 
gave slightly higher valuations, but he thought the payment offered by Advantage was 
reasonable based on the range of figures obtained. 
Mr F disagreed. He says every car hes found online was closer to £9,000. Because of this 
he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Let me explain.
I understand Mr F wants the best offer he can get following the theft of his car. He says 
he cant find a like for like replacement for Advantages offer. But having read his policy 
terms it doesnt provide for a like for like replacement. It provides the market value in the 
case of a total loss. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
Our investigator has explained our services approach to car valuations. We dont provide
valuations for cars but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the 
motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr F says he cant find similar cars advertised at the price Advantage offered him. Based on 
the advertisements he has seen a similar car is priced closer to £9,000. But we dont find
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of
likely retail selling prices.
Our investigator thought Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see he looked at the trade guide valuations 
Advantage provided and that the correct make, model, age, mileage, and date of loss had 
been used. 
He also obtained valuations from two other trade guides, using the same information for Mr 
Fs car. These gave valuations of £8,354 and £8,330. So, the range of values was between 
£8,068 and £8,354. Advantage offered £8,069 for Mr Fs car. I acknowledge his comments 
that this is lower than the two valuations we obtained. But as above, our role is to consider 
whether the offer provided by Advantage was reasonable. 
The mid-way point for the range of values obtained from the motor trade guides is £8,211. 
Advantages offer is slightly less than this figure at £8,069. But I dont think this shows that 
its offer was unreasonable based on this range of values. So, I cant say that Advantage has 
acted unfairly when relying on its policy terms and making the offer it did. And I cant 
reasonably require it to increase its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman