DRN-2716227
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claims, that he said hed done most of the work on. He didnt think their service justified 
the fee they charged. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr S said hed asked Allay to pursue any PPI claims he had. But he didnt 
receive any updates about his claims. And he said hed dealt with his lender directly for any 
information they needed. Mr S said hed had to chase Allay for information, but they didnt 
respond until after his claim was successful. Mr S said he was harassed and pressured by 
Allay to pay their invoice. But all theyd done was send his signed form to his lenders. He 
didnt think their fee of 24% including VAT was justified. And hed made an offer of 15% to 
Allay which he said was more reflective of the work theyd done. He complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr S signed a letter of authority (LoA) in July 2019. In September 2019, after Mr S 
lenders told them theyd found he had PPI they sent Mr S a PPI questionnaire. And he 
returned the completed form to them. They understand one of Mr S lenders sent the form 
direct to him as well, but he should have told them hed already completed the form. As Mr S 
had authorised them to act on his behalf and hadnt cancelled his agreement within the 14-
day cooling off period, theyd submitted his claim. Mr S had two successful claims as a 
result, so they said their fee was justified.
Mr S wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim and 
what fees they would charge. She said they told Mr S when it was found he had PPI, and 
hed completed their questionnaire instructing them to act on his behalf.
Mr S didnt agree, he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr S signed Allays LoA in July 2019 which authorised them to act on 
his behalf to pursue any PPI claims for him. I can understand Mr S frustration as hes been 
asked to pay success fees for claims, whose success he says was because of the 
information hed given his lenders. And Allay had contributed very little to the successful 
outcome. So, he feels the fee theyre asking for is unjustified.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. So, I need to determine whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Mr S. And whether they have acted in line with the terms and conditions Mr S 
signed up to. 
The agreement Mr S had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Allay has shown an online application for their PPI service was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr S has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr S lenders, and these details were 
provided. Mr S isnt disputing that he completed the on-line application.
On completion of the application, an LoA would be generated, populated with this 
information. Allays terms and conditions would also be available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mr S had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In September 2019 after Allay had sent Mr S details to his lenders, I can see one of Mr S 
lenders Ill call B responded to Allay to say theyd found PPI.  And I can also see an email 
was sent to Mr S (the same e mail address provided to us) that says Great News. And 
explains that PPI had been found. This doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be 
successful, as the claim needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold. This is why Allay sent 
Mr S a link to the PPI questionnaire for him to provide information to further support his 
claim. And I can see from Allays records that the completed PPI questionnaire was returned 
to them and forwarded to B. And Allay sent Mr S a text message, a few days later, to 
number ending *7630 (the same number Mr S has given to us) to let him know the details 
had been passed to B.
I can see that B wrote to Mr S, copying the letter to Allay in January 2020. Bupdated Mr S 
about what was happening and asked him to complete the PPI questionnaire, the same 
document hed completed and returned in September 2019. I cant see that Mr S asked 
about the duplication of forms, as hed already been told by Allay that the form had been 
sent to B
In July 2020, B sent the offer of compensation to both Mr S and Allay. I think this shows B 
accepted Allay had authority to represent Mr S in making his PPI claim, and they werent 
solely dealing with Mr S. 
In February 2020 another of Mr S lenders Ill call S told both Mr S and Allay that his claim 
for mis-sold PPI was also being upheld. Again, this shows that lender S saw Allay as being 
Mr S authorised representative.
I will now look to see whether Mr S asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing. Mr S was told in September 2019 that PPI had been found, and it would have been 
from this date 9 September 2019 that the 14-day cooling off period would have started. This 
meant Mr S had up to 22 September 2019 to cancel his agreement. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr S asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14-day cooling off period. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his 
behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd continued with his PPI claims to 
his lenders.
Allays fees as outlined above arent based on the work they did but on whether the claims 
they submitted were successful or not. Allay submitted Mr S claims and their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. Mr S had two successful claims.
Allays fees with examples were outlined in their terms and conditions:
We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered 
relating to all accounts with your lenders.
Im satisfied Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr S agreed to and reflect the fee 
cap thats in place for PPI claims. Mr S could have cancelled his claims with Allay. But I cant 
see he cancelled the claims before they were successful. 
I can see it has been distressing for Mr S as following the success of his claims Allay were 
persistent in asking for their fees to be paid. But as Ive outlined above, I think their fees 
were justified.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr S to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay can charge 
their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman