DRN-4470096
The complaint
Mrs W complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted her accounts in 
June 2022 without explanation  and then closed them. She says this has caused her 
substantive distress and inconvenience, financial loss and impact to her credit file.
What happened
This complaint only deals with Mrs Ws sole named accounts. Mrs Ws complaint about a 
joint account she had with someone else is being handled under separate complaint 
reference number at this service.
Mrs Ws joint account was blocked in April 2022 and unrestricted in May 2022. Because of 
the uncertainty and worry it caused her, Mrs W moved her benefit payments to her sole 
account. They included job seeker allowance, disability payments and child benefit. Mrs W 
had savings accounts too.
The restrictions on Mrs Ws accounts were lifted on 31 August 2022. Mrs W complained 
about this. In its response, NatWest said it had taken this action in line with its regulatory 
obligations and terms of account. And as it had followed the right process, NatWest doesnt 
need to do anything about Mrs Ws credit rating being affected through missing standing 
orders and direct debits.
On 1 September 2022, NatWest told Mrs W that all her accounts would be closed on 
31 October 2022. NatWest gave her two months notice.
Mrs W say NatWests actions have caused significant impact to her. Some of the key points 
she makes relevant to this complaint are:
- She has a young child, and was unable to provide food for her due to not having any 
access to their funds
- The block and the impact of falling into poor credit caused significant worry and upset 
as she thought she would lose out on being able to get a mortgage and new home
- Her credit score with credit reference agencies has been adversely affected to the 
point its nearly halved
- She fell behind with her share of the rent in June and July 2022 before purchasing a 
new home
NatWest then told our Investigator that it should have removed this restriction on the day it 
was applied - 30 June 2022 - but it wasnt. NatWest accept it had made an error. Because of 
this it offered Mrs W compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs W didnt 
accept this as a resolution to her complaint.
NatWest also said it would refund all the fees and charged it applied from 30 June 2022 
onwards. For Mrs Ws accounts, these total £8.60. Our Investigator then sent their outcome. 
In relation to this complaint, and in summary, they found:
- The block was not done correctly. So compensation for distress and inconvenience 
will be considered for the period of the restriction
- Mrs W should have mitigated against not having access to her joint account, so 
though the block affected her ability to make payments in July 2022, she should have 
made the payments in August 2022 from other sources given her partner had access 
to his sole account
- NatWest should pay Mrs W compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her
As Mrs W didnt agree her complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent bothy parties 
my provisional decision. For ease of reference, here is what I said: 
Provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
When carrying out such a review banks are under no obligation, that Im aware of, to explain 
why it has taken the action is has. This includes when restricting an account. But if a 
complaint about it is referred to this service, then NatWest should show us what those 
reasons are and the evidence it has. That way we can determine if NatWest has acted in line 
with its obligations and done so fairly and reasonably.
NatWest hasnt given me any information which shows why it reviewed Mrs Ws account and 
decided to block them  along with her joint account. I would look to uphold this complaint 
point due to not having enough information. But NatWest have accepted it should not have 
applied the block  or more accurately, removed it the same day it was applied. So NatWest 
accept it has done something wrong here.
Mrs W only complained about her accounts being closed more recently. Broadly speaking, 
NatWest is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before NatWest closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which NatWest and Mrs W had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving her at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
NatWest gave Mrs W two months notice to close her accounts. But as before, it hasnt 
explained to this service why it did so  and provided supporting evidence. So I cant say it 
acted fairly.
Ive been given copies of Mrs Ws current account statements. I note that for a time 
proximate to the block she was getting her benefit payments made into it. And I note the 
account seems to have been used mainly for expenses and some regular payments to 
creditors.Mrs W says she moved her benefits to this account due to issues on her joint account being 
blocked by NatWest and the worry of this happening again caused her. But then NatWest 
blocked her sole accounts, and the benefits were being sent back to the DWP.
As NatWest accept it made an error here by blocking Mrs Ws accounts, I think this impacted 
more adversely on her given her previous experience. I also accept that not having access 
initially to her benefits until she was able to open a new account and have them paid into 
there must have been distressing and very inconvenient. More so because Mrs W had a 
young child.
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair redress for the distress 
and inconvenience NatWests actions caused her.
As Mrs W had no access to her accounts from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022, and 
NatWest made an error in blocking it, Im satisfied that any charges applied by it during this 
period should be refunded. NatWest say this was £8.60.
I also think Mrs W has been deprived of her funds, so NatWest should pay 8% simple 
interest on the balance for the period of the block.
If Mrs W can show NatWest clear evidence of being charged any late fees by creditors who 
she had regular payments set-up from her sole named accounts, NatWest should refund any 
such charges. I havent seen any such evidence from the regular payees she has set-up on 
her current account.
Its possible Mrs W missed payments to her creditors during this time for regular payments 
she had set-up. This may have affected her credit file. So, to put things right, I think NatWest 
should give her a letter explaining that it has unfairly caused payments to be missed from 
this account from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022
I then asked both parties to send me any further comments and evidence for me to consider 
before I reach my decision. That deadline has passed, NatWest have responded but Mrs W 
hasnt. 
Ill now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to my provisional decision, NatWest said it agreed with what I said. Mrs W 
hasnt responded. 
So, because of that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in line with the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision - as above. 
If Mrs W accepts my decision, NatWest have asked that she provides evidence of any 
external fees and confirmation of where she would like the redress paid. She can send her 
bank details or alternatively opt for a cheque payment.  
Putting things right
To put things right, NatWest must: - Pay Mrs W 8% simple interest on the current account balance while the account was 
blocked from 30 June 2022 until it was unrestricted on 31 August 2022*
- Refund any fees or charges NatWest applied during the period of the restriction, 
which I understand is £8.60
- Refund any other such charges Mrs W can evidence she was charged by third 
parties during the period of the block where the regular missed payment was set-up 
from her sole account(s)
- Pay Mrs W £200 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and embarrassment it 
has caused her
- Provide Mrs W with a letter saying its error caused her to miss creditor payments 
from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022 which may have affected her credit file 
adversely
*If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc 
must put things right as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman