DRN-2501579
The complaint
Mr L complains that he wasnt able to access his online account with Metro Bank PLC. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr L set up a new account with Metro Bank. He was told that he would 
need to set up an online account. To do this he needed a customer number and a magic 
word which would be sent to him by post. 
Once he received the magic word, he tried to open his online account but found he was 
unable to. He kept getting messages saying the magic word he had entered wasnt correct. 
He called Metro Bank to try and resolve the issue. The member of staff tried to assist Mr L 
but the magic word still didnt work. Instead they arranged for a new magic word to be sent 
to him. They said it would arrive in two to three working days. 
Four days later Mr L called Metro Bank again. He said he still hadnt received his magic word 
by post. The staff member assured him it had been sent and Mr L agreed to continue to wait 
for it. 
Mr L made a complaint to Metro Bank as he said he had entered the magic word correctly 
the first time he tried. He also said it wasnt fair that the word had to be sent by post, as he 
said his post was being delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
Metro Bank didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it requires multiple methods of verification 
for its online banking service. And it was satisfied it followed its usual process for new 
customers. Further it said that it could see Mr L was able to make a payment using the 
online service a few days after he made the complaint, so was satisfied the new magic word 
had been received and correctly entered.
Mr L didnt think this was fair so asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that it wasnt possible to know if Mr L has entered his first magic word incorrectly, but was 
satisfied that Metro Bank had apologised for any inconvenience caused which she thought 
was enough. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint like this, I need to decide whether the bank has done 
something wrong. And where it has, I need to consider how this has impacted its customer in 
order to determine what it should do to put things right. 
In this case Mr L says the reason he couldnt access his account online, was because of a 
bank error. Metro Bank has said he couldnt access the account because he was entering 
the magic word incorrectly. 
It hasnt been possible to determine whether the magic word Mr L entered was correct or 
not, as the details he entered online werent saved and the bank cant provide the magic 
word. So Ive not been able to determine whether there was a bank error or whether it was 
Mr Ls own error. 
However, even if I accept there was a bank error, I dont think Metro Bank need to take any 
further action. Ill explain why.
Mr L first tried to register his account online on 17 November. When he wasnt able to, he 
called the bank for assistance. They tried to help him and agreed to send out another magic 
word by post. 
Mr L said he hadnt received his by 21 November and he called again. However I can see 
that on 23 November he was able to access his online account with the new magic word. So 
Im satisfied this was received by then. 
As Mr L wasnt able to access his online account on his first attempt. I agree this would have 
been inconvenient. However Metro Bank took quick action when he told it he couldnt access 
his account. And the matter was resolved within a week of him experiencing the problem. So 
I dont think this caused Mr L a significant amount of inconvenience, enough to ask Metro 
Bank to pay any compensation.
I understand Mr L is also unhappy that Metro Bank sent the magic word by post when he 
had explained he was experiencing delays with this. He asked the bank to send it a different 
way  for example by email or text message. 
Metro Bank has explained that it needs to verify its new customers identities in a number of 
different ways before they can access their accounts online. And it is its process that one of 
these ways is to verify their address or by the customer visiting a branch in person. Mr L 
didnt feel comfortable visiting a branch, so it sent the magic word by post. 
Metro Bank has provided evidence to show that this is the process it uses for all its new 
customers. So I can see it hasnt treated Mr L any differently to how it would treat other 
customers. I therefore dont agree it has treated Mr L unfairly by sending the magic word by 
post.
For these reasons, Im satisfied it treated Mr L fairly and responded to his request for help 
quickly. So I wont require Metro Bank to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman