DRN-3329038
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax was unfair in its 
handling of Mr Cs financial hardship and unreasonable in its dealings with his estate after 
his death.
What happened
This complaint has been brought by Mr Cs son (also Mr C) as executor of the late Mr Cs 
will, on behalf of the estate. When Im referring to the late Mr C, Ill call him Mr C and when 
Im referring to Mr Cs son or the estate, Ill say the estate.
Mr C had an interest only mortgage with Halifax on his home. The estate says Mr C had 
been the victim of fraud and brought that to the attention of Halifax in 2019. At that time Mr C 
was not working as he was recovering from cancer. The estate says he had approximately 
£115,000 outstanding on his mortgage and the value of the house was approximately 
£395,000 with only 18 months remaining on the term of the mortgage. He contacted Halifax 
to adjust his mortgage payments due to his financial situation.
The estate says Halifax offered Mr C a two-month arrangement and sent him a pack 
containing an income and expenditure form which he couldnt complete because he didnt 
have access to his financial paperwork. The estate found that he had to cash in a pension to 
make his mortgage payments and from 2009 hed been paying 4.25% when rates had been 
lower than 2% at that time. So, it says Halifax should have reduced Mr Cs interest rate in 
May 2019 and extended his term. The estate says Mr C had no means to repay his 
mortgage due to the fraud hed suffered and was forced to consider selling his home.
Sadly, in February 2020, Mr C took his own life. The estate says this was due to him being 
unable to cope with the stress of his personal and financial situation.
The estate notified Halifax of Mr Cs death and was contacted by its bereavement team in 
March 2020. The second part of the complaint brought by the estate is about Halifaxs 
dealings with it after that point. In short, it says Halifax took too long to address the estates 
complaints, lied about its progress in doing so, addressed letters to Mr C and made other 
administrative errors leading to substantial distress and inconvenience.
Included in the second part of the complaint, the estate says Halifax caused it to incur 
significant losses due to the pressure it felt under to sell the mortgaged property. It says it 
sold at £347,000 despite understanding the property to be worth approximately £395,000.
In response to the estates complaints, Halifax wrote three final response letters:
Its letter of 17 July 2020 addressed issues relating to the lack of support offered to  
Mr C and the timing of a call Halifax made to the estate after its solicitor had enquired 
about redemption of the mortgage. 
Halifax said its records showed various phone conversations with Mr C from         
May 2019. In particular, hed informed Halifax of his financial and health issues but 
was not concerned about the increasing arrears as he planned to sell the property to 
repay the mortgage. Halifax agreed a nil payment arrangement for two months. In 
subsequent calls Mr C made payments and he was advised hed need to complete 
and income and expenditure assessment form  and one was sent to him  for 
Halifax to consider reduced monthly payments.
It said the income and expenditure form was never returned. And Halifax needed that 
to understand Mr Cs full circumstances so as to know how best to support him. And 
it wouldnt necessarily have put him on a new fixed interest rate product because of 
the possible costs to him should he redeem within an early redemption charge 
period.
Halifaxs letter dated 17 August 2020 followed a telephone conversation with the 
estate in which Halifax acknowledged various administrative failings and offered to 
pay the estate £300. The failings listed were all in relation to its dealings with the 
estate rather than its dealings with Mr C. And in the letter Halifax increased its offer 
to £500 in that regard.
The letter went on to address Halifaxs dealings with Mr C, in particular the estates 
insistence that it should have reduced the interest rate and/or extended the mortgage 
term. Halifax says that it spoke to a family member  who at one time was acting for 
Mr C  who asked for a 12 month payment break. It said it couldnt do that but 
arranged one for 2 months. And throughout conversations there was talk of selling 
the property and using a pension to make payments.
Halifax says Mr C would be able to clear his arrears in full and it did try to reassure 
him that legal action was a last resort. And it again explained that it sent and required 
an income and expenditure form to consider any payment reduction. In that regard it 
explained that it understood Mr C was receiving support from family but would put a 
hold on his account to prevent it chasing him for the completion of the income and 
expenditure assessment form.
With regard to the sale of the property by the estate, Halifax did not accept 
responsibility for the sale price. It said Halifax had no involvement in the sale and it 
sent the estate a letter dated 21 March 2020 saying it would not expect any 
payments on the mortgage for 12 months  giving the estate time to decide on the 
best course of action.
Halifax also assured the estate that its bereavement process is regularly reviewed in 
light of feedback received and that the estates feedback had been noted.
Halifaxs final response letter dated 26 November 2020 repeated previous 
conclusions. It said it would not increase its offer of £500 in respect of the way it had 
dealt with the estate and it was not responsible for the sale price of the property.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, the estate referred its complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the estates complaint. He said he didnt find that Halifax treated Mr C unfairly 
or that it didnt offer him appropriate support during his financial difficulties. With regard to 
the sale of the property, our investigator found that Halifax had allowed the estate 
reasonable time  12 months without having to make payment. 
Our investigator also explained that we cannot direct Halifax to make an award in respect of 
distress and inconvenience caused to a representative of the estate. Thats because the 
representative is not a customer of the Halifax.The estate did not accept our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. It responded at length outlining its concerns 
about our investigators findings. Ill summarise those below:
Mr C didnt have access to the information needed to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment because it was held by the person whod defrauded him. He 
may not have received the forms because that person also had his mail redirected.
The worry of the looming mortgage repayment exacerbated the situation with Mr Cs 
mental health. He was a vulnerable customer and Halifax was made aware of that.
The FCA guidance on this says:
"Firms should understand how vulnerability can be perpetuated or worsened 
by their own actions, or inaction. For example, if a consumer loses their job or 
falls ill and is not offered appropriate forbearance measures on their mortgage 
(where this would be in the customers best interests taking into account the 
overall circumstances), this could lead to greater stress and anxiety. In turn, 
this could lead to the customer taking actions that may create more harm, 
such as borrowing from higher-cost sources in an attempt to address the 
payments shortfall."
Halifax should have offered all workable solutions to Mr C. All it did was give a nil 
payment arrangement and send an income and expenditure form.
Halifax should have followed-up on the income and expenditure assessment when it 
wasnt returned. FCA guidance on vulnerable customers says they may find it difficult 
to clearly communicate their needs.
The estate did not want to sell the house  the executors home  but was compelled 
to by the pressure of the looming mortgage repayment which was unaffordable 
otherwise.
The sale of the property took place at the beginning of the covid pandemic lockdown 
and it was impossible to know how long viewings would be allowed.
The estate has also asked numerous questions. While Ill not go on to answer all of those  
my role here is to decide whether Halifax has acted unfairly under the circumstances  I 
have thought about everything the estate has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide the estates complaint, Ive thought about whether Halifax acted fairly in its 
dealings with Mr C, given all the circumstances and what it would have known. Ive also 
thought about whether the estate was put under unfair pressure by Halifax to sell the 
property at an amount lower than market value.
Halifaxs dealings with Mr C
The first part of the estates complaint is about Halifaxs dealings with Mr C after he informed 
it hed been a victim of fraud and he was recovering from cancer surgery. Halifax has provided its contact notes from that time. Ive read those carefully because theyre likely to 
show what Halifax knew at the time and what action it took.
On 15 May 2019 Mr C called Halifax and informed it of cancer surgery hed had three weeks 
previously and a marital dispute. He requested a payment holiday and was told that wasnt 
an option. He also asked about new rates and was put through to Halifaxs product transfers 
team. A call recording confirms Mr C was given the choice of a branch or telephone 
appointment to discuss and apply for a new interest rate product. He chose to visit a branch 
and an appointment was booked. However, Halifax has no record of him attending the 
appointment or following-up on his request for a new interest rate product.
During a call of 20 May 2019 Mr C used a representative. The representative informed 
Halifax that Mr C had been defrauded by his ex-partner. He said Mr C was not up to date 
with bills but was getting help from family. He also said Mr C wouldnt be able to repay his 
mortgage without selling the property. He wanted to discuss a payment holiday and said    
Mr C was unable to make his contractual monthly payment as he had no income. With 
regard to Mr Cs physical and mental health, the representative said C had been fighting 
cancer for two years but was able to manage his own finances. He was depressed and 
having a nervous breakdown and thats why he couldnt talk to Halifax.
During that call Halifax said it can set up a nil payment arrangement and advised the 
representative of the implications.
Halifax spoke to Mr C again on 10 June 2019 when he called following receipt of a nil 
payment letter. During that call Halifax was informed Mr C was living between two 
properties. Mr C said he was recovering from a secondary operation and wasnt fit to return 
to work. And that he planned to sell the property quickly to clear the mortgage and other 
debts. Mr C had a potential buyer and wasnt concerned about the arrears as they would be 
cleared with the sale proceeds. Halifax informed Mr C of how that would affect interest on 
the account and reporting to credit reference agencies.
Halifax told Mr C it could set up payment arrangements when it knows the best action to take 
so it needed an income and expenditure assessment which it would send to him. In the 
meantime, Mr C said hed pay one third of his contractual monthly payment and made a 
payment of £345. Mr C also asked for his brother-in-law to be a representative, so Halifax 
sent him a letter of authority to sign and return.
The representative called Halifax on 19 July 2019 and asked for the letter that had been sent 
 including the income and expenditure questionnaire  to be sent again as they were not 
received. He updated Halifax on Mr Cs condition  hed suffered an infection and was less 
able to deal with his financial problems. Police were still investigating the fraud and Mr C 
was hopeful of recovering some of his money.
Mr C called Halifax on 29 July 2019 and doesnt appear to have used a representative in any 
calls after that time. Hed received the letter/pack  including the income and expenditure 
questionnaire  and Halifax encouraged him to complete and return it. Mr C also mentioned 
drawing money from a pension, the potential property sale and his alternative thoughts about 
letting the property. Halifax suggested he contact CAB to get help with benefits.
Mr C made several calls to Halifax after 29 July 2019 to bring his mortgage account up to 
date and said he could afford the mortgage going forward and wanted to set up a direct 
debit.
On 4 February 2020 Mr C called Halifax to ask about the mortgage balance and the title 
deeds. He said the property was on the market.The estate has said Halifax should have reduced Mr Cs mortgage interest rate and offered 
to extend its term. And when he didnt return the income and expenditure form, it should 
have followed-up on this, given that Mr C was clearly a vulnerable customer.
Its clear to me that Halifax should have known Mr C was a vulnerable customer from the call 
on 15 May. Halifaxs notes from the time state Mr C was vulnerable. I think that Halifax 
should have had that at the forefront of its thoughts when dealing with Mr C. So, Ive thought 
about whether it acted reasonably with that in mind.
Mr C initially asked for a payment holiday. I think that terminology is possibly misleading in 
terms of what a consumer can expect when experiencing financial difficulty. A payment 
holiday can generally be taken when a borrower has a mortgage that allows overpayments 
and is in a position where the mortgage account is in credit. Although Halifax has said that it 
does allow payment holidays for one-off events that arent related to financial difficulty. 
Those werent the circumstances of Mr Cs request, so a nil payment arrangement was 
appropriate here. Halifax agreed that for two months. I think that was a responsible time 
period initially as that wouldnt allow Mr Cs arrears to increase significantly without review.
Halifax also arranged an appointment for Mr C to visit a branch to discuss a new product. I 
understand that Mr C was under pressure from many aspects of his life at that time and it 
appears that he didnt attend the appointment. But I think an appointment with an advisor 
was the reasonable course of action to properly assess his needs and goals. I think that also 
applies to Halifax sending him an income and expenditure questionnaire. This too was a 
reasonable action to take so that Halifax could properly understand his needs and his ability 
to pay.
I understand the estates concerns that Halifax didnt follow-up on the income and 
expenditure form  so it didnt know it hadnt been received. And I think this concern may 
also be extended to the branch appointment non-attendance. Ive seen throughout Halifaxs 
contact notes that it discussed and put into place breathing space of a set number of days 
at a time. Its a term that means it will not contact borrowers, particularly when that borrower 
is vulnerable, and contact may add pressure at an already stressful time. So, while I agree 
that following-up on both the income and expenditure form and the missed appointment may 
have resulted in more help for Mr C sooner, its possible that may have been damaging. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to take the more cautious route in this case.
In practice, Mr C didnt use the full nil payment arrangement Halifax put in place. He stopped 
using representatives after two months of his initial call and regularly brought his account up 
to date from the end of July. Up to that point, I think it would have appeared to Halifax that 
Mr C had good support from family, but after that became less reliant on that support. So, 
while I think Halifax should still have viewed him as a vulnerable customer from August 
onwards, it was reasonable for it to think, given what it knew, that his circumstances were 
improving and he had control over his finances.
I think there are always instances in tragic circumstances such as these when, in hindsight, it 
is possible to suggest things could have been handled differently and that may have led to a 
different outcome. But I havent seen that Halifax acted unreasonably and Ive seen nothing 
to suggest it wouldnt have offered Mr C appropriate help had he completed and returned the 
income and expenditure questionnaire. I understand some of the information required may 
not have been available to Mr C, but I havent seen that Halifax were told that. 
So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably if it assumed Mr C didnt want to return the 
income and expenditure questionnaire and may not have wanted to pursue its forbearance assistance  particularly as, by that time it knew hed received the questionnaire but could 
see he was regularly bringing his account up to date.
Halifaxs dealings with the estate
The estate has complained that Halifax took too long to address the estates complaints, lied 
about its progress in doing so, addressed letters to Mr C and made other administrative 
errors leading to substantial distress and inconvenience. Halifax has addressed this 
complaint and offered the estate £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The estate says Halifax should pay more than that amount.
Ill not make a decision about whether Halifaxs offer is a fair one. While we can consider the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr C before his passing, we cannot consider the inconvenience 
caused to a representative to the estate since Mr C died. I can see that Halifax has offered 
£500 for the upset and inconvenience caused to the representative of the estate by its 
customer service failings. Ill leave it to the estate to decide if it accepts that offer.
The sale of Mr Cs property at less than market value
Halifax was notified of Mr Cs death on 16 March 2020 and following a call from its 
bereavement team, Halifax wrote to the estate saying it didnt expect payments on the 
account for 12 months. This was to give the estate time to consider its options  whether to 
sell the property to redeem the mortgage, redeem by other means or apply for a mortgage to 
take over the loan.
The estate sold the property in July 2020  well within the 12 months nil payment period 
offered by Halifax. The estate has said the covid pandemic meant that there was uncertainty 
around when it would be able to allow viewings. So, I understand that 12 months was not, in 
practice, as long a period then as it would have been in ordinary circumstances. And that led 
to the estate selling the property as soon as it had the opportunity to do so.
In the circumstances of the covid pandemic, I would expect that lenders add a degree of 
flexibility to allow for the difficulties an executor may have when sorting out the financial 
matters of the estate. However, in this instance the estate sold the property well within the nil 
payment period allowed by Halifax. I havent seen that the estate approached Halifax to 
extend that period, so Halifaxs flexibility in that regard was never tested. And I also havent 
seen that Halifax put any pressure on the estate to sell quickly during the nil payment period 
it offered. So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably and I dont think it influenced the sale 
price of the property.
Summary
I understand that the estate  in particular Mr Cs son  has been through an extremely 
tragic time and the financial element to that has only added to the hardship. But I havent 
seen that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr C or the estate. 
So, I dont uphold the estates complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the estate of Mr Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman