DRN-2776659
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs F complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 7 January 2020, Mr G and Mrs F bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr G and Mrs Gs policy covered a cruise 
holiday theyd planned to take between 23 March and 4 April 2020. The policy cost £605.41 
for the comprehensive level of single trip insurance cover and included cover for six medical 
conditions and optional add-on cruise plus cover. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr G and Mrs Fs accommodation provider got in 
touch on 16 March 2020 to cancel their cruise. So Mr G and Mrs F got in touch with their 
broker to cancel the policy. They wanted a cash refund of their policy premium. 
Ultimately, Great Lakes calculated that Mr G and Mrs Fs policy had 20 days of unused 
cover left. It calculated that they were due a pro-rata cash refund of £96.32. It deducted a 
cancellation fee of £30 from this amount and paid Mr G and Mrs F £66.32. Great Lakes 
didnt include the additional premium theyd paid for the cruise plus cover in its refund 
calculation.
Mr G and Mrs F werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mr G and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld in part. He set out the 
details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this 
case. He also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 7 January 
2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator also acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-
19. He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances was for Great 
Lakes to pay Mr G and Mrs F a cash refund which took into account the unused cover 
remaining on the policy. But he didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to exclude the 
premium Mr G and Mrs F had paid for the cruise plus cover from the refund it paid. And he 
recommended that Great Lakes should refund this amount in full. He felt that because Great 
Lakes would only have been on-risk of a claim under this section of cover if Mr G and Mrs F 
had taken their cruise  which had been cancelled  it wasnt fair for it to retain the premium 
theyd paid. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators recommendations. It agreed to refund the 
additional premium Mr G and Mrs F had paid for the cruise plus cover. It also waived the 
cancellation fee. So it said the total refund due was £130.86. As Mr G and Mrs F had already 
been refunded £66.32, it said the outstanding balance to be refunded would be £64.54.
Mr G and Mrs F disagreed. They felt Great Lakes offer was an insult. They said there was 
no medical risk prior to the policy being cancelled and the bulk of what theyd paid had been 
to cover their pre-existing medical conditions. They said theyd consider a refund of £500 to 
be satisfactory.
In addition, Mr G and Mrs F also complained about the way the broker had sold their policy. I 
need to make it clear that this decision will only consider whether the refund Great Lakes 
has offered is fair and reasonable. A complaint about the sale of Mr G and Mrs Fs policy is 
being considered separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Mrs F, I think Great Lakes offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr G and Mrs Fs cooling-off period ended on 21 January 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 16 March 2020. So their cancellation was significantly 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional 
circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are 
individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. 
This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr G and Mrs Fs contract with 
Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive also taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In this case, I think Great Lakes offer to pay Mr G and Mrs F a pro-rata cash refund for the unused portion of their cover, together with a full refund of their 
cruise plus premium is fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for an 89-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The base premium refund represents the remaining, unused 20 days of 
cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk 
of Mr G and Mrs F making a claim after that point.  And the full cash refund of the 
cruise plus cover takes into account the fact that Great Lakes wouldve only been 
on-risk under that section of the policy if Mr G and Mrs F had begun their cruise. As 
Mr G and Mrs F never travelled, Great Lakes was never covering the risk of a claim 
under this section. Im pleased to note that Great Lakes accepted the investigators 
view on this point. Ive checked Great Lakes calculation and Im satisfied its correct.
I appreciate Mr G and Mrs F feel that they should be entitled to a full refund of the 
premium they paid for their medical cover, as they consider Great Lakes never bore 
any risk of a claim for their medical conditions. However, Great Lakes was covering 
the risk of a cancellation claim after 7 January 2020  which wouldve included any 
claims they made as a result of their pre-existing medical conditions. So in this case, 
medical cover wouldnt only have begun when they departed on their trip.
In this case, given Mr G and Mrs Fs particular circumstances, Great Lakes has chosen to 
offer them a cash refund of £130.86 (less the amount its already paid them) as a refund of 
their premium. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable. So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Mrs F, Im not telling it to pay them a 
full refund of their premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.  
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr G and Mrs F a total refund of £130.86, less the 
amount of £66.32 its already paid them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman