DRN-4076825
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) offer to 
settle their claim under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs F and Mr F had a leak under their kitchen floor which they reported to Admiral. Mrs F 
and Mr F say Admiral agreed for them to use their own builder to carry out the work. Mrs F 
and Mr F say they sent invoices to Admiral in the sum of £32,579 but Admiral offered 
£14,710.16 to settle the claim. Mrs F and Mr F complained as they felt the offer was 
unreasonable because, through the period the works were carried out, they made Admiral 
aware of all costs, and Admiral didnt at any point raise any issues about them using their 
own builder. 
Admiral responded and explained they couldnt see a monetarily broken-down quote from 
Mrs F and Mr Fs builder to justify an increased offer. They said the schedule of works sent 
to Mrs F and Mr F by their loss adjuster will be the works agreed to return the affected rooms 
to their pre-loss condition. They said, theyre only liable for the amount it will cost to rebuild 
or repair from the event and their agent has quoted theyre able to carry out repairs for 
£14,710.16. They said they have pre-arranged special business rates with their contractors, 
but some customers choose to use their own contractor, so they like to be able to offer their 
customers options. Admiral said they stand by their loss adjusters quote but would be happy 
to consider an alternative report if compiled by a suitable expert. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs F and Mr F. He thought Admiral hadnt worked out 
their settlement offer fairly and recommended they base their offer on market rates rather 
than their discounted business rates. Our investigator also recommended Admiral pay 8% 
simple interest on any increase in settlement. Admiral didnt reply so the matter has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Theres no dispute that this is a claim which is covered by Mrs F and Mr Fs 
policy. The dispute relates to the settlement offer and how Admiral have arrived at this offer. 
My starting point is Mrs F and Mr Fs home insurance policy document. This sets out the 
terms and conditions and describes the steps theyll take when a customer notifies them of a 
claim. It says, We may appoint a firm of loss adjusters to act on our behalf to assess your 
claim. And, as the basis for settling claims, We may ask you for more information to 
support your claim, such asoriginal receipts, invoices or valuations Under a heading 
setting out general conditions, it says, You must notagree to or run up any costs without 
our agreement before any work starts and Admiral are entitled to appoint loss adjusters 
or other experts, inspect damage, and arrange for repairs or replacements.
Mrs F and Mr F first discovered the issue in January 2022 when they found water leaking 
through their kitchen flooring. Mrs F and Mr F already had builders carrying out work 
elsewhere in the house, so they contacted Admiral to report the issue and agreed to arrange 
for their own builder to turn off the water and strip out the tiled flooring. Admiral then 
appointed an agent who located the source of the leak, and the pipe was repaired. They also 
appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim. I can see, in February, Admirals agent 
attended Mrs F and Mr Fs property to handle the drying process. In their report they 
explained the kitchen units needed to be removed to help with the drying process. 
Ive listened to a call recording where Mr F calls the loss adjuster to chase up progress. He 
explains Admirals agent had attended his property and confirmed the kitchen needed to be 
removed before they can start the drying process. The call handler queries whether Mr F is 
looking for them to appoint a contractor or if he wants to appoint his own for the strip out 
works. Mr F asks if he can arrange this himself, but he wants to know what hell be covered 
for if he arranges his own contractor. The call handler explains the process would involve   
Mr F getting a quote and sending it to them for approval. 
Mr F is clearly concerned about being covered and wants to ensure he has authority to 
proceed with getting quotes with a view to instructing his own contractor. The call handler 
explains if the agent has suggested the strip out work needs to be done, then it will have to 
be done. The call handler explains the quote would need to cover removal and reinstatement 
of the kitchen. Mr F then queries what will happen if, during the removal process, items are 
damaged, and the call handler explains Mr F will need to take photos of this. Mr F explains 
hes nervous about taking these steps and would like something in writing to confirm what he 
can do and wants to avoid Admiral later claiming they didnt authorise him using his own 
contractor to do the strip out works. The call handler confirms theyll get the claims handler 
to confirm this for Mr F. 
Theres a further call where Mr F explains his builder has started the strip out work in the 
kitchen and the splash back has broken while removing it. Mr F explains hes concerned 
theres likely to be damage to other units also while being removed. The agent asks Mr F to 
upload images as evidence. Theres then a further call during which Mr F explains his builder 
will start putting the new flooring in place and he needs authorisation for his new kitchen to 
be installed. The agent explains shell arrange for the claims handler to call Mr F back about 
his quote. The work is then completed and Mr F sends invoices to Admiral. I can see 
Admirals loss adjuster attended Mrs F and Mr Fs property to validate the claim. This report 
notes the strip out works had been completed so theyve scoped for an entire kitchen. The 
loss adjuster notes Mrs F and Mr Fs quotes are substantially higher than scope and it 
appears to be mainly the labour cost.  
I can see Mrs F and Mr F reject Admirals offer of £14,710.16. Mr F emailed Admiral 
attaching the invoices he has paid. One is for £498 to repair the floor once the source of the 
leak was found. Theres an invoice for £11,460 which Mr F describes was for lifting of the 
floor, removal of kitchen units and supply and relaying of new floor for kitchen and dining 
room. It appears this was amended from the original quote due to the need to raise the floor 
in the kitchen to match the dining room level. Then theres an invoice for £19,771 which Mr F 
describes was for the supply and installation of a replacement kitchen. And an invoice for 
£850 for redecorating the kitchen and dining room. Admiral confirm theyve paid the drying 
costs of £450.72 and £498 repair costs so far.  
Its clear theres a significant difference here between what Mrs F and Mr F have paid and 
what Admiral have offered. I can see Admiral and their loss adjuster believe this is down to a 
difference in labour costs as well as the material costs. Im persuaded this is the case as 
Admiral say they have pre-arranged discounted rates from their contractors so this would, 
understandably, be lower than the market rates paid by Mrs F and Mr F. Im further 
persuaded this is the case as the schedule of works prepared by the loss adjuster broadly 
includes the work which Mr F has described when sending his invoices to Admiral. So, if the 
scope of work doesnt account for the difference in cost, then I believe its more likely than 
not its down to the rates applied for labour and the materials. 
Most insurers have established relationships in place with contractors or suppliers at pre-
agreed rates  which is often below the market price. So, its not unusual or uncommon for 
an insurer, when looking to cash settle a claim, to apply their own contractor and supplier 
rates. Admiral say they have pre-arranged special business rates with their contractors, but 
some customers choose to use their own contractor, so they like to be able to offer their 
customers options. So, as a general principle, where an insurer has agreed for a customer to 
use their own contractor despite them having pre-agreed business rates in place with their 
own contractors, I dont think its unreasonable for the insurer to settle the claim based on 
what it wouldve cost them. But, in such circumstances, I think its important for the insurer to 
make this clear to a customer to allow them to make an informed decision on how to 
proceed. And in this case, I dont think that has happened. 
There were a number of discussions between Mr F and Admiral and the loss adjuster. Its 
clear Mr F was explaining what he was planning on doing and seeking authority to take such 
steps. Its also clear Mr F was very nervous about taking steps which might have a 
detrimental impact on his claim later down the line. From the contact notes Ive seen and the 
call recordings Ive listened to, I cant say Admiral made it clear to Mrs F and Mr F that the 
amount they would pay to settle the claim would be the amount it wouldve cost them to get 
their own contractors to do the work. I think its particularly important for this to be clearly 
explained before a customer arranges any work to be carried out by their own contractor as 
this can have cost difference implications. And in this case, that cost difference is significant. 
Although, broadly, the schedule of works prepared by the loss adjuster appears to include all 
work Mr F has described as being carried out, the invoices provided by Mrs F and Mr F are 
very limited in detail. I can see Admiral have explained Mrs F and Mr F havent provided a 
monetarily broken-down invoice. So, it might be the case that Mrs F and Mr F need to 
provide a more detailed breakdown from their builder of the work carried out and materials 
used if there is any dispute on the schedule of works. But given that Admiral didnt explain 
the consequences of a cash settlement to Mrs F and Mr F, they should settle the claim using 
market rates rather than their discounted contractor rates.     
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral havent offered Mrs F and Mr F fair settlement terms. 
So, provided the schedule of works covers all work carried out, then Admiral should settle 
the claim based on this but using current market rates rather than their own discounted 
contractor and supplier rates. If this settlement amount exceeds Admirals offer of 
£14,710.16, then Admiral should pay 8% simple interest on the additional amount, from the 
date of their offer to the date of settlement. Admiral should provide Mrs F and Mr F with a 
certificate showing any taxation deducted. It is of course open to Admiral to apply the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and to make any other further enquiries they 
feel are necessaryMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman