DRN-2107332
The complaint
Mr P, represented by Mrs P, complains that the car he had leased under a hire agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) couldnt be collected on the day 
the hire agreement ended, the 27 December 2019. Instead it was collected early on 23 
December meaning he had to hire a car for the additional days. Mr P wants the hire costs he 
incurred for this period refunded.
Mr P complains that he experienced several service issues after his final payment had been 
made which caused him distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in December 2016. This was for 24 months 
and then extended for a further 12 months. The agreement was due to end on 27 December 
2019.
In September 2019, Mr P contacted VWFS about a possible further extension to his 
agreement. He then decided not to go ahead with the extension and contacted VWFS in 
October 2019 and confirmed this. He says he was told his last payment would be in 
November 2019. 
Mr P contacted the car collection company to book his car for collection but was told there 
were no collections between 23 December and 2 January. Mr P didnt want to keep the car 
beyond the end of the agreement term as he says he would need to have a MOT carried out 
and didnt want to be liable for any issues that may arise outside of the warranty period. He 
was told he couldnt have a courtesy car for the period to the end of the agreement term if he 
returned the car early. The car was booked for collection on 20 December.
In December 2019, VWFS took a monthly rental payment from Mr Ps account. This wasnt 
expected and Mr P says it meant his mortgage payment bounced. Mrs P contacted VWFS 
and says it took a long time but VWFS did then accept a mistake had been made. Mr P says 
they were told the payment would be refunded but this took much longer than they had been 
told. Following further discussion about the availability slots for collection, the car was 
booked in for collection on 23 December 2019. 
The car was collected, and Mr P says he had to spend time and money arranging and 
collecting a hire vehicle as they needed a car over Christmas. Mr P says this process 
caused him stress and he wants the costs refunded.
In January 2020, Mr P says that VWFS tried again to take payment but as he had cancelled 
the direct debit this didnt happen. He received a letter about the end of agreement charges. 
Mrs P says that they were told the outstanding amount would be put on hold until Mr Ps 
complaint had been resolved. However, following this they received arrears letters which 
Mr P says caused further stress and concern regarding any impact on his credit file.
VWFS issued a final response letter to Mr P dated 7 January 2020. It said that the third party 
contracted to collect the car was closed between Christmas and New Year. It says Mr P 
remained liable for the car until the car was collected. It apologised for the issue with 
collection. Following discussions about the collection date it agreed to refund four days of 
the rentals to reflect the early collection of the car.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She thought that VWFS had done enough to 
try to arrange a convenient collection time for Mr P. She noted that a date before and after 
the agreement end date had been offered and that VWFS had said if Mr P incurred costs as 
a result of the delayed collection these would be refunded. Therefore, she didnt think VWFS 
was required to refund Mr P the costs he incurred hiring a car in December 2019.
Our investigator thought that Mr P had been caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by the issues he experienced by a payment being taken in December 2019 
and the delay in this being refunded. She also said the contact notes had said Mr Ps 
account would be put on hold, but this appeared to be incorrect information and Mr P was 
then caused further distress by receiving arrears letters about the amount outstanding on his 
account. She said she hadnt seen any evidence of any financial loss or adverse impact on 
Mr Ps credit file but did think that compensation should be paid for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. She recommended Mr P be paid £100.
VWFS agreed with our investigators view. Mrs P didnt. She said that the car was able to be 
delivered on 27 December when Mr P entered into the hire agreement so it was reasonable 
that it would be able to be collected on 27 December at the end of the agreement term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ps agreement term ended on 27 December 2019. I understand it was frustrating 
for Mr P to be told his car couldnt be collected on the 27 December and appreciate 
this was particularly difficult given he had wanted to use the car over the Christmas 
period. However, I find that Mr P was provided with reasonable options by VWFS to 
address this issue. He was given the option of having the car collected early, on 23 
December, or at the start of January. I understand that the delayed collection would 
have meant Mr P would need to have a MOT on the car and appreciate his concerns 
about the additional liability but VWFS offered to cover the costs he incurred for the 
MOT and other additional costs. I find this was a reasonable offer and while I 
understand why Mr P decided to have the car collected earlier this was his choice. As 
he could have had use of the car until the end of the agreement term I do not find 
that VWFS should refund any costs he incurred for a hire car at that time. I also note 
that Mr P was aware of the issue with collection dates a few weeks before the end of 
his agreement and so had the opportunity to mitigate the issue. 
Mr P was refunded the four days of rentals to reflect the car being collected four days 
early. I find this reasonable.
Mr Ps final payment for his hire agreement was made in November 2019. However, 
a further payment was taken in December 2019. I understand this happened due to 
the informal extension being agreed in September 2019 but as Mr P wasnt told there 
would be any issue when he contacted VWFS to say he no longer wanted the 
extension, I find it reasonable that he wouldnt have expected a payment to be taken 
in December 2019. Mr P said this payment resulted in his mortgage payment not 
being made. The payment was refunded to Mr P, but this took longer than he was told it would take. I have no evidence that this issue caused Mr P any financial loss, 
but I can understand it was distressing and that time had to be spent resolving the 
issue. I can also appreciate his concern that a payment attempt was also made in 
January 2020  this wasnt successful as the direct debit had been cancelled.
As well as the issues with the payments, Mr P was told that his account would be put 
on hold and he wouldnt need to pay the outstanding amount until his complaint had 
been resolved. However, he was then contacted about the payment and then told his 
account shouldnt have been put on hold as his dispute wasnt about the end of 
contract charge. While VWFS then agreed as a gesture of goodwill to put Mr Ps 
account on hold, I can understand this issue caused him further distress and 
inconvenience.
Overall, while I find that VWFS did provide Mr P with reasonable options regarding 
the collection of his car, I find it didnt provide him with the service it should have after 
he had made his final payment on the hire agreement. This meant he needed to 
make several calls to resolve the issues and while I have nothing to show that he has 
suffered a financial loss these issues did cause him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Therefore, I agree that compensation should be paid for this and 
agree with our investigators recommendation of £100.
Mr P has also raised concerns about his credit file being affected by the issues. 
Based on the information provided by VWFS I have no reason to believe Mr Ps 
credit file has been affect by these issues but if there is adverse information recorded 
in regard to the points addressed in this decision I would expect that to be removed. 
Putting things right
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mr P £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the issue with the payments and the incorrect 
information about his account not being placed on hold. If adverse information has been 
recorded on Mr Ps credit file about the issues raised in this complaint I would expect it to be 
removed.
My decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited should take the actions set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman