DRN-3034239
The complaint
Miss F complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and the credit limit 
increases they applied to her credit card.
What happened
Miss F was approved for a credit card account with Barclays in July 2011, where she was 
provided with an initial credit limit of £3,500. Following this, Miss F was supplied with five 
limit increases between August 2014 and July 2017 taking her credit limit to £10,700.
In 2018, Miss F was struggling to meet her minimum monthly repayments for the account. 
So, she took out a loan to clear her existing balance. But due to her financial situation, she 
needed to use her credit card again. In late 2018, Barclays reduced Miss Fs credit limit to 
£3,950 and she has since used the majority of this limit. 
In 2020, Miss F raised a complaint with Barclays. Miss F thought Barclays decision to 
increase her credit limit multiple times was unreasonable and had placed her into financial 
difficulty. She explained she struggled to meet her minimum monthly repayments, which led 
to her taking out a loan to clear her credit card debt. But explained her payments to this loan 
forced her into needing to use the credit card again and incur a debt shes unable to repay in 
full. So, she wanted Barclays to accept her offer of £2,000 as full and final settlement of the 
account.
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They explained theyd only considered events on the 
account from the previous six years, which took them to October 2014. And have reviewed 
the account and its limit increases, they thought theyd applied these fairly. They thought 
Miss F had maintained her account well, meeting at least her minimum payments each 
month. So, they didnt think there was any information to suggest Miss F was struggling 
financially. They also made Miss F aware she was notified of each increase before it was 
applied and Miss F had never rejected an increase. Because of this, they thought theyd 
acted fairly and didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. 
So, they explained Miss F would need to pay the outstanding balance in full to close the 
account. Miss F remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Barclays initially argued that the first limit increase was out of jurisdiction due to the time that 
had elapsed since the event. Our investigator didnt agree and a final decision was issued 
explaining the entire lifetime of the account could be investigated as Miss F raised her 
complaint to us within three years of her awareness to complain. Barclays accepted this 
ruling and our investigator continued to look into the complaint.
Having done so, our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think 
the second limit increase in April 2015, where the limit rose from £4,700 - £8,700 was 
reasonable. They referred to Miss Fs testimony that in 2014 she split from her partner, 
meaning she was a single parent with only one annual income of £20,500 supporting the 
household. Our investigator explained this meant, after considering Miss Fs other debts 
which included a recently acquired loan, Miss F was paying almost half her wage on existing 
debts before living costs were accounted for. They recognised Miss F was able to maintain 
her payments after the increase was provided but they explained this didnt mean the 
increase was affordable or repayable in a sustainable way. So, they thought Barclays 
shouldve completed further checks, such as an income and expenditure form, before 
applying the increase. And they thought if Barclays had, they wouldnt have increased Miss 
Fs credit limit.
And as our investigator didnt think the limit increase in April 2015 was fair, they thought it 
followed that the increases applied to the account after were also unfair as Miss Fs limit 
shouldnt have been at that level in the first place. So, they thought Barclays should refund 
any interest and charges Miss F paid on the account after April 2015. And if this cleared 
Miss Fs remaining balance and left an amount owed to her, this amount should be paid plus 
8% from the date the interest was paid to the date of settlement. And finally, they thought 
any adverse information reported to Miss Fs credit file after April 2015 should be removed. 
Miss F accepted this outcome but Barclays didnt. They provided more information which 
referred to limit increases after April 2015. Our investigator considered these and issued 
another view explaining his outcome remained the same. Barclays continued to disagree 
and maintained their view that the limit increases were fair. They explained theyd based the 
increases on Miss Fs probability to default calculation, which fell below the threshold they 
used on each occasion. And they pointed to Miss Fs maintenance of the account, where 
she had made payments above the minimum amount on several occasions. They thought 
this together suggested the increases were fair and so didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. As Barclays disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain what I have and havent considered. The 
jurisdiction challenge has already been addressed so Ive been able to consider the lifetime 
of the account. But Miss Fs complaint relates to the credit limit increases, rather than the 
actual approval of the account, so Ive focused on the increases only.
There were five limit increases and Ive looked at them in chronological order. The first 
increase was applied in August 2014, rising from £3,500 to £4,700 which is a percentage 
rise of 34%. For me to say an increase was reasonable, Id need to be satisfied the checks 
Barclays made and the information these checks provided suggested that Miss F would be 
able to afford the increase and have an ability to repay the balance in full in a sustainable 
way.
For this increase, I think Miss Fs credit file showed she had a relatively low level of 
unsecured debt with one mail order account and one personal loan, totalling around £5,600 
in value. And Miss F was maintaining her account well, showing an ability to pay more than 
her minimum monthly repayments. So, I dont think a limit increase of £1,200, or 34%, was 
unreasonable considering the length of time Miss F had held her account and the amount of 
security this provided Barclays that she was able to afford more.
Ive then thought about the second limit increase which was applied in April 2015, rising from 
£4,700 to £8,700, which is a percentage rise of 85%. Again, I need to be satisfied the checks Barclays made were proportionate to size of the increase. And I dont think they were. 
This increase meant Miss Fs credit limit had more than doubled within ten months, which I 
think is a substantial rise. And in this second increase alone, Miss Fs limit had almost 
doubled. From what Ive seen, Barclays based this increase on a credit score which focused 
on Miss Fs likelihood to default and the maintenance of her account. I dont think this was a 
reasonable or proportionate level of checks.
When Barclays applied this increase, it was almost three years since Miss F had taken out 
the credit card. I think its reasonable to assume in this time, Miss Fs circumstances may 
have changed since the initial application. So, despite Miss Fs ability to maintain her 
account, I think Barclays shouldve returned to Miss F to ensure her income and overall 
financial situation hadnt changed and that an increase of this size was affordable.
Had Barclays done so, I think their decision to offer an increase wouldve been different. This 
is because Miss F has confirmed shed split with her partner in the year before, meaning she 
only had access to her income of £20,500 in her household. And she needed to maintain 
mortgage payments and support her dependent using this only source of income. Having 
calculated Miss Fs monthly income against the creditor repayments listed on her credit file, 
Miss F wouldve spent more than half of her monthly income on debt repayments after the 
limit was increased. And thats based on only the minimum monthly payments being made.
So, I dont think her financial situation suggested she could afford an 84% increase in her 
credit limit. I recognise the limit fell within Barclays threshold based on Miss Fs likelihood to 
default. And I recognise Miss F was able to meet her minimum monthly payments for the 
credit card after the limit was increased. But crucially, I dont think this means the increase 
was affordable. When considering affordability, I have to be satisfied Miss F was able to 
repay the balance in a sustainable way and have the ability to clear the balance. Not just 
meet her minimum monthly payments to avoid a default. And the limit increase meant Miss F 
could have a single debt of almost 50% of her annual income. Considering her individual 
situation, and the other debts she had on her credit file at the time, I cant say this was 
affordable. So, I dont think Barclays decision to increase Miss Fs limit was fair.
As I dont think this limit increase was fair, it follows that the subsequent increases were also 
unfair as Miss Fs limit should never have been at the level that it was. So, increasing it 
further only worsened Miss Fs financial position. I recognise Barclays provided further 
information about these limit increases in response to our investigators view and I have 
considered the additional context they provided to those limit increases. But they dont alter 
or impact my decision for the second limit increase and the fact this impacts the fairness of 
the limit increases that followed.
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclays acted reasonably when increasing Miss Fs limit in April 2015, and 
any limit increase thereafter, Ive thought about what they should do to put things right. Any 
award or direction I make is intended to place Miss F back in the situation she wouldve 
been, had Barclays acted fairly in the first place.
I understand Miss F wanted Barclays to accept her offer of £2,000 in full settlement of her 
account as a resolution to her complaint. But this isnt something Im able to direct as Miss F 
had use of the funds available through the limit increases so she still has a responsibility to 
repay the amount she was able to make use of. But if Barclays acted fairly, Miss F wouldnt have been able to utilise the increased limit on 
her credit card, meaning she wouldnt have incurred charges and interest on this amount 
plus any additional amounts added through further limit increases. So, I think Barclays 
should restructure Miss Fs account to refund her all interest and charges applied to Miss Fs 
account from 8 April 2015 onwards. If this clears Miss Fs outstanding balance and leaves a 
capital payment owing to her, then any funds should include 8% statutory interest from date 
it was paid to the date of settlement. If an outstanding balance remains after this restructure, 
Barclays should work with Miss F to arrange a suitable and affordable repayment plan. And 
finally, I think Barclays should remove any adverse information reported to Miss Fs credit file 
after 8 April 2015.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard and direct them to take the following action:
Restructure Miss Fs account so all interest and charges applied from 8 April 2015 
are refunded;
If this results in Miss Fs balance being cleared, any additional funds should be paid 
to Miss F plus 8% statutory interest from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
If a balance remains, Barclays should work with Miss F to arrange a suitable and 
affordable repayment plan; and
Remove any adverse information reported to Miss Fs credit file from 8 April 2015.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman