DRN-4072109
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had 
covered around 72,000 miles.
Mr F has told this service that at the point of supply the dealership agreed to supply and fit a 
new nox sensor.
A few months after getting the car, Mr F noticed that the engine management light had 
illuminated. Mr F believed that this was related to the nox sensor. He tried to claim under the 
warranty, but the dealership wasnt able to provide documentation to show that a new nox 
sensor had been fitted to the car at the point of supply.
Mr F complained to Moneybarn. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said the fault was 
likely to have been due to wear and tear. It offered £250 towards the cost of repairs as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr F remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that she couldnt be satisfied, based 
on the evidence, that there was a fault with the nox sensor, or that Moneybarn supplied a car 
which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr F didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things like the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the goods 
includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr F was second hand, so Id expect it to have a degree of wear and 
tear commensurate with its age and mileage, and for the car to require more repairs and 
maintenance than. say, a brand new car.
Ive considered all of the available information and Ive thought about whether there was a 
fault with the car. Mr F has said that there was a fault with the nox sensor. Hes provided an 
invoice dated August 2022. This shows that some work was carried out on the car, including 
an oil change. It also shows that there were some stored codes relating to the nox sensor.
Ive taken this information into account. However, because there isnt a diagnostic report or 
an engineers report which states that there is a fault with the nox sensor, I dont have any 
independent evidence to say that theres a fault with the car. And because the nox sensor 
was replaced in October 2021, I cant be certain that the stored fault codes dont relate to 
this and havent been cleared from the computer.
This service asked Mr F to provide evidence to show that a further repair was carried out to 
the nox sensor. Mr F said that he paid for the repair in cash and isnt able to provide an 
invoice. Without any evidence that a further repair to the nox sensor was carried out, Im 
unable to safely conclude that the nox sensor was faulty.
Ive also considered the vehicle health check report dated October 2022. This shows that the 
tyre pressure warning light was illuminated. However, it doesnt report that the engine 
management light is illuminated or that there is a fault with the nox sensor. So, this health 
check report doesnt assist me in determining whether there was a fault with the nox sensor. 
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that there 
was a fault with the car, or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I 
wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman