DRN-2820013
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the assistance Amtrust Europe Limited gave to him when he 
claimed on his breakdown cover insurance policy.
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mr T and his family were on a trip abroad when his car broke down on a Saturday afternoon. 
He called Amtrust for help. Its recovery operator took his car to a local garage but, as it was 
the weekend and the garage was closed, the cars fault couldn't be diagnosed until the 
coming Monday. Mr T paid for himself and his family to travel to their destination in a 
neighbouring country by other means. Mr T then hired a car to keep them mobile. On the 
Monday morning the garage diagnosed the fault with Mr Ts car and he agreed for the 
garage to carry out the repairs, which were completed by the Wednesday. Mr T later 
travelled home in his car as originally planned.
Mr T complained to Amtrust that it hadn't covered the costs of his alternative travel 
arrangements after his car broke down. Amtrust didn't think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Amtrust needed to take any further action. Mr T didn't agree so his complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I can understand it must have been immensely stressful for Mr T and his family when his car 
broke down abroad and he still had a considerable onward journey to make. It seems that 
Mr T doesn't think that Amtrust provided the cover he expected in those circumstances. But I 
think Amtrust gave Mr T the help his policy entitled him to. 
Mr Ts policy says that if he broke down while abroad Amtrust would send a recovery 
operator and, if his car couldn't be repaired, it would take it to a local garage. Thats what 
happened. But as it was a Saturday, and the garage was closed for the weekend, the cars 
problem couldn't be diagnosed or fixed straightaway. 
Mr Ts policy says that if his car couldnt be repaired within 48 hours - or in an agreed 
timeframe - then Amtrust would take the car and Mr T to his destination. Mr T had already 
taken his family to their destination abroad before the 48 hours were up. And, on the Monday 
morning, before the expiry of the 48 hour timeframe, the garage told Mr T what repairs were 
required and when they expected to complete those. Mr T agreed for the garage to do those 
repairs. So his car was repaired within an agreed timeframe. It follows that, under the terms 
of his policy, there was no requirement for Amtrust to move his car to his destination abroad 
as the repairs could be completed within the agreed timeframe.
Mr T thinks Amtrust should have covered the costs of his hire car while his car was at the 
garage. But thats not something that his policy entitled him to. Mr Ts policy says it will only 
cover hire car costs when a breakdown happens in the UK. And as Mr T was abroad, his 
policy didn't cover hire car costs. So I don't think Amtrust did anything wrong in not covering 
Mr Ts hire car costs while he was abroad. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman