DRN-4333873
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked his accounts without notice and 
wouldnt explain why. His bills went unpaid. He would like compensation and an explanation.
What happened
Mr M had accounts with NatWest. In August 2022 his accounts were blocked. Mr M didnt 
receive any notice of this.
Mr M complained to NatWest. They said they were entitled to block the account and relied 
on the terms and conditions of the accounts. 
Mr Ms accounts were eventually closed in 2023 and his funds were returned to him. Mr M 
has told us he raised a data subject access request (DSAR) with NatWest, and he has been 
having problems with this. 
Mr M complained to our service. The main issue Mr M was concerned about was the block 
on his account. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought NatWest had 
acted in accordance with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked the 
account. 
Mr M was unhappy with the view he thought it couldnt be right that a bank block an account 
without a reason. He believes the bank didnt have a reason because they returned his funds 
after three weeks.
The investigator replied that the return of the funds in a period of three weeks wasnt an 
indication that the bank had done anything wrong in blocking Mr Ms accounts, as the bank 
were entitled to review an account to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr M said he was happy to answer questions that NatWest asked once the need for the 
questions was explained to him, but NatWest had never contacted him again.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information NatWest 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied NatWest were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ms accounts. 
Mr M has said that NatWest returned the funds to him so that suggests that they werent 
entitled to review his accounts. But I disagree, the bank was always entitled to review the 
accounts in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations, so I dont think they 
have done anything wrong here.
As part of the review NatWest asked Mr M for more information. Mr M was unhappy to 
provide it and thought that the caller had been abrupt in the way the questions were asked. 
Mr M complained about this. I can see that Mr M spoke to the Complaints Team and the 
matter was resolved. The final response dated 13 June 2022 says that Mr M is happy to 
answer any questions that NatWest may be required to ask.
I appreciate that Mr M is concerned that no further call was made to him, and he wasnt 
asked any further questions although he was happy to answer, now the reasons behind the 
questions had been explained to him. I accept that Mr M has said to us and the bank that he 
is willing to answer any questions and he feels frustrated that the bank havent contacted 
him to follow up. 
Mr M thinks NatWest should have called him back and they didnt. There isnt a call 
recording of the phone conversation, but the letter of 13 June 2022 suggests that Mr M had 
been led to believe that a call would be made to him, and he would have a chance to answer 
any questions. I appreciate this failure to call made Mr M frustrated. He has said he believes 
that the way he was treated became a personal vendetta. I accept that NatWest should have 
called Mr M, but I have seen no evidence that suggests the failure to call was a result of any 
malice or vendetta on the part of NatWest.
Ive gone on to consider if NatWest had called Mr M a second time would it have made a 
difference to what happened to his accounts. Having looked at the evidence Im satisfied that 
it wouldnt. So, although NatWest should have called Mr M back, I dont think this failure to 
call him a second time adversely impacted the review, block and eventual closure of Mr Ms 
accounts, so I wont be awarding compensation for this.
Mr Ms account was blocked for about three weeks. I have looked at the evidence and Im 
satisfied NatWest were entitled to block the account for that period and no delays occurred. 
So, Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly when they blocked the account in August 2022. I 
appreciate Mr M would have wanted to be given notice of the block, but NatWest arent 
obliged to give their customers notice so I cant say they have done anything wrong by 
blocking the account and not giving Mr M notice.
Mr M has mentioned that he has raised a DSAR with NatWest and he has had problems with 
having this dealt with. The investigator suggested Mr M should complain to the bank about 
their failure to respond. I suggest that if the DSAR isnt complied with Mr M could complain to 
the Information Commissioner Office (ICO) about the failure to comply with a DSAR.
In summary although I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied 
that NatWest acted fairly when they reviewed and blocked Mr Ms accounts and I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman