DRN-3166548
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Madison approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr H in June 2017. It was repayable over 24 months 
at just over £144 each month. Madison has told us that the balance was assigned to a debt 
purchaser on 30 April 2019. 
Mr H complained in May 2021 and received Madisons final response letter (FRL) in 
June 2021. Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of 
our adjudicators looked at the complaint. 
Our adjudicator thought that the details Mr H had given to Madison, together with the checks 
it carried out before lending meant that Madison had carried out proportionate checks and so 
it had not done anything wrong before approving the loan. 
Mr H said that he wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. He would send in copy 
bank statements to support his complaint. The statements received by us all post-date the 
loan approval date by several months. These cover the period June 2018 to April 2019.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint 
and I will explain here.
Mr H was a new customer to Madison. From Madisons records it has sent to us, Mr H had 
informed it he was living at home with parents and his salary was £1,700 a month. His 
outgoings were relatively low at £110 for household items and food, £100 a month for 
utilities, £30 a month for other credit obligations and £187 a month for insurances. He had 
given the reason for the loan - everyday expenses. 
Madison has explained that it increased these expenditure figures and so its own 
calculations were based on higher expenditure figures than those provided by Mr H at the 
point of application. 
Having reviewed the records Madison has sent to me, it carried out an income verification 
which dovetailed with what Mr H had told them. Madison carried out a credit search and it 
has sent to us those results. It did not show a great deal of outstanding debt. And revealed 
little to give it concern. 
An indication as to why it was Madison likely considered Mr Hs financial situation not to be a 
precarious one is this summary of Mr Hs indebtedness at the time he applied in June 2017. 
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 1,200
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 499
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 500
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 99 %And although I can see Mr H did have registered a default or two  they dated back to 
2012/2014 and either had been, or were being, paid down. Having a relatively small amount 
of historic adverse information on a credit file is not usually a reason not to lend. Mr Hs 
overall debt level was low in June 2017. 
So, the proportionate checks for Mr Hs loan were fulfilled and the information Madison acted 
on before approving the loan was appropriate. Mr Hs figures combined with what it had 
seen on the credit searches led it to consider Mr H could afford the loan. 
Mr Hs representative has said that his bank statements are relevant and ought to be 
reviewed to gain a full picture. I do not agree with that. Sometimes that may be the situation, 
but not with Mr Hs circumstances as I consider that Madison had done all that I would have 
expected it to have done before lending.
And in any event, the copy bank statements we received from Mr H post-date the loan 
approval date and so are completely irrelevant when deciding on a complaint about 
irresponsible lending of a loan sold in June 2017. We have been informed that Mr H is not 
able to obtain the statements from June 2017.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman