DRN-3364485
The complaint
Mr Z complains Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown) 
encashed all of the holdings within his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
Hes unhappy because he only wanted to transfer three of his holdings to an account with a 
separate provider. 
What happened
Mr Z contacted Hargreaves Lansdown on 5 October 2021 to inform them of his intention to 
transfer three of his holdings to a different account with a separate provider. 
However, on 20 October 2021 Mr Z emailed Hargreaves Lansdown concerned because all 
of his holdings had been encashed. At the time, he thought there had been some fraudulent 
activity. He asked a representative to call on his behalf the following morning and also sent a 
second email. He complained and was unhappy he was told they were following his 
instructions when selling the investments. 
There was some further complaint correspondence and Hargreaves Lansdown provided 
their final response on 12 November 2021. They said they had received instructions from the 
separate provider via their electronic transfer system to sell all of his holdings on 19 
October. They said their systems would typically automatically process requests received 
from another provider and they would be obliged to act on such instructions. Hargreaves 
Lansdown also confirmed they were corresponding with the other provider but hadnt yet 
received a response. 
Mr Z remained unhappy and asked us to investigate his complaint. 
On 30 December 2021, Hargreaves Lansdown wrote to Mr Z to confirm the account had 
been corrected and was in the position it would have been had they not been instructed to 
sell his holdings. They also referred to the relevant contract notes.
The Investigator issued his view and explained why he felt Hargreaves Lansdown had 
reasonably acted on instructions when selling Mr Zs holdings. However, he felt they should 
pay £100 compensation to Mr Z to recognise the impact of sending incorrect contract notes 
after the position of his account had been corrected.  
Mr Z responded to the view and explained he was unhappy with the proposed resolution. 
Additionally, he explained he was having further issues. I wanted to be clear that Im only 
able to look into the complaint as described above. I cant look into anything which has 
arisen since. I note he has contacted Hargreaves Lansdown directly about this. 
Hargreaves Lansdown also responded to the view and explained they accepted the 
Investigators findings. 
As Mr Z didnt agree with the view, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the transfer, Ive seen the letter sent by Mr Z to Hargreaves Lansdown and can 
see he said he wanted to transfer three of his holdings to a separate provider. He specifically 
listed which holdings these were. 
Hargreaves Lansdown have explained they received an information request and they 
provided a valuation for Mr Zs holdings on 18 October 2021. Also, theyve explained they 
received an electronic transfer request and theyve provided a screenshot of the system. It 
states to transfer out. Also, to please sell all. Theyve also provided screen shots which 
show all the holdings were subsequently sold on 20 October. Therefore, it does appear they 
reasonably acted on the instructions they received from the other provider. 
Ive seen this is when Mr Z got in touch with them and I can see he was particularly 
distressed. He marked the subject of the enquiry as Fraud and explained that he was 
horrified. And I do want to assure Mr Z that I understand this situation was distressing for 
him. He confirmed he was not planning to cash in any of his holdings. 
Hargreaves Lansdown have also provided copies of call notes. In the notes I can see they 
explained they had received instructions to transfer. And I appreciate why this would have 
been confusing for Mr Z. There is a second telephone note in which Hargreaves Lansdown 
record explaining to Mr Z that they had received incorrect instructions. They said they would 
contact the other provider to prevent the cash transfer. I can see they also emailed Mr Z on 
the same day. They provided an explanation about the electronic transfer request and 
apologised for the inconvenience caused. They confirmed they would correspond with the 
other provider to ensure his account was put in the same position had the sales not been 
instructed. Ive seen a copy of correspondence which shows they contacted the other 
provider on the same day. 
Therefore, Im content Hargreaves Lansdown acted reasonably promptly in investigating 
what had happened and explaining this to Mr Z. I can see Mr Z contacted them again on 26 
October 2021 because he was concerned about the position of his investments and wanted 
to make sure he wouldnt lose out. Hargreaves Lansdown responded the following day and 
explained they needed the other providers agreement to cover the associated costs. This 
was a reasonable explanation as it doesnt seem Hargreaves Lansdown were responsible 
for the initial error. 
Ive seen call notes from November 2021 where Hargreaves Lansdown recorded explaining 
to the other provider that they were waiting for their response about the costs. Hargreaves 
Lansdown received confirmation on 13 December. Hargreaves Lansdown reversed the sales 
and wrote to Mr Z to confirm as much on 30 December. They confirmed his account was put 
into the position it would have been had they not been instructed to sell. Thereby assuring 
Mr Z there had been no financial loss to him. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Hargreaves Lansdown did anything wrong here. It seems they 
reasonably acted on instructions they received from another provider. When Mr Z contacted 
them to explain he had not intended for all his investments to be sold, they responded 
quickly to explain what happened and sought to correct the position. 
When Hargreaves Lansdown emailed Mr Z on 30 December 2021 to confirm corrective 
action had been taken, they confirmed they had sent contract notes. However, Hargreaves 
Lansdown have accepted they sent incorrect contract notes to Mr Z. I agree that something 
went wrong here. Im also mindful of the previous issues Mr Z had experienced with his 
account and the worry this must have added. 
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown sent incorrect contract notes and theyve apologised for this. Ive 
considered the impact to Mr Z and understand this was following an already stressful period. 
I can appreciate the frustration and worry caused in light of the issues already experienced. 
Whilst Im not persuaded these issues were caused by Hargreaves Lansdown, they were aware it had been a particularly stressful time and the incorrect contract notes added to Mr 
Zs experience. Having thought about the impact, Im content £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited should pay Mr Z £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman