DRN-3640037
The complaint
Mr T and Ms C complain that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) unfairly declined claims on their 
Premier Guarantee building warranty policy. The policy covers their apartment and its 
building. Theres external damage to the building, and water damage in some of the 
apartments and communal areas.
In addition to being a leaseholder of one of the apartments, Mr T is a director of the property 
management company.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building of 21 apartments. The other 20 leaseholders have 
the same, but separate complaints, with our service. Mr T and two other directors (who are 
also leaseholders) brought the complaints to our service on behalf of the leaseholders. All 
the parties are aware that what I say here in respect of Mr T and Ms Cs complaint, also 
applies to the same complaints brought by the other leaseholders. 
The ground floor of the property is a commercial unit, which I understand is occupied by a 
retailer. 
The 21 residential leaseholders each have ten-year Premier Guarantee building warranty 
policies, underwritten by SoL. The policies started in 2008. 
In 2017, claims were made for rainwater ingress in some of the apartments and communal 
areas. I understand the claims were made by apartments 14, 18, 19, and 21. Because the 
claims were made during the last eight years of the cover, section 3.3 of the policy terms 
applies. The claims were handled by a loss adjuster, but for ease, Ill simply refer to SoL 
when referring to the actions of its agents.
Section 3.3 covers major damage. The policy terms state major damage is:
-a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit  b) a 
condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of or 
physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit  In either case caused by a 
defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of: the Structure; or the 
waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope.
In the event of a claim, a policy excess is payable. Under the policy definition for excess, 
the terms state: 
-As noted on the Initial Certificate and Certificate of Insurance the Underwriter shall 
not be liable for the first part of any payment made in respect of a valid claim under 
the Policy for a Housing Unit.
-A separate Excess shall apply to each separately identifiable cause of loss or 
damage for which a payment is made under the Policy by the Underwriter, regardless 
of whether more than one cause of loss is notified at the same time.
In relation to section 3.3, each leaseholders insurance certificate explains their excess will 
apply for each and every separate cause of loss for each Housing Unit. On the date the 
cover commenced, the excess was £1,000, but it increased each year in-line with the 
RICS House Rebuilding Cost Index (or by 12% per annum compound if this is less).
In June 2018, the managing agent commissioned a survey from a company, who Ill refer to 
as C. SoL accepted the policy definition for major damage had been met. However, SoL 
concluded there were two heads of loss and because they are common parts claims, 21 
individual excesses apply, twice. SoL noted the collective excess was therefore about 
£53,000, and it estimated the repair costs would only be about £35,000.
A new managing agent took over the site and it appointed a third-party to help with the claim, 
who Ill refer to as B. B appointed a further surveyor, who Ill refer to as H. H estimated the 
repair costs to be £238,000. SoL asked for documentation to support the estimate. B then 
appointed a different surveyor, who Ill refer to as D. D provided a report and estimated 
repair costs to be £250,000. SoL didnt consider the costings to be accurate, and it 
appointed its own engineer, who Ill refer to as A.
Following As reports, SoL concluded there was potentially up to 18 defects that could have 
resulted in the rainwater ingress. Therefore, SoL said there were 18 heads of loss, which 
gave an excess of about £466,682. Because the excess exceeded the managing agents 
£250,000 repair estimate (and SoLs updated repair estimate of about £74,500), SoL 
declined the claim.
The managing agent complained, making the following points:
- The original heads of loss had unfairly been turned from two to 18; and these were 
referred to as potential defects that could or appear to have caused water 
ingress. The managing agent concluded liability had been denied based on 
speculation.
- The managing agent referred to a recent High Court judgement to support its 
argument the damage should be considered under a single claim.
- The managing agent said it considered the building to not be weathertight. It said this 
is likely due to the incorrect installation of the roof, cladding, and coping stones. It 
said it considered there to be only one claim, and further intrusive inspection is 
required as the issues may well be linked.
- The managing agent said the leaseholders had been suffering the water ingress for a 
significant period. It said SoL had caused delays and sought to avoid liability. It also 
said SoL had failed to identify the actual cause of the water ingress and the cost to 
make the building weathertight.
SoL didnt uphold the complaint. In its response, SoL explained the High Court judgement 
didnt apply. It noted the High Court judgement involved a different insurer and different 
policy terms.
The property management companys directors brought the complaint to our service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt think it should be upheld. Because the 
directors disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ive already issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In 
my provisional decision, I said:I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What type of claims are being made  common parts or demised?
The section of the policy that applies covers  physical damage  caused by a defect in 
the design, workmanship, materials or components of: the Structure; or the waterproofing 
elements of the Waterproof Envelope.
The policy is covering the damage caused by the defect, not the defect itself. However, it 
follows that to achieve an effective and lasting repair for the insured damage, the defect 
needs to be repaired as part of the claim. Therefore, its the location of the damage that 
determines the type of claim being made. 
In this case, damage has been reported to the common parts and individual apartments. As 
such, there are potentially two types of claims: common parts claims and demised claims. 
Where theres damage to the common parts, common parts claims need to be made by 
each leaseholder that shares responsibility for the common parts, for their share of the 
repair costs. In that scenario, each leaseholder would have their own excess for every 
common parts claim they make.
Where theres only internal damage to some apartments, irrespective of where the defect is, 
demised claims needs to be made by the leaseholders who own the damaged apartments. 
In that scenario, only the leaseholders making a claim would have an excess to pay, for 
every demised claim they make.
SoL has considered the damage under common parts claims. Overall, in the context of the 
reports Ive seen, I consider that approach to be reasonable in the first instance. I say this 
because, the various reports point towards damage to the common parts, i.e. cladding, 
walls, and the underlying structure; not just there simply being damage to some of the 
apartments, due to defects in the common parts.
However, should those common parts claims not succeed, SoL ought reasonably to consider 
demised claims for the apartments with internal damage. Leaseholders are still able to make 
demised claims for the damage in their apartments in the event wider common parts claims 
havent been met. When determining whether a demised claim exceeds the leaseholders 
excess, costings should include repairing the defects that would otherwise prevent an 
effective and lasting repair to the apartment in question. 
SoL was aware of the building-wide water ingress issues within the ten-year period of cover, 
even if all the leaseholders didnt log individual claims. So, Im not persuaded SoL could 
fairly argue demised claims hadnt been made in time.
Im mindful the policy contains a policy condition that states: The maximum the Underwriter 
will pay for any claim relating to Common Parts will be the amount that the Policyholder has 
a legal liability to contribute towards the cost of repairs, rectification or rebuilding works. 
However, I wouldnt consider it fair and reasonable for SoL to rely on that policy condition for 
a demised claim, irrespective of whether a defect in the common parts needs to be repaired 
to provide an effective and lasting repair for the demised damage. I say that because, if, for a demised claim, SoL was to rely on such a policy condition to only 
contribute towards the claiming leaseholders share of the defect repair costs, it wouldnt be 
adequately indemnifying the leaseholder in respect of the insured damage (i.e. the demised 
damage). In other words, if the leaseholder isnt provided with sufficient funds to repair the 
defect causing the demised damage, the damage would likely return.
Is SoLs position of 18 common parts claims reasonable?
SoL considers there to be 18 separate common parts claims on the basis theres 18 causes, 
or potential causes, of loss.
The policy terms explain an excess applies to each valid claim, and that a separate excess 
applies to each separately identifiable cause of damage. So, in other words, each 
separate cause of damage is considered to be a separate claim. 
Therefore, to determine whether the damage should be treated as 18 claims, it needs to be 
decided whats meant by each separately identifiable cause. Importantly, the policy terms 
dont define cause.
The property management company and its appointed agents have referred to a recent legal 
case: Zagora Management Limited & Others v Zurich Insurance Plc, Zurich Building Control 
Services Limited, East West Insurance Company Limited [2019] EWHC 140 (TCC).
Zagora was about a Zurich Insurance Plc building warranty policy, similar to the SoL policy 
that Im considering here. Part of the judgement was about the excess for common parts 
claims, in relation to Zurichs policy terms.
SoL doesnt consider the Zagora judgement applies to the complaint Im considering. But 
whilst Zagora involved a different insurer and a different policy, in my view, the policies 
provide cover on identical terms.
Zurichs policy covered major physical damage and it defined this as: "A material difference 
in the physical condition of a load bearing element of the new home. SoLs policy covers 
major damage, and it defines this as: Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of 
the Housing Unit. The housing unit definition is simply the various parts of the building. 
Although Zurichs terms refer to an element, and SoLs terms refer to a portion, in the 
context of the cover, I dont consider element and portion to have wholly different 
meanings.
Furthermore, under the Zurich policy, an excess applied to "each and every item of claim". 
I also dont consider that term to be wholly different from the each separately identifiable 
cause excess term in SoLs policy. If interpreted strictly, and in the favour of the insurer, 
both of those excess terms achieve the same outcome.
Therefore, I find the principles of the Zagora judgment ought reasonably to apply to the 
circumstances of the complaint Im considering here.
The Zurich policy didnt contain a definition for claim or item of claim. Zurich argued each 
separate item on the repair schedule was a separate item of claim for which a separate 
excess applies. To summarise, the judge concluded:
-The question of what is meant by each item of claim, should be answered by 
focusing on the cover given.-Under the Zurich policy, for major physical damage to the common parts, theres a 
separate item of claim for each element of the building requiring repair due to a 
defect.
-Where a continuous element (such as the roof or the external walls) is affected in 
different areas by the same defect, this is one item of claim; and where physically 
separate elements are affected by the same defect, this is also one item of claim.
Under the SoL policy, cover is given for damage to any portion of the building. So, I consider 
a reasonable interpretation to be that theres a separate claim for each damaged portion. In 
my view, the damage can reasonably be described as rainwater ingress, and the defect a 
lack of weathertightness. Theres a single type of damage being claimed, which has been 
caused by a single type of defect, albeit in a few portions of the building. 
It follows from the Zagora judgment, and as a matter of logic, that a continuous part of the 
building (such as the cladding), or the parts of the building that are the same but separate 
(such as roofs on different levels), can reasonably be considered recognised portions. 
It also follows from the Zagora judgment that, multiple issues within a recognised portion of a 
building, cant reasonably be considered as separately identifiable causes of damage, if they 
are all contributing to the same type of damage in question.
Furthermore, irrespective of the Zagora judgement, I dont consider SoLs application of its 
policy terms to be reasonable. The main purpose of the policy is to protect the homebuyer 
against significant repair costs due to construction issues. As such, it cant reasonably be 
the intention of the policy to avoid cover (by applying multiple excesses) simply because 
there are several construction issues in a portion of the building causing a single type of 
damage.
SoL may well point towards its excess policy terms, in respect of an excess applying to each 
separately identifiable cause of damage. But in my view, it would be a wholly unreasonable 
interpretation of the overall policy terms to consider the individual materials or components 
making up a recognised portion, to be separately identifiable items or causes of damage. 
Because to do so, nullifies the value of the policy at a time when its most needed by the 
policyholders, and at a time when they ought reasonably to be able to rely on it.
The Zagora judgement referred to adopting a sensible rather than an absurd interpretation, 
when answering the question of how many claims. In my view, the conclusion there are 18 
separate causes of damage, to put right a single type of damage in a few portions of the 
building, can only reasonably be considered absurd, in the context of the cover being 
provided.
So, having considered the Zagora judgement, SoLs policy terms, and whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I consider the following to be the 
appropriate approach:
-Where there are multiple defects to a continuous portion of the building, or multiple 
defects to a separated portion of the building, which are contributing to the single 
type of damage (rainwater ingress), then those defects ought reasonably to be 
grouped into claims by portion.
-For instance, if there are multiple issues with the cladding that are contributing to the 
rainwater ingress, the portion of the building thats defective is the cladding. In this 
scenario, Im satisfied it would be appropriate to consider the cladding to be one 
separately identifiable cause of damage (i.e. one head of loss).Ill now go on to consider what that approach means for this complaint, in respect of the 18 
defects, or potential defects, identified by SoL.
What number of common parts claims ought reasonably to apply?
SoL arranged for an engineer, A, to report on the damage. Five reports were produced. One 
for each of the four apartments that had made the initial claims, and one for the communal 
areas. 
SoLs agents identified 18 causes, or potential causes, of loss. Below is a table summarising 
those 18 causes. 
No. Description (as per the loss adjusters report) Cause of loss
1 Defective cladding. Cement fibre board cladding
2 Defective metal facia. Main roof
3 Missing or defective weather seals to cladding. Cement fibre board cladding
4 Aluminium upstands behind cladding not sealed. Cement fibre board cladding
5 Window/door frames not sealed to cladding. Cement fibre board cladding
6 Vents, flues not sealed to cladding or missing covers. Cement fibre board cladding
7 Vent pipe not effectively sealed. Main roof
8 Fixing bolts to perimeter capping not sealed. Main roof
9 The perimeter sheets lack seals at the joints. Main roof
10 No DPC under coping stones. Perimeter parapet wall
11 Failed coping joints. Perimeter parapet wall
12 No waterproofing of metal railing stanchions. Perimeter parapet wall
13 Open joints in brickwork. Perimeter parapet wall
14 No weep holes and potentially no cavity trays. Perimeter parapet wall
15 Open joints and defective cladding. Timber board cladding
16 Windows inadequately sealed to cladding. Timber board cladding
17 Possible defects to and/or around flat felt roof. Lower roof
18 Vents not sealed to cladding or missing covers. Timber board cladding
Ill summarise my understanding of those five reports:
-There are multiple defects with the cement board cladding, fixings, and detailing. The 
defects have caused damage to the cladding, and the water damage in apartment 
21. The defects are also the likely cause of the water damage in apartment 14. 
(Defects 1, 3, 4, 5, 6).
-The roof edge detail is formed by folded metal panels, which are fixed to the cement 
board cladding. They are poorly fitted. The joints, which arent sealed, are likely to 
allow water to ingress behind the metal panels; theres significant staining on the 
cement board cladding where the metal panels join; and the fixings could have 
damaged the cement boards. The fixings along the roof edge are also without 
washers. (Defects 2, 8, 9).
-One of the roof vents isnt sealed effectively. This is directly above water staining in 
apartment 21. (Defect 7).-There are multiple defects to the parapet walls. Whilst theres no evidence damage is 
currently being caused by those defects, they could be a source of water ingress, the 
situation will only worsen, and they might be contributing to unseen damage. Its also 
likely that the defects to one of the parapet walls is the cause of the water damage in 
apartment 14. Theres also the beginning of corrosion to steelwork elements which 
dont appear to have been adequately protected, and minor movement of some 
coping stones has taken place. (Defects 10, 11, 12, 13, 14).
-All the above defects are likely contributing to the damage seen and unseen. A 
believes damage will have occurred to the underlying structure.
-The timber cladding, breather membrane, seals, drips detail, cavity tray etc. couldnt 
be fully assessed due to access issues. Only a visible inspection took place. Any of 
those items could be defective and contributing to the damage in apartment 14 and 
the northern communal stairwell. (Defects 15, 16, 18).
-In the northern stairwell, theres damage below the low-level flat roof. But access 
would be required for an inspection. (Defect 17).
-The perimeter walls to the communal terrace on the top floor have had their cement 
boards overclad with uPVC-type cladding. The over-cladding appears to have left in 
place all the original features, the integrity of which has been called into question in 
the reports for apartments 19 and 21. The over-cladding has poor sealing details, 
and the defective folded metal panel roof trims have been repeated. Jubilee clips 
around a downpipe havent been installed correctly. Those issues are possibly 
connected to the water staining in the southern communal stairwell.
-The over-cladding is an alteration and consideration should be given to the policy 
exclusion relating to alterations.
-Some maintenance needs to be carried out to ensure the outlets on the fourth-floor 
terraces arent blocked, so theres the free passage of water.
So, based on the descriptions given by SoLs agents within its reports and correspondence, 
and keeping in mind what Ive said above about grouping claims by portion, I consider the 
common parts claims ought reasonably to be divided in to three claims:
-Claim 1: cement board and timber board cladding (defects 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 15, 16, 18).
-Claim 2: main and lower roofs (defects 2, 7, 8, 9, 17).
-Claim 3: perimeter parapet walls (defects 10, 11,12 ,13, 14).
The cement fibre and timber boards are different types of cladding, in different areas of the 
building. However, its my understanding the boards serve the same purpose. Equally, the 
description of the damage and defects are identical, even if some of the remedies may be 
different. So, in the circumstances, Im persuaded all the cladding, and the associated 
weatherproof detailing, ought reasonably to be considered one portion of the building. 
Likewise, overall, I consider it reasonable to treat the main roof and the smaller flat felt roof 
as one portion. Both roofs serve the same purpose and I havent seen anything that 
persuades me they cant reasonably be considered a single portion of the building.I also understand from the leaseholders submissions, there are further issues with the roof 
areas above the third-floor apartments (i.e. the fourth-floor terraces), which are contributing 
to the water ingress in some of the third-floor apartments. If that water ingress is due to a 
defect rather than a maintenance issue, it follows the repairs should form part of claim 2, 
given the terraces form part of the third-floor roofs.
However, I note Cs report confirmed apartment 19s decking was lifted in 2018, and whilst 
the roof coverings appeared sound, there was a build-up of leaves. The outlet was fully 
blocked with leaf matter, and the hopper and downpipes from the outlet also appeared 
blocked. Cs report also pointed towards a lack of maintenance to the decking on the 
communal roof area. Apartment 19 and the communal terrace are on the fourth floor.
Ultimately, it will be for the property management company to demonstrate to SoL that the 
water ingress via the terraces above the third-floor apartments is mainly due to a defect, 
rather than a lack of maintenance. If there are defects causing damage, SoL cant 
reasonably use the lack maintenance as a reason to avoid covering the repairs.
In respect of the over-cladding alteration, whilst the policy excludes any damage arising from 
alterations, I understand from As reports that the original defects and damage underneath 
the uPVC cladding are the main problem. In other words, the associated water damage is 
mainly due to the original issues. Therefore, I dont consider SoL can reasonably avoid 
liability for the defective and damaged cement board cladding, or the resulting water 
damage, simply because of the over-cladding, even if it has been poorly executed.
Apart from the uPVC over-cladding, SoL hasnt indicated that the issues identified within As 
reports arent covered. Therefore, I consider SoL to have accepted all those issues are 
covered by the policy, and the necessary repairs should form part of the three claims. 
How should the leaseholders claims be moved forward?
For each of the three common parts claims, the leaseholders can only claim for their share 
of the repair costs, and only for the amount that exceeds their excess. To determine each 
leaseholders share of responsibility for the common parts, SoL will need to consider the 
lease agreement, and understand whether the ground floor commercial unit also has a 
responsibility for the common parts of the building.
I understand from the submissions that the applicable excess for each of the leaseholders is 
£1,234.61. If so, and if responsibility for the common parts is shared equally among those 21 
residential units, for each of the three claims to succeed, their value would need to exceed 
the collective excess of £25,926.81, i.e. 21 x £1,234.61. 
If SoLs repair schedule is taken as a starting point: claim 1 has a value of £42,228, claim 2 
has a value of £14,220, and claim 3 has a value of £18,000. Based on responsibility for the 
common parts being equally shared between the 21 residential units, only claim 1 exceeds 
the collective excess of £25,926.81.
The managing agents estimated repair costs from H, and D, differ significantly from SoLs 
estimated repair costs. On the one hand, the managing agents estimates dont offer much 
detail, and they may include work thats either maintenance related or not necessary in the 
first instance. On the other hand, SoLs estimated repair costs may not reflect all the work 
required to remedy the damage thats covered.
The fair way forward, in my view, is for SoL to arrange a competitive tender process for the 
three claims, to determine what the reasonable cost of the remaining repairs are. 
Contractors nominated by both parties ought to be invited to take part.I say remaining, because, as I understand it, in January 2021, the managing agent was to 
undertake some repairs to the roof/terrace areas above the third floor, due to the ongoing 
water ingress into some of the third floor apartments. Its also my understanding that the 
managing agent was to charge the leaseholders for those repairs. Providing the repairs 
werent maintenance related, they should form part of claim 2s overall value. 
If claim 2 exceeds its collective excess, and if the repairs so far completed by the managing 
agent to the roof/terrace areas arent maintenance related, then the sums already paid by 
the leaseholders for those repairs should go towards their excess for claim 2. SoL would 
need to reimburse each leaseholder any amount they had paid above their excess, plus 
8% simple interest per annum from the date they paid the related charges to the date of 
settlement.
A explained in its reports that further investigations are needed to understand the full extent 
of the required repairs to the timber cladding (defects 15, 16, and 18) and the lower roof 
(defect 17). So, SoL will need to arrange for that to happen before the tender.
Once the repair costs are known for each of the three common parts claims (i.e. after the 
competitive tender), SoL can determine whether they succeed, bearing in mind each 
leaseholders share of the costs and their excess.
For any successful common parts claims, SoL will need to cover the associated demised 
damage. So, for example, if damaged cladding has caused some internal damage to an 
apartment, the internal damage should by covered; or, if defective cladding has caused 
damage to the underlying structure (hence the common parts claim), which in turn has 
resulted in some internal damage to an apartment, both the structural and demised 
damage should be covered.
If claims 2 or 3 dont exceed their collective excess, then SoL will need to consider whether 
some of those repairs need to be done as part of claim 1, either to ensure an effective and 
lasting repair for the damage being covered under claim 1, or because claim 2 or claim 3 
items are needed to facilitate the claim 1 repairs. For example, the repairs to the cement 
board cladding will likely impact the metal facia that folds over from the roof.
Furthermore, defects within claims 2 and 3 are thought to be causing damage to apartments. 
So, if claims 2 or 3 fail due to not meeting their collective excess, SoL will need to consider 
whether any of the remaining internal damage in the apartments, after claim 1, should be 
dealt with as demised claims. As noted above, the value of those demised claims would 
need to include the cost of putting right the defects causing the damage in question.
Finally, I note SoL has declined to share As reports with the property management company 
and its managing agent. However, those parties will need sight of As findings to understand 
what damage and defects the tender is to cover. If SoL remains of the opinion that it cant 
share the reports in their entirety, or appropriately redacted versions, then it will need to 
provide the findings and recommendations in another format.
Should SoL cover the property management companys report costs?
In 2014, the managing agent at that time commissioned a report by a surveyor, who Ill refer 
to as S. To summarise, S recommended the cladding be replaced and estimated costs to 
be £48,000. Based on the submissions, its not clear what happened following Ss report. 
However, Ive seen claims were raised in 2017.The subsequent managing agents also commissioned reports by C, H, and D (with H, and D, 
being instructed by B). I acknowledge Cs report was commissioned due to SoLs request for 
a report, and Hs report and Ds report were both commissioned due to SoLs response to 
the claims. However, its for the insured parties to support their claims, and Ive not seen 
anything that would lead me to conclude SoL should cover those report costs.
C hadnt estimated repair costs, so it follows that a further report was required to support the 
claim. Hs estimated repair costs were significantly higher than those estimated by SoL and 
S, and Hs costings were based on a quick estimate without any detail. Therefore, I dont 
find it unreasonable that SoL asked for supporting documentation, which led to Ds report.
In respect of B, I understand it was appointed to help with the claims and to challenge SoLs 
position. Given the complexity of the claims and the implications for the leaseholders, I can 
understand why assistance was sought by the property management company. However, 
where the insured chooses to appoint a third party to represent them in their claim, we 
generally dont expect the insurer to cover those costs. 
In my view, the property management company could have commissioned its own survey 
with repair costings to challenge SoLs estimate, without the assistance of B. Equally, a 
complaint could have been brought to our service for free, without Bs involvement. Its 
uncommon for us to make awards for professional representation, and Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me I should reasonably do so here.
What compensation should be paid?
As I understand it, the claims were formerly declined in January 2020, followings As reports 
and the conclusion there were 18 common parts claims each attracting 21 excesses. As 
explained, I dont consider SoLs approach to be fair and reasonable, and due to SoLs 
approach, the claim has been delayed for two and half years since January 2020.
I havent seen SoL caused unreasonable delays before January 2020. Whilst I disagree with 
the outcome SoL reached, I dont consider its requests for information, or the investigations 
it undertook, to have been unreasonable. Much of the delay between when the claims were 
made in 2017 and when they were declined in January 2020, was due to SoL waiting on 
information from the property management company or its managing agents.
I accept SoLs claim decision and the delays since January 2020 have had an impact on all 
the leaseholders. I dont doubt the uncertainty about whether their claims will succeed has 
caused a degree of upset. Also, all the leaseholders will likely have suffered some impact 
due to the damage in the communal areas. 
I also accept some of the leaseholders have been living with damage in their apartments 
since January 2020. However, so far, none of them have made submissions about the 
damage in their apartments or the impact on them.
Furthermore, the photos in the various reports dont show that the damage in the apartments 
was particularly significant. Whilst Mr T provided us with more recent photos and a video in 
January 2021, its not clear what apartments or communal areas they are in relation to.
In view of the above, Im intending to award each leaseholder £500 compensation for the 
delay and general impact since January 2020. However, if any of the leaseholders dont 
consider £500 to be fair compensation for the impact the situation has had on them 
personally, they are free to explain why in response to my provisional decision and 
I will consider their comments before making my final decision. If any of the leaseholders wish to make submissions in relation to the compensation, they 
should provide information about their circumstances, the damage thats been in their 
apartment since January 2020, and photos of the damage where possible.
SoL disagreed with my provisional decision. It made the following points:
- SoLs policy and Zurichs policy cannot be treated as being equivalent. The definition 
of major physical damage in Zurichs policy consists of the defect itself, whereas the 
definition of major damage in SoLs policy only consists of the damage caused by 
the defect. So, the element referred to in Zurichs policy is a defective part of the 
structure, and the portion referred to in SoLs policy is a damaged part of the 
building. 
- Similarly, in Zagora, the Zurich term "each and every item of claim" was interpreted 
as the cost of repair for each element of the building caused by a failure to comply 
with Zurichs requirements. So, an item of claim consisted of the loss and damage 
suffered as a consequence. This is different to SoLs excess clause, where a 
separate excess applies to each cause of loss or damage.
-Whilst cause isnt defined in SoLs policy, its clear via the definition of major 
damage, that the word cause means a defect in the design, workmanship, 
materials or components of the Structure. 
-The provisional decision makes a finding that because cover under SoLs policy is 
given for damage to any portion of the building, theres a separate claim for each 
damaged portion. However, the relevant question for SoLs policy is how many 
causes there are, not how many claims there are.
- The finding that a continuous part of the building, or parts of the building that are the 
same but separate, can reasonably be considered as recognised portions, doesnt 
assist in determining how the excess provision in SoLs policy is to be applied. The 
portion referred to isnt the cause of damage, rather it is an area of the building 
which has been damaged.
- The fundamental question posed by the excess clause is whether the damage has 
one or more causes. This can only be determined by referring to the opinion of the 
technical experts, which is contained within As reports. 
- In Zagora, the Court wasnt asking itself whether there were one or more causes of 
the damage. It was asking how many claims were being made, in the context of the 
Zurich cover and excess provision. Therefore, SoL disagrees with the provisional 
finding that it follows from the judgment that, multiple issues within a recognised 
portion of a building, cant reasonably be considered as separately identifiable 
causes of damage, if they are all contributing to the same type of damage in 
question.
- SoL noted the provisional decision effectively seeks to disapply the excess provision 
altogether by finding that if claims 2 and 3 dont exceed the applicable excess, then 
those repairs should be covered as part of claim 1. 
- The practical reality underlying SoLs approach is that the acceptance of the risk, and 
the premium paid, are based on the excess applying to each separately identifiable 
cause of loss or damage. To deny SoL the right to apply terms upon which the 
premium has been calculated is unfair and inequitable. - The provisional finding that a demised claim should be deemed to have been made 
in time, whether in fact it was or not, would have the effect of abrogating SoLs 
entitlement to decline damage which wasnt discovered and notified during the 
policyholders period of insurance. 
Mr T responded to my provisional decision on behalf of the leaseholders. Mr T also enclosed 
a response from another leaseholder, who Ill refer to as Mr F. The leaseholders accepted 
my provisional decision, but they asked me to reconsider Bs costs and the level of 
compensation.
Mr T made the following points:
- This has been a highly distressing time for the leaseholders. They have had to live 
with the defective accommodation for many years and the anxiety of having to pay 
for the repairs. The water ingress has also caused electrical faults, which have 
required the fire brigade to attend on more than one occasion. 
- Many of the leaseholders have had their lives put on hold as they have been unable 
to sell their apartments. They have had to repeatedly redecorate and have been 
living in very damp conditions.
- One of the apartments is suffering from mould and damp, which has aggravated the 
pre-existing health condition of the occupant.
- Mr T explained that in relation to his apartment, the stress has led to many sleepless 
nights and given him significant anxiety. He noted the situation was likely much 
worse for those living with leaks every time it rained.
- Mr T also noted that as a director of the property management company, hes had to 
volunteer many hours of his personal time trying to resolve the leaks in the building. 
- Some of the leaseholders will have to be moved out for the work to their apartments 
as it will require the removal of damp plasterboard ceilings and walls.
- At the very least, the leaseholders would expect a higher level of compensation for 
those who have lived with terrible water ingress and damage to their properties for 
several years.
- It was only after the leaseholders engaged B that they knew they could challenge 
SoLs approach. B helped refer the complaint to our service and brought in expert 
surveyors to provide evidence. 
Mr F made the following points:
- The owners of apartments 13, 14, 16 and 18 have all been affected due to their living 
conditions. The conditions have got worse over the years due to SoLs uncooperative 
approach, and when a resolution eventually comes, the damage will be so severe 
that residents will need to move out for the repairs. They will also be spending yet 
another autumn and winter in poor living conditions, and due to the damage, 
retaining heat is impossible. 
- Mr F reported the water ingress in his bedroom in December 2014, to the buildings 
maintenance company. The situation since then has taken its toll on his mental 
health.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Further points from SoL
Before I address SoLs response to my provisional decision, I remind SoL of the following
longstanding industry rules  the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS):
-A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its customer  ICOBS 2.5.-1R
-A firm must not seek to exclude or restrict, or rely on any exclusion or restriction of, 
any duty or liability it may have to a customer or other policyholder unless it is 
reasonable for it to do so and the duty or liability arises other than under the 
regulatory system  ICOBS 2.5.1R(1)
-An insurer must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim 
and appropriate information on its progress  ICOBS 8.1.1R(2)
-A firm must not unreasonably reject a claim  ICOBS 8.1.1R(3)
-For contracts entered into or variations agreed before 1 August 2017, a rejection of 
a consumer policyholder's claim is unreasonable, except where there is evidence of 
fraud, if it is: for breach of warranty or condition unless the circumstances of the 
claim are connected to the breach  ICOBS 8.1.2R(3)
SoL points towards its policy being fundamentally different to the Zurich policy that was the 
subject of the Zagora judgment. However, whilst the policy terms are different, there are 
obvious similarities, and in the context of the cover being provided, they are, in my view, 
comparable. But, importantly, as I noted in my provisional decision, irrespective of the 
Zagora judgement, I dont consider SoLs application of its policy terms to be fair and 
reasonable.
I agree with SoL that the relevant question here is the number of causes. So, the issue to 
be decided is the interpretation of the term cause. 
The policy doesnt define cause and SoLs view is that the policy taken overall means each 
individual defect is a cause. However, it remains my view that in the circumstances of this 
case, it would be a wholly unreasonable application of the term cause, to consider the 
individual materials or components making up a recognised portion, to be separately 
identifiable items or causes of a single type of damage. Its clear that such a broad 
interpretation doesnt lead to a fair and reasonable outcome.
In the absence of a clear policy definition of cause, and in the overall context of the cover 
being provided, I dont consider SoLs approach in this case to be fair and reasonable, or 
that its acted with the best interests of its customers. But rather, SoL has, in my view, 
sought to unfairly restrict its liability for damage thats covered by an unreasonable 
application of the excess clause.The basis on which the premiums are calculated for the builders who take out the cover, is 
not a concern for the eventual homeowners/policyholders. SoL is well aware the cover is 
being passed to homeowners to protect them against the risk of significant costs due to 
construction defects, and its obligated to apply its policy terms, and treat its customers, 
fairly.
SoLs approach in this case effectively relieves it of its liability for the very circumstances the 
policy is intended to cover. Im not satisfied that such an approach is fair, where theres 
defects causing major damage, potentially costing hundreds of thousands of pounds to 
repair.
So, having considered the arguments presented, I remain persuaded that the damage being 
claimed is rainwater ingress, and the causes can reasonably be split into three: defective 
cladding, defective roofs, and defective parapet walls.
SoL has argued my provisional decision seeks to disapply the excess provision altogether in 
respect of some claim 2 and claim 3 repairs potentially falling under claim 1. However, SoL 
is well aware of our approach to providing an effective and lasting repair to damage thats 
covered, which may also mean completing uninsured work to facilitate the insured work. 
In respect of some of the potential demised claims not being made in time, my point here is, 
SoL needs to treat its policyholders fairly. SoL hasnt disputed it was aware of the building-
wide water ingress issues before any of the policyholders ten-year cover periods expired. 
In my view, in 2017, SoL could have engaged with all the leaseholders to understand if 
more apartments were affected by the common parts defects, as per its obligation to 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim.
Im also mindful of SoLs duty not to unreasonably reject a claim. I acknowledge its a policy 
condition that claims must be discovered and notified before the policyholders cover ends. 
But as per ICOBS, a rejection of a consumer policyholders claim for breach of condition is 
unreasonable unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. In this 
case, the common parts and demised issues are clearly linked, and I havent seen any 
persuasive information to show how, if at all, SoL is prejudiced by the late reporting of 
demised damage. 
So, overall, I find it fair and reasonable to consider all the demised damage to have been 
reported in time. 
Further points from the leaseholders
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T and the other leaseholders, but I havent been told anything that 
changes my provisional findings in relation to their report costs and the cost of professional 
representation. Theres nothing further I can add to what I said in my provisional findings.
Im also not increasing the £500 compensation award. Whilst I accept the situation has likely 
been upsetting for the leaseholders, particularly for those with damage in their apartments, 
the submissions dont detail the extent of the internal damage, and no further photos have 
been provided. Because no persuasive evidence has been provided about the impact on 
individual leaseholders, I cant reasonably increase the compensation award for some of 
them.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Society of Lloyd's should:
Part 1:
A.In the first instance, deal with all the damage observed in As five reports under three 
common parts claims: cladding (claim 1), roofs (claim 2), and parapet walls (claim 3).
B.Complete the outstanding investigations to the timber cladding and flat roof, as per 
As reports.
C.Consider whether the water ingress via the fourth-floor terraces has been caused by 
a defect, and if so, include the associated repairs within claim 2.
D.Share As findings and recommendations from its five reports, and the findings and 
recommendations from any further investigations, with the property management 
company.
E.Arrange a competitive tender to determine the value of the remaining repairs, with 
contractors nominated by both parties to be invited to take part.
F.Settle any of the three common parts claims that exceed their collective excess, 
based on the tender and any defect related repairs so far completed. 
Part 2:
If common parts claim 2 exceeds its collective excess and the fourth-floor terrace repairs so 
far completed are defect related:
G.Deduct the amount so far paid by the leaseholders for the fourth-floor terrace repairs 
from their claim 2 excess, and if the amount paid exceeds their excess, refund the 
surplus. 
H.Pay 8% simple interesti per annum on any amounts that are refunded under G, from 
the date the leaseholders paid the related charges for those repairs, to the date of 
settlement.
Part 3:
If common parts claim 2 or common parts claim 3 dont exceed their collective excess:
I.Consider whether some of those repairs need to be covered under the common parts 
claims that have exceeded their collective excess, to either achieve an effective and 
lasting repair or to facilitate the repairs, for those successful claims. 
J.Consider demised claims for the remaining internal damage in the apartments (the 
value of the demised claims should include the cost of providing an effective and 
lasting repair, which may mean putting right defects in the common parts).
Part 4:
K.Pay each of the 21 leaseholders £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused since the claim was declined in January 2020.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms C, 
and the other leaseholders with the same complaint at our service, to accept or reject my 
decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
i If SoL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest 
paid, it should tell the recipient how much its taken off. If requested, SoL should also give them a 
certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.