DRN-2710120
The complaint
Mr M  on behalf of C Ltd  complains that Lift-Financial Ltd (Lift Financial) mis-sold him a 
directors and officers (D&O) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a D&O policy for his businesses (including C Ltd) in June 2016 to cover 
himself and his senior team against financial risk should a claim be made against the 
business. Mr M and his fellow officers had a meeting with Lift Financial where he says he 
stressed the importance of being covered against any claims made against the business, as 
he didnt want his personal assets to be at risk. Mr M says he wanted the best level of cover 
available and was told by Lift Financial that the policy theyd sourced was the gold 
standard. The policy was eventually taken out and documentation issued on 23 September 
2016.
In 2019, a claim was made against C Ltd by a previous shareholder who was claiming a 
proportion of the companys revenue. Mr M made a claim under his D&O policy for legal 
assistance in defending the claim, which was declined by the insurer as they said it was 
excluded given that the individual claiming against the company was listed as a shareholder 
on Companies House.
Mr M said he wasnt made aware of the shareholder exclusion at the time the policy was 
sold, as it was not featured in the summary of key exclusions. He says he wouldve paid an 
extra premium to provide cover for such circumstances if he had been made aware of it. 
However, Lift Financial said that C Ltd had been given all the relevant policy documentation 
to enable him to make an informed choice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold 
given that Lift Financial had given the most comprehensive policy available at the time, and 
because the shareholder exclusion was set out within the policy documentation. Mr M 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Lift Financial has explained that the policy was sold on an advised basis, which means they 
had to ensure it was suitable for needs of the company and its directors and officers. They 
also had to provide information about the policy in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I understand that in his meeting with Lift Financial, Mr M requested the maximum level of 
cover available, which is why the broker said theyd recommended the policy in question as 
they said this was the most comprehensive level of cover they could source at that time. 
I appreciate that Mr M wanted to ensure his personal assets were protected against legal 
action. But there will always be limitations and exceptions within every insurance policy. It 
would be considerably rare to find a D&O policy that would cover every conceivable 
eventuality. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M specifically requested a 
policy that would cover him against legal action being brought by other major shareholders 
of the company. So, given that Lift Financial offered a policy that did offer the maximum level 
of cover they could offer at the time, I do not think it was an unsuitable recommendation for 
them to make.
However, as outlined above, Lift Financial still had to ensure that the information it provided 
was clear, fair and not misleading, including highlighting any significant or unusual limitations 
of cover (which can take into account the knowledge and type of customer they are dealing 
with  see ICOBS 6.1.7A).
The policy terms and conditions state on page 10 of the policy document:
The insurer shall not be liable to make any payment under Insurance Cover A, B and C 
or any Extension applicable to these Coverswhich is brought by or on behalf of 
whether directly or derivatively any individual or entity that owns or controls (which 
beneficially, directly or indirectly) 15% or more of the issued and outstanding voting 
share capital of the company.  
 
This exclusion is more commonly known as a major shareholder exclusion and is a fairly 
standard for an insurer to include when underwriting D&O insurance policies. The rationale 
behind such exclusions is to limit coverage for individuals that have the most influence on 
decisions that are being made on behalf of the company (and to encourage them to make 
the right ones). Its also in place to avoid the situation whereby major shareholders could 
make improper decisions on behalf of the company for which they will then have insurance 
coverage for their actions, of which they are the direct beneficiary. 
I dont consider the major shareholder exclusion to be an unusual limitation for a D&O policy. 
And neither do I consider that it serves to render the policy inferior as Mr M suggests. It still 
provides cover for claims made against directors and officers of the company, but not for 
directors, officers or shareholders of the same company to sue each other. 
Lift Financial has said that they are not aware of a policy that would cover such an 
eventuality, and Mr M hasnt presented any other policy from the same time that would have 
provided cover for shareholder claims either. Its not practical for a broker to be expected to 
highlight every single exclusion within a policy, otherwise any significant or onerous 
limitations would risk being made less prominent. So, I think it was enough for them to 
include the major shareholder exclusion within the policy terms and conditions, and to point 
Mr M towards where to find it. And as a commercial customer, he wouldve been expected to 
read the policy documentation. Indeed, the policy summary states 
For a full list of exclusions, please see policy wording.
The policy documentation also sets out:
Please take the time to read through your policy documentation to ensure the policy 
is suited to your needs and that the sums insured are adequate.
So Im satisfied that Lift Financial highlighted the importance of reading the policy 
documentation and pointed towards where Mr M could find a full list of exclusions (including the major shareholder exclusion). Even if this exclusion could be described as a significant 
limitation, Im not persuaded it wouldve made any difference if it had been highlighted to 
Mr M in the policy summary, because Ive not been presented with any evidence to suggest 
he couldve obtained a policy without this exclusion at the time, given that it is fairly standard 
across most D&O policies on the open market. 
So Im not persuaded the policy has been mis-sold in these circumstances. I consider it was 
a suitable recommendation based on the requirements Mr M set out, and I consider enough 
information was provided for him to make an informed choice about whether the cover was 
right for his businesses. 
I appreciate that Mr M has since forwarded further communication he has had with Lift 
Financial about another claim they said would not be covered.  But if he is unhappy with their 
decision in this regard, he will need to raise a separate complaint about this with the broker 
in the first instance. If he remains unhappy with their final response, it will then be something 
this service can consider further, but I cannot comment on such matters within this final 
decision.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Im not persuaded that Lift 
Financial has done anything wrong here, so I will not be directing them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M  on behalf 
of C Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman