DRN-3156843
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
regarding the processing of her claims for vet bills. She wants Red Sands to communicate 
more clearly and to meet its advertised timeframes for processing claims. 
 
What happened
Since 2016, Mrs H has insured her pet dog via Red Sands. 
In April 2021, Mrs Hs dog needed veterinary care and Mrs H submitted a claim under her 
insurance. She completed the claim on 6 April 2021 and her vet completed the required 
information on 11 April 2021.
The claim then remained with Red Sands until 29 April 2021 when it was accepted, and a 
payment was made to Mrs H. 
Mrs H submitted a further claim on 19 April 2021, and this was not logged on her account 
with Red Sands until 27 April 2021. Red Sands made a partial settlement of this claim on 9 
May 2021. 
Mrs H has submitted further claims for complementary therapies and these have been 
declined by Red Sands, pending further information being provided. 
Mrs H complained to Red Sands. She felt that Red Sands was not abiding by its terms and 
conditions and that this added to her stress whilst caring for her pet. 
Red Sands sent its final response letter to her in May 2021. It accepted that there had been 
some delays in the handling of her claims and apologised. It said that it would pass feedback 
to the relevant departments. 
Mrs H was not happy with this response and contacted us. Subsequently, Red Sands has 
offered Mrs H £20 compensation for her time and distress. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. They considered that no further action 
was required from Red Sands, following their apology. 
Mrs H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this was a difficult and stressful time for Mrs H. Dealing with the sickness 
and care of a beloved pet is of course difficult and distressing. I understand that she feels 
that the delays in resolving her claims added to this stressful time. 
She has indicated that she wants the ombudsman service to ensure that Red Sands keep to 
their timescale promises in future for her or for other customers. 
I should be clear that that is not our role. We are not the regulator of financial businesses 
and we cannot interfere with the future running of businesses, or the way they advertise. 
These functions lie with other organisations, including the Financial Conduct Authority and 
the Advertising Standards Authority. 
Our role is to look at the way that businesses treat individual consumers and whether this 
has been fair and reasonable. Where a business has not treated a consumer fairly, we can 
direct the business to make amends. 
When looking at how a business acts, we look at the information provided to the consumer, 
the complexity of the situation, the wider context, including industry standards, and whether 
broadly the behaviour is reasonable. Where businesses get things wrong, we expect them to 
acknowledge this and if appropriate offer an apology or compensation. 
In this situation, I accept that Red Sands has set out quick turn around timescales that it will 
meet when processing claims. I appreciate that Red Sands has missed these timescales 
when dealing with Mrs Hs claims. 
I do not, however, think that the times taken to process claims are unreasonably long, or that 
Mrs H has been treated unfairly by Red Sands when it has handled the claims. Mrs Hs 
successful claims have been processed within around 3 weeks on each occasion, and the 
information provided explaining the decisions has been clear. 
I understand that Mrs H does not think that the processing times are reasonable when 
considered against the assurances Red Sands makes about processing times and I 
appreciate this. She has explained that she had to pay bills out of pocket and then be 
reimbursed and that this caused her inconvenience, along with chasing progress of her 
claims. I understand that this was stressful but Red Sands has provided a prompt apology 
and has later offered token compensation to reflect the delays. I think that their offer is 
proportionate to the failing and to the additional inconvenience caused by the delays. Red 
Sands has also indicated that it will provide feedback to the relevant departments so that 
they can improve.
Overall, I do not think that Red Sands has delivered an unreasonable or unfair service to Mrs 
H across these claims, and I agree with my colleagues view that Red Sands has made an 
appropriate apology to Mrs H. 
I therefore do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint and do not ask Red Sands to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint and do not ask Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman