DRN-3808478
The complaint
Mr T complained that when he asked The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) for two 
mortgages to support two buy to let (BTL) properties he owns, the valuations were much 
lower than he expected. Mr T said that meant he couldnt afford to pay off his old mortgage.
What happened
Mr T said he wanted to remortgage two buy to let (BTL) properties where the previous 
mortgage term had run out. The old lender couldve extended his previous mortgage, but Mr 
T needed to change from joint borrower mortgages to mortgages in his sole name, and the 
old lender wasnt able to offer a new mortgage in his sole name. 
Mr Ts old lender suggested he might be able to get new BTL mortgages with its sister 
company, TMW. But he said that the valuation for the first of his two properties was much 
lower than he expected (and he expected the second valuation to be the same). That meant 
he wouldnt have enough money to pay off the old mortgages. Mr T complained to TMW, but 
it said there was nothing else it could do. 
Mr T wanted to complain about both the decision of his old lender, and the decision of TMW 
not to lend him the funds he needed so he could clear his old mortgages. This decision only 
deals with what TMW did. 
TMW said Mr T thought the first of the two properties was worth £160,000, but its surveyor 
only valued it at £110,000. Mr T had applied for a mortgage which had a loan to value 
(LTV) of 65%, at the most, so he could only borrow up to £71,500. 
TMW said Mr T could have changed mortgage product, but he would still not be able to get 
the amount he needed to pay off the old mortgage on this property. And whilst he could have 
appealed the valuation on the property, Mr T understood this was also unlikely to increase 
the valuation by the amount he needed. 
TMW said Mr T cancelled his application before the second valuation was completed.
Mr T felt that, because he was currently paying more than the proposed monthly payments 
would have been on the larger loan, those new loans would have been affordable. And he 
wanted TMW to give him the original mortgages he wanted of £102,000 on each property.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could only look at 
what TMW did. He couldnt comment on whether the surveyor completed the valuation 
correctly, as TMW arent responsible for the surveyors decisions. Our investigator said 
TMWs responsibility was to appoint a competent and suitably qualified surveyor, which it 
did.
Our investigator said he couldnt say that TMW had been unfair or unreasonable in reducing 
the maximum loan amount it was willing to lend, as this was its policy. And even if Mr T 
applied for a different mortgage, with a higher maximum LTV of 80%, this still would have 
meant TMW couldnt offer him the loan amount he wanted.
Our investigator said TMW wasnt saying Mr T couldnt afford the payments, it was just 
saying it couldnt offer the loan amount he wanted because of to the property value. That is a 
lending decision for TMW to make, and our service wouldnt interfere with that. 
Mr T replied, to say he was never offered any loan with 80% LTV. He said the other 
valuations hed since received elsewhere were for £125,000 and if TMW had valued the 
properties at the same level, then a mortgage with 80% LTV might have helped. 
Mr T wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
As our investigator has explained, I can only look at the actions of TMW here. So Im not 
looking at the decision of Mr Ts old lender, not to extend his mortgage. And I cannot 
consider the actions of TMWs valuer, as they dont fall within the remit of our service. 
TMW has expertise on mortgage lending. But it doesnt actually have expertise on what 
houses are worth. So, before it decides how much to lend, it asks an expert how much the 
property is worth. And what TMW has to do, is to appoint a properly accredited person to 
provide advice on that. Im satisfied TMW did that here.
TMW then based its lending decisions on the valuation it received. I know Mr T has been 
paying more each month than TMW wouldve been asking for on its new mortgage, but I 
think its reasonable for TMW to decide on a maximum LTV that its prepared to offer, and to 
stick to that.
TMW said it does have an appeal process for valuations, but Mr T didnt use that. It seems, 
from a call recording Ive listened to, as if Mr T had reached the view that the valuation was 
unlikely to change by the amount he needed. Hed already discussed this with the valuer, so 
I can understand why he thought that. 
Mr T now says that the valuations hes had since are more generous, and if TMWs surveyor 
had valued at the same level, then he couldve accepted its 80% LTV deal. It may be open to 
Mr T to apply again. But our service cant interfere with TMWs valuations, and I couldnt 
offer any sort of reassurance that the valuation would increase, if he did apply again.
I dont think that the decisions TMW has made to date, on lending to Mr T, are unfair or 
unreasonable. So, although I know that Mr T will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman