DRN-3731405
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with her escape of water 
claim on her home insurance policy. 
Mrs N has been represented on her claim and complaint, for ease of reading Ive referred to 
Mrs N throughout. 
What happened
Mrs N had an escape of water and so claimed on her policy which Fairmead accepted. 
During the drying process a second leak was discovered originating from a different location. 
A trace and access were completed for the second leak, and it was repaired. It was agreed 
the damage sustained to Mrs Ns property would be dealt with under one claim.
Fairmead offered to provide Mrs N with alternative accommodation while they repaired the 
property, but Mrs N declined and asked for a cash in lieu settlement. Fairmead agreed to this 
and made Mrs N an offer to settle her claim, which included disturbance allowance for her 
remaining in the property. Mrs N didnt think Fairmead had offered enough and appointed 
her own loss assessor. As Mrs N wasnt happy with the amount offered and how long the 
claim was taking, she complained. 
Fairmead reviewed the complaint and upheld it. They increased the amount offered to settle 
the claim and offered £150 compensation for the delays and poor claim handling. The claim 
then went on for several months more. As Mrs N wasnt happy with how the claim was being 
handled, she complained again. Fairmead reviewed the second complaint and explained 
that they had revised the amount offered and were in discussions with Mrs Ns loss 
assessor. 
As Mrs N wasnt satisfied with how Fairmead had dealt with her claim she referred the 
complaint here. She said Fairmead hadnt paid enough to settle her claim and that she didnt 
think the compensation offered was enough. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
while Fairmeads offer had increased several times, she didnt think the final amount paid 
was unreasonable. However, given the issues with the claim our investigator recommended 
Fairmead increase the compensation to £400. 
Neither Fairmead nor Mrs N accepted our investigators recommendation, so the complaint 
has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ns policy say they will either repair the damage caused by 
an escape of water claim or pay her the cash equivalent. As Fairmead have accepted the 
claim and paid the cash equivalent Ive looked at whether the amount paid is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mrs N doesnt think Fairmead have paid enough to settle her claim, but Im not 
going to tell them to pay any more. I say this because I can see Mrs N appointed a loss 
assessor and Fairmead re-assessed how much they would pay. They then made an offer to 
Mrs N which she accepted. This included the amount needed to complete the repairs and a 
disturbance allowance. So, while Mrs N has now said Fairmead needs to pay more, Ive not 
been provided with enough to say Fairmead havent paid what they should do under the 
policy, or why Mrs N now thinks the amount accepted was too low. Im therefore not 
persuaded Fairmead have acted unreasonably by paying what they have. 
Ive also considered the amount Fairmead paid in compensation for the poor claim handling, 
and Im not persuaded £150 is sufficient. I say this because this claim has taken significantly 
longer than it should have, there have also been missed appointments and multiple revised 
offers for the settlement of the claim. Its disappointing to see this and Im not satisfied 
Fairmead acted fairly or reasonably with the first offers of settlement. I say this because Mrs 
N asked for breakdowns of how the figure had been reached and these werent provided. 
The final offer amount also increased a lot from the initial offer. I therefore think the low offer 
made initially by Fairmead would have been distressing for Mrs N.  
While I can see the claim hasnt been handled well and has been ongoing for several 
months. Im also aware that Mrs N has been represented during the claim and complaint. So 
while Mrs Ns representative will have had unnecessary distress and inconvenience, Im only 
able to award for the impact on Mrs N. When considering this, Im satisfied £400 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Fairmead caused 
Mrs N.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs N a total of £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman