DRN-4215233
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about a personal loan Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) which she says was 
unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Oplo provided Mrs M with a loan for £8,500.00 in July 2022. This loan had an APR of 18.2% 
and the total amount to be repaid of £12,631.40, which included interest fees and charges of 
£4,131.40, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £210.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs M and Oplo had told us. He thought that Oplo 
hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Mrs M and so didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ms complaint.
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is that Oplo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mrs M could afford to make her repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Oplo says it approved Mrs Ms application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information 
on a credit search it carried out. In Oplos view all of the information it gathered showed that 
Mrs M could comfortably afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mrs M has said she was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs M and Oplo have said. Its clear that Oplo did obtain a 
reasonable amount of information before it decided to proceed with Mrs Ms application. And 
this information does appear to suggest that the loan repayments were affordable for Mrs M. 
I accept that Mrs Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Oplo obtained. And I know that Mrs M had 
outstanding debts. 
However, the information from the time suggests that Mrs M was going to use the majority of 
the funds from this loan to settle other debts. I can see Mrs M did provide Oplo with an 
undertaking that she would be partially settling the outstanding balance on an existing 
account. I dont know if Mrs M did go on to do this. But Oplo could only make a reasonable 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. And Im satisfied that the 
proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce the balance on the 
account in the way that Mrs M had committed to. 
Its also worth noting that as this was a first loan Oplo was providing to Mrs M, there wasnt a 
history of Mrs M obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way 
she committed to. So Oplo was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs M would be left in a 
better position after being provided with this loan.
I accept that Mrs Ms full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Oplo 
gathered or in the information she has since provided. But its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that Oplo did 
anything wrong when providing this loan to Mrs M - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Oplo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Mrs M. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this 
is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Oplo of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Mrs Ms loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman