DRN-3472966
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) and the time it took Lloyds to issue him with a 
final response letter (FRL) in respect of the same.
What happened
Mr H entered into an agreement (for the acquisition of a used car) with Lloyds in May 2018. 
The cash price of the car was £11,500 and when Mr H acquired it, it was approximately 
three years old and had approximately 10,000 miles on the odometer.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make 60 
monthly payments of £242.94  a total repayable of £14,576.40 at an APR of 10.2%.
In August 2021 the car broke down. At this point in time it was approximately six years old 
and had travelled approximately 33,000 miles. The car had been serviced, but not by a 
garage approved by the manufacturer, in May 2019 and March 2021. But no service was 
undertaken on the car in 2020.
The car was inspected by a garage (not the original supplying dealership) who concluded 
the timing chain tensioner had failed and that the car should be returned to the original 
supplying dealership for further diagnostics/inspection.
The car was returned to the supplying dealership who concluded there had been an oil pump 
failure which in turn had caused the chain tensioner to snap which in turn had caused the 
engine and turbo to fail. And the cost of repair (a new engine and turbo) would be in the 
region of £6,500.
The manufacturer ultimately agreed (with Mr H) to pay 20% of the estimated repair cost if he 
went ahead with the same.
Shortly after he had broken down and his car been uplifted Mr H complained to Lloyds to say 
that he didnt believe the car was of satisfactory quality when he acquired it in May 2018. 
On 3 September 2021 Lloyds contacted Mr H to say it had received his complaint and that it 
aimed to resolve it as soon as possible.
On 27 October 2021 Lloyds contacted Mr H to say that it was still looking into his complaint. 
But because it had the complaint for eight weeks he was free to refer it to our service for 
investigation.
On 19 November 2021 Lloyds issued Mr H with its FRL. Under cover of this FRL Lloyds said 
it didnt believe there was any fault present or developing when the car was acquired by 
Mr H in May 2018, but it was prepared to refund one monthly finance payment to helpwith 
additional transport costs.
On 23 November 2021 Mr H voluntarily terminated his agreement with Lloyds as was his 
right. This meant that Lloyds took, or was entitled to take, possession of the car.
On 6 December 2021, and unhappy with Lloyds FRL, Mr H referred his complaint to our 
service.
On 14 January 2022 Lloyds wrote to Mr H to say that he owed it (in respect of his 
agreement) £898.89.  
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he wasnt persuaded there was a fault present or 
developing when Mr H acquired the car, or that there were any durability issues with it. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I would also like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, Ive to make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration in this matter. But Ive simply seen insufficient evidence 
to be able to conclude that there was a fault present or developing when he acquired the car, 
or that there was a durability issue with it. Ive come to this conclusion having had regard, 
amongst other things, to the following:
The age and recorded odometer reading when Mr H acquired the car  
approximately three years and 10,000 miles.
The age and recorded odometer reading when the car broke down  approximately 
six years and 33,000 miles.
The time that elapsed between Mr H acquiring the car and it breaking down  
approximately three years and 23,000 miles.
The lack of an independent report from Mr H commenting on whether the car broke 
down as a result of a fault that was present or developing when the car was acquired 
by him.
The lack of any comment from the garage to which the car was first uplifted, or the 
supplying dealership, that the car broke down as a result of a fault that was present 
or developing when the car was acquired by Mr H.
Comment from the supplying dealership that, more likely than not, the car broke 
down as a result of poor maintenance rather than as a result of a manufacturing 
defect.
An incomplete service history, regardless of the reasons for the same.Comment by the manufacturer that there was no known manufacturing faults (linked 
to the timing chain or oil pump) with the model of car acquired by Mr H.
Comment by Lloyds that there is no recall (by the manufacturer) on Mr Hs car.
Mr H says that the manufacturers offer of a contribution to any repair costs (which it 
increased over a period of time in 5% increments to 20% from 5%) supports his case that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when he acquired it. But I disagree.
There could be a number of reasons why a manufacturer might be prepared to contribute to 
the repair cost of one of its cars. And in the particular circumstances of this case Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, this offer was made as a gesture of goodwill and 
without any admission of liability.
Mr H also complains about the delay on the part of Lloyds in issuing him with a FRL. But 
despite what the investigator said on this point, that is complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, I cant see that Mr H has been prejudiced by this delay. Despite there being good 
reasons in my view for the delay Mr H, whether in possession of a FRL or not, was always 
free to refer his complaint to our service after eight weeks. Furthermore, this is exactly what 
Lloyds advised Mr H he could do under cover of its letter dated 27 October 2021.
So, in summary, I find that Lloyds has done nothing wrong in the particular circumstances of 
this case. However, I would remind Lloyds of its obligations to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if its looking to recover any outstanding sums (under the agreement) from 
Mr H and Mr H say he is in, and is able to demonstrate that he is in, financial difficulties. This 
includes, where it hasnt done so already, considering reducing any sums due from Mr H by 
one monthly finance payment as offered under cover of its FRL.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman