DRN-2580929
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way that RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault 
Finance, has dealt with a hire agreement for a van battery.
What happened
Mr T entered into a hire agreement for a van battery with Renault Finance that he signed in 
March 2017. He agreed to make 36 monthly hire payments of £72 for the battery. He had 
some issues with the van for which hed hired the battery and he contacted Renault Finance 
in December 2019 about ending the hire agreement for the battery.
It said that he needed to return the battery to it, at his cost, but that it would waive the early 
termination fee. Mr T says that he was told that the battery had to be returned to Renault 
Finance in France, which he couldnt afford to do, so he left the battery in the van which he 
left with the dealer because it was no longer roadworthy. 
Mr T had cancelled his direct debit to Renault Finance in November 2019 so didnt make the 
hire payments that were required under the agreement. It sent him a notice of sums in 
arrears in December 2019, a default notice in January 2020 and terminated his agreement in 
February 2020. It said that the outstanding balance on his account, including the value of the 
battery, was £7,477.80.
He complained to Renault Finance in February 2020 but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be 
upheld. She said that the balance of £7,477.80 didnt take into account the reduction of the 
insured value of the battery of 10% each year that was set out in the agreement and that 
Renault Finance had confirmed that the total balance due from Mr T was £3,304.05. She 
said that Renault Finance was entitled to charge Mr T for the insured value of the battery 
(after the relevant deductions) plus the arrears due from him under the agreement. She said 
that the terms and conditions which he agreed to when entering into the hire agreement, 
allowed for that.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
the investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary, that:
he should have been told that he was responsible for the removal of the battery to a 
reasonable location;
he was told that it would have to be taken to a specialist dealer (but the van, with the 
battery in it, was already with a specialist dealer);
he was told that he would have to bear the cost of returning the battery to France; 
and
it has calculated the amount due from him incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear that Mr T wanted to return the battery and end the hire agreement when he 
stopped using the van because it was no longer roadworthy;
he contacted Renault Finance in December 2019 about returning the battery and its 
system notes show that he was told that if he was scrapping the van he would 
 need to pay the costs of repatriation however the battery must be diagnosed to 
ensure it is in working condition prior to repatriation ;
those notes also show that it responded to an e-mail from Mr T two days letter and 
said:
Under clause 17 of your terms and conditions you do have the ability to 
terminate your Agreement with RCI. However as noted under clause 17.4 this 
is dependent on your returning the battery to us as per clauses 15.2 and 15.4. 
To do so, you can arrange for the battery to be diagnosed, removed and sent 
for re- stocking. You would be responsible for paying these costs, as well as 
being responsible for the transport of the vehicle and shell to & from the 
dealership respectively. We are unable to provide an up-front cost for these 
as you will only be invoiced once the technician has diagnosed the battery 
and sent the report to our Head Oce in France. An early termination fee is 
also normally required in such a scenario but in this case, should you wish to 
proceed I have arranged that this will be waived;
Mr T was sent an e-mail in January 2020 which said that he was required to take the 
van to one of its electrical vehicles specialists for the battery to be removed and 
repatriated to its head office in France and that if he did so he would incur no 
additional cost;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Renault Finance told 
Mr T that he needed to return the battery to it in France  but he did have to arrange 
for the battery to be diagnosed, removed and sent for re-stocking at his cost  but as 
the van was with a dealer which was an electrical vehicles specialist he would only 
have needed to pay for the battery to be removed;
he didnt do so and the battery was left with the van when he left it at the dealer - the 
battery wasnt returned to Renault Finance in accordance with the agreement and Mr 
T cancelled his direct debit  even though Renault Finance had said that it would 
waive the early termination fee;
as Mr T hadnt made the payments required under the agreement, Renault Finance 
sent him a notice of sums in arrears in December 2019, a default notice in January 
2020 and, when he hadnt taken the action required by the default notice, it 
terminated his agreement in February 2020;
it said that the outstanding balance on his account, including the value of the battery, 
was £7,477.80  but that didnt take into account the reduction of the insured value of 
the battery of 10% each year that was set out in the agreement - and Renault 
Finance had confirmed that the total balance due from Mr T was £3,304.05;
Mr T didnt return the battery to Renault Finance and didnt make the hire payments 
required under the agreement so I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it to 
default his account, end his agreement and charge him for the insured value of the 
battery (reduced as set out in the agreement ) and for the arrears on his account;
other than the reduction in the value of the battery (which has now been corrected) I 
consider that Renault Finance has acted in accordance with the terms of the hire agreement and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it has 
acted incorrectly; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Renault Finance to reduce or waive the outstanding balance owed to it by Mr T, to 
remove the adverse information that its recorded on his credit file, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr T contacts Renault Finance and tries to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement for the amount that he owes to it. If he doesnt do so, I consider it to be likely 
that Renault Finance will take further action to recover that amount from him (to the extent 
that its legally entitled to do so). If Mr T is experiencing financial difficulties he should tell 
Renault Finance about those difficulties. Its required to respond to any financial difficulties 
that hes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman