DRN-2312031
The complaint
Mrs W and Mrs P, on behalf of S, complain about American International Group UK Limiteds 
decision to decline the claim made under Ss commercial insurance policy.
What happened
S has the benefit of a commercial insurance policy underwritten by American International 
Group UK Limited (AIG). S closed its businesses in March 2020 due to the national 
government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19. Mrs W and Mrs P 
contacted the broker for that policy, M, to claim for Ss losses arising out of the closure.
M informed Mrs W and Mrs P that Ss policy didnt provide cover for the losses it was 
claiming for and so AIG would not meet the claim. M, on behalf of AIG, said Ss policy 
provided cover for loss of income following business interruption. But that this did not cover 
the circumstances of Ss claim. M said that, whilst the most relevant part of Ss policy did 
provide cover following the discovery of certain diseases, Covid-19 was not one of the 
diseases specified in the policy, so was not included in this cover. 
Mrs W and Mrs P were unhappy with this, ultimately referring Ss complaint about the 
decline of the claim to this service. 
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation S found itself in. The 
investigator said that an endorsement to the policy set out the diseases that were covered, 
and Covid-19 was not one of these. He also said that whilst the policy offered cover for 
business interruption as a result of damage, Covid-19 had not caused damage. 
Mrs W and Mrs P dont agree so the matter has been put to me to decide. 
I note that Mrs W and Mrs P have said that they did not receive the document with the 
endorsement which is particularly relevant to their claim. But if they wish to complain about 
the documents they were provided with at the time of renewal, this will have to be raised as 
complaint about M who would have been responsible for providing the documents to S. The 
current complaint concerns the decision AIG not to meet Ss claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on S. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover S is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy S had. 
As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy S holds with AIG to determine whether 
there are any sections that would require AIG to meet the claim like the one S is making. 
Having done so, I dont think there are.
Ss policy provides cover for loss of income as a result of several things. The main business 
interruption section, along with a number of the additional covers to this section, requires 
there to have been damage which caused the interruption. Damage is defined in the policy 
as; Loss of, destruction of or Damage to. And the terms require this damage to occur to 
property. Covid-19 didnt cause any damage to property. And, whilst S has no doubt suffered 
a loss of income, this was not in consequence of a loss of any property.
Several other additional covers are provided as part of the policy. None of these offer cover 
in the circumstances either. Mrs W and Mrs P have focussed their arguments on the 
Notifiable Disease additional cover. And whilst I dont think this term offers cover in the 
circumstances Id like to explain why.
Notifiable Disease
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid-19 pandemic and 
required certain businesses, including Ss, to close. Because of this, the most likely section 
of the policy that would respond is the extension in relation to notifiable disease. 
It is necessary at this point to clarify that, from 2015, AIG change the wording of this term in 
relation to this policy. An endorsement was added to the policy and this amended the cover 
provided. As above, Mrs W and Mrs P have said that they did not receive a copy of this 
endorsement. That is a matter they may need to take up with Ss broker though. And 
regardless of whether it was received or not, the endorsement did form part of the policy. 
The wording of the extension itself was slightly amended, so that it provided cover for losses 
resulting from:
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within a one 
mile radius.
Significantly though, the endorsement replaced the definition of Notifiable Disease with:
Illness sustained by any person resulting from any of the following: Acute 
Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, Puerperal Fever, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, or Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid 
Fever, Typhus, Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, Viral Hepatitis (types A, B & C), Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever.
Mrs W and Mrs P have told us that S closed due to the government-imposed lockdown. The 
nature of Ss business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open after this 
time. They have not provided evidence that Covid-19 was at or within one mile of Ss 
premises. But even if Covid-19 was within this area, this term would not provide cover.The definition of Notifiable Disease is a specified list of diseases. This means only losses 
caused by these diseases are covered under this term. 
There is a government list of notifiable diseases - diseases that a medical practitioner must 
notify the local authority of. But the list in Ss policy was also not the entire list of notifiable 
diseases, as it existed at the time of drafting. It did not, for example, include Severe Acute 
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was an identified notifiable disease at the time. The 
list also included some diseases that are not defined by the relevant legislation as notifiable 
diseases, such as Chickenpox.
Instead, AIG defined a finite list of specific diseases it was providing cover for under the 
policy. I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses 
that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
As well as only covering some of the notifiable diseases, there is nothing in the policy 
wording (which there could have been if that was what AIG wanted to cover) which suggests 
that the policy was intended to cover new diseases generally, or new diseases added to the 
Governments notifiable diseases list from time to time. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover some of the known notifiable diseases at the 
point the policy was taken out. And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a 
different way.
Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied AIGs decision to decline the claim under this 
term was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered all the circumstances of this case, whilst I am sorry for the position S 
finds itself in, I am persuaded AIGs decision not to meet Ss claim was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mrs P, 
on behalf of S, to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman