DRN-1890804
The complaint
Miss C complains about the standard of service received for breakdown cover received from 
her insurer, RAC Insurance Ltd (RAC). Her complaint relates to the recovery of her vehicle, 
initially in France and then after a second breakdown in Spain, the time taken for her and the 
vehicle to be repatriated to the UK, and responsibility for the cost of the repairs, as well as 
other damage which she alleges occurred to the vehicle before its repatriation. 
What happened
Miss C was driving through France when her vehicle suffered a loss of power and 
overheating on 25 July 2019. She accessed the breakdown services that apply to the French 
Motorway network and her car was recovered to a garage under those arrangements. The 
garage inspected the vehicle and did not identify a problem, although Miss C maintains that 
the inspection was a brief examination and drive. Miss C had breakdown cover for European 
travel as part of her motor insurance policy, with the breakdown cover provided under a 
separate contract by RAC. Miss C called RAC on 25 July and discussed her situation. RACs 
records show that they also spoke to the garage and confirmed that they could not identify a 
problem. The RAC asked her if she wanted to stay in the location, but she said that she 
wanted to continue her journey and the RAC asked her to contact them if she had any 
further problems.
Miss C continued her journey, but her vehicle suffered a second breakdown on 26 July and 
further breakdown assistance was provided. Miss C was provided with a hire car to complete 
her journey and arrangements were made for her vehicle to be transported to a garage that 
she nominated at her destination. There were delays in contacting the garage and a 
diagnosis of the repairs was not obtained until 16 August. These were estimated to cost 
€4000 - €5000 and to take 10 days for parts to arrive and a further 10 days for the repair. 
The RAC did not accept responsibility for the repair and it was agreed with Miss C that she 
and the vehicle would be returned to the UK. Further delays occurred, with Miss C returning 
on 17 September, and the vehicle on 17 October.
  
Miss C complained to the RAC about the delays, mechanical failure and other damage she 
alleged was caused to her vehicles front bumper, number plate, rear suspension and a tyre. 
She asked for the RAC to pay for the costs of repairs and other damage.
  
The RAC considered Miss Cs complaint and upheld it in part, acknowledging confusion in 
their European team when handling her case and covering costs of a hire car and 
repatriation to the UK that exceeded the limits on costs set out in her policy. They also 
offered Miss C £500 as a gesture of goodwill for administration and communication issues.
Our Investigator thought RAC had acted fairly in providing a hire car and repatriating Miss C 
and her vehicle to the UK, and in offering compensation. Our investigator also concluded 
that the RAC could not be held responsible for the mechanical failure that caused the 
second breakdown and consequently could not be held responsible for the costs of repair. 
The investigator also did not uphold Miss Cs complaint in respect of the other damage that 
she claimed had occurred to the vehicle.
Miss C disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is the decide whether the RAC has acted fairly towards Miss C.  
It is clear the RAC accepts that the standard of service provided to Miss C following the 
second breakdown fell short of the standards expected due to the length of time taken to 
decide the best solution for Miss C and her vehicle. It took some six weeks for Miss C to be 
repatriated to the UK and a further month for her unrepaired vehicle to be repatriated. A hire 
car was provided to Miss C for the period to 31 August and then subsequently to enable her 
to return to the UK. I note that the period of hire was greater than the 14 day period set out in 
the breakdown section of her insurance policy. In my view the RACs offer of £500 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
Miss Cs main complaint is that the mechanical failure that caused the second breakdown 
should have been detected when the vehicle was examined by the garage in France after 
the first breakdown, and therefore the cost of the repairs should be borne by the RAC. We 
are not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this would be a matter for the experts in these situations, which would be engineers and 
insurers. It is clear from the diagnostic reports from the garages that the vehicle suffered a 
major mechanical failure to the engine. Neither report says how the failure occurred and the 
cause of the failure, for example whether due to wear and tear, the age of the vehicle or 
failure to carry out routine maintenance or replacement of parts.  
Miss C maintains that the damage to the vehicle was caused by a fault that should have 
been identified by the garage in France had they carried out a more comprehensive check. 
However, it is not possible in the absence of independent expert evidence to conclude that 
this was the case. In any event, the initial breakdown and recovery to a garage was not 
carried out under the RACs arrangements as they only became involved after that point. 
The records provided by the RAC show that they discussed the situation with Miss C and it 
was her decision to continue her journey. On that basis I dont consider that the RAC can be 
held responsible for the mechanical failure nor for the cost of the repairs to the vehicle.
   
I have also considered Miss Cs complaint about the other damage that she says happened 
in the time between the second breakdown and the return of the car to the UK. She has 
provided photographs to support her view and the report from the UK garage notes damage 
to the front bumper and number plate, a tyre and to the suspension. The RAC has 
considered these photographs and in turn provided its own photographs of the vehicle during 
the recovery process and on its return to the UK. They have also provided comments from 
their own engineer on the likely cause and circumstances of the damage. This concluded 
that the damage would either have been caused by an impact (front bumper and number 
plate) or that it would have been unlikely to have been caused by the recovery process (rear 
suspension). The nature of the damage to the tyre was consistent with a sudden deflation 
rather than a slow puncture. I have considered the evidence provided by both Miss C and 
the RAC, and on balance I do not think it is possible to attribute it clearly to the period 
between the second breakdown and recovery of the vehicle to the UK. 
I consider that RAC Insurance Ltd has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for 
Miss Cs distress and inconvenience and by covering the cost of hire cars and repatriation 
costs in excess of time and cost limits set out in the breakdown section of her policy. I recommend that Miss C accepts RACs offer of compensation if this hasnt already been 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman