DRN-3976591
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd refuses to refund the money he lost to an investment scam. 
Mr I is represented by a third party, for ease of reading, Ill refer to him alone in this decision. 
What happened
Mr I has explained that in 2021 he made payments from his Revolut account to fund what he 
thought was a legitimate investment with a company that turned out to be a scam. 
Mr I first sent his payments to a crypto exchange, bought crypto and subsequently sent it 
onto the scammer. The relevant payments (the scam payments) made from Mr Is newly 
opened Revolut current account are listed below.
Payment 
number Date DescriptionMethod of 
paymentAmount 
(£)
1 19/07/2021 Moonpay LtdBank 
transfer £2,490
2 24/09/2021 Moonpay Ltd Debit card £2,508.15
Total £4,998.15
Mr I got in touch with Revolut on 2 November 2021 to request a recall of the scam 
payments. Revolut ultimately didnt reimburse him. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr I referred his complaint about Revolut to this service. As our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Whilst Mr I has made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, this 
only applies to domestic bank transfer payments to another person. Here Mr I sent payment 
1 to a Moonpay account that would have been held in his name and then from there, sent 
the purchased crypto to the scammer. So in this case, payment 1 was not sent to another 
person. Payment 2 was of course a debit card payment which isnt covered. The CRM Code 
is therefore not applicable to Mr Is complaint, so Ive gone onto consider whether Revolut 
ought to have reasonably suspected Mr I was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Prevention
Its common ground that Mr I authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Revolut to make the payments. So although Mr I didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr I is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
Mr I didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid a legitimate company, so I dont think 
the payee alone ought to have caused particular concern to Revolut. That said, taking into 
account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry 
practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a Payment Service 
Provider (in this case Revolut) to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud and scams. But there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In terms of prevention, given the size of payment 1 and that Mr Is Revolut account had been 
newly opened at the point of that payment, Im not persuaded there would have been 
anything sufficiently suspicious about this transaction for Revolut to have been obliged to 
block the payment pending enquiries with Mr I before letting it through. Revolut had no 
genuine regular spend to compare this payment to and as it was a one-off payment, to a 
legitimate crypto provider, of not a particularly large amount, I dont think Revolut ought to 
have been reasonably concerned. 
Payment 1 was made two months apart from payment 2 and payment 2 was of a similar 
amount to payment 1, so I dont think payment 2 appeared particularly unusual. 
I dont think - when taken individually or collectively - that the scam payments ought to have 
caused Revolut enough concern to have reasonably suspected Mr I may be the victim of 
fraud or a scam. I dont think the scam payments were unusual enough when considering 
the lack of account activity and value of the individual payments. I also dont think the time 
and space between the two payments is reasonably indicative of a scam as you may 
commonly expect more frequent payments. 
As I dont think Revolut ought to have blocked the scam payments before allowing them 
through, I dont need to consider how Mr I may or may not have responded to a warning 
from Revolut.  
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Revolut 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds and that this caused Mr Is loss.
I can see Revolut attempted to recover payment 1 from the beneficiary bank promptly. But 
the beneficiary bank replied to say that the end customer had spent the funds. I think this 
was to be expected as it isnt disputed that crypto was purchased from Moonpay before 
being sent to the scam wallet.   
In relation to payment 2, Revoluts only recovery option would have been to process a 
chargeback claim. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Mastercard -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr I.
Ive seen that Revolut considered processing a chargeback claim for Mr I but ultimately 
decided it had no grounds to do so. As Mr I didnt pay the scammers directly and instead 
paid Moonpay, his payment would have been converted to crypto before being sent to the 
wallet of his choosing (albeit completed under the guidance of the scammer). I therefore 
think Moonpay would have likely defended any chargeback claim on the basis that Mr I 
received the service he paid for. But before a chargeback claim can be defended, Revolut 
would need to have valid grounds to process any claim and it doesnt appear it would have 
had any because there is no dispute Mr I received crypto in exchange for his payment. And 
so, I dont think Revolut acted unfairly by choosing not to raise chargeback claims on Mr Is 
behalf. 
I therefore dont think Revolut could have recovered any of Mr Is payments. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr I, not least because he sold his car to fund 
payments to the scammer. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Revolut is 
responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Is loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman