DRN-3360148
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Rewards Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Halifax agreed that this account had been mis-sold and refunded the accounts fees with 
interest, in line with this services approach.
Halifax did though deduct the savings that Miss T made from having the URCA account. 
Specifically, as the URCA account came with a £300 fee-free overdraft buffer whereas a fee 
-free account would attract daily overdraft usage fees, Halifax therefore deducted the 
savings that Miss T made  on the basis that she wouldve been charged these daily fees 
had she held a standard fee-free account instead.
Miss T did not agree as she felt that it was unfair to make this deduction. Miss Ts case has 
therefore been passed to me to issue a decision on this point.
For the sake of clarity, I would like to confirm that I am only looking at Miss Ts complaint 
about the redress offered by Halifax in relation to the sale of the URCA account that was 
taken out in 2009.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Miss Ts complaint.
In this instance all parties agree that the URCA account was mis-sold and therefore all I am 
looking into is whether what Halifax has already done is sufficient. At this point, it might help 
for me to explain that, where we think that a packaged bank account has been mis-sold, any 
redress we recommend is intended to put the consumer back in the position they would have 
been in if the mis-sale had not occurred. Usually, this means getting the bank to refund all 
the account fees paid by a consumer, plus an amount of interest on each fee to reflect the 
fact that a consumer has not had the benefit of that money for some time. And this is the first 
part of what Halifax did to work out the compensation due to Miss T.
In some cases, where a consumer has benefited from having the account  as Halifax says 
Miss T did - it might be appropriate for a bank to make some deductions from the refund of 
fees the consumer paid plus the interest due on them.
But a bank needs to provide good reasons for doing so (based on the position that the 
consumer would most likely have been in if theyd not had the packaged bank account) and 
clear costings. If it cant do both of these things to support any deduction, wed usually say it 
would be unfair for a bank to make such a deduction.
Halifax has said that it can do both of these things here. It says Miss T did not have to pay 
daily overdraft fees as a direct result of having the fee-paying URCA, compared to what she 
wouldve paid on a free account, when she used her overdraft. It therefore has deducted the 
fees that Miss T wouldve paid for her overdraft had it not sold her the URCA and shed 
instead held a fee-free account. I think this is reasonable so I am satisfied that what Halifax 
has already paid is in line with our approach and is a fair outcome to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that what Halifax has already done is fair and reasonable and it does not 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman