DRN-4166153
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wont honour a currency exchange rate that they 
promised to him by mistake.
Mr Ss complaint is brought to this service by his appointed representative. However, for 
ease of reference, Ill refer solely to Mr S throughout this letter.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr S phoned Metro and discussed an international currency transfer 
from his UK Metro account to an account held in his name overseas. Mr S was quoted an 
exchange rate and was told that his overseas account would receive approximately 410,500 
Euros. Metro confirmed the details of this currency exchange with Mr S on several 
occasions, including in written form.
However, when the currency exchange was completed, Mr S discovered that hed only 
received approximately 281,350 Euros  significantly less than hed been promised by 
Metro. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Metro responded to Mr S and explained that an error had occurred in the calculation of the 
exchange rate that had been promised to Mr S, with the appropriate exchange rate being 
multiplied when it should have been divided, resulting in Mr S being promised an incorrect 
more favourable rate. Metro apologised to Mr S for the mistake and paid £100 to him but 
noted that Mr S had received the correct exchange rate. 
Mr S reiterated his complaint to Metro, who after further consideration reimbursed the 
customer spread of £7,882 to Mr S and offered to pay a further compensation payment of 
£250 to him for any upset or inconvenience that he may have incurred. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with Metros further response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Metros actions and proposal 
in response to Mr Ss complaint already represented a fair outcome. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr S for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr S and Metro. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
The key point of contention here is whether Metro should fairly and reasonably be instructed 
to honour an incorrect exchange rate, promised to Mr S as the result of a system calculation 
error. I feel that the answer to this question is clearly no. 
There are several reasons for this. The first is that Mr S hasnt lost out financially here. This 
is because he received the correct rate when the transfer was exacted. What has happened 
is that Mr S hasnt received a considerably more favourable exchange rate that he wasnt 
entitled to receive based on the currency market at that time.
To illustrate this point, consider a scenario where the calculation error is reversed, and Mr S 
receives less money than he should have done  150,000 Euros, rather than the correct 
281,350 Euros. In this scenario, by any reasonable standard, Mr S would be reimbursed so 
that he received the correct amount  281,350 Euros  regardless of any documents hed 
signed that included a less favourable, incorrect exchange rate. And I feel that the same 
standard of fairness applies here, with Mr S having been quoted a more favourable, incorrect 
exchange rate. Ultimately, I feel that Mr S has received a fair currency exchange. 
Additionally, as an overseas account holder in a Euro currency territory, I feel its likely that 
Mr S would have been aware that he was being quoted an exchange rate by Metro that was 
so highly in his favour that it was likely to have been likely quoted in error. Indeed, the 
difference between the amount Mr S was incorrectly quoted and the amount he correctly 
received was approximately 46%. And with such an obvious discrepancy, I would reasonably 
have expected Mr S to actively question the accuracy of the rate with Metro, which would 
potentially have uncovered the error and mitigated against the trouble and inconvenience 
that Mr S has subsequently incurred.
But Metro did make a mistake here. And in response to that mistake, theyve offered to pay a 
further compensation payment of £250 to Mr S and have reimbursed the customer spread of 
£7,882 from the correctly executed exchange to him. This means Mr S has received the 
exchange of his money without any currency spread loss, and thus has received a notably 
more beneficial exchange than would have been the case had the exchange been 
completed without error. Metros actions and offer of further compensation here seem fair to 
me, and I wont be instructing them to do anything more.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Metro should fairly or reasonably be instructed to honour what 
was a clearly an incorrect currency exchange quote. And Im satisfied that Metros offer of a 
further £250 compensation does fairly compensate Mr S for the incorrect quote he received, 
and that Metro have ensured that Mr S has benefitted financially from the currency exchange 
by reimbursing the £7,882 customer spread to him.  
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour, Ill only be 
doing so on a limited basis to instruct Metro  should Mr S accept my final decision  to 
make the £250 payment of further compensation to him that theyve already offered to make. I trust that Mr S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have. 
Putting things right
Metro must make a further compensation payment of £250 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman