DRN-4523358
The complaint
Miss O complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In April 2023, Miss O came across an advertisement for a company Ill refer to as D while 
searching online for part time work. She had previously sought genuine employment using 
the platform and she noted Ds website was extremely professional and that there were 
positive reviews on Trustpilot.
She applied for the role before being contacted via WhatsApp by someone claiming to work 
for D, who Ill refer to as the scammer. The scammer helped Miss O to set up an account 
on Ds platform and gave her the log-in details. He explained the role would entail reviewing 
hotels and that she would be required to make small deposits to access tasks, which would 
generate commission upon completion. She would be required to complete sets of 35 tasks 
to upgrade her account to the next level. A withdrawal would be processed after each set 
and she was required to complete a minimum of 3 sets of 35 tasks per day.
The scammer said he would show her how to navigate the platform, complete tasks, and 
deposit and withdraw funds. She was also told that she would be added to a group chat 
containing 19 others who were also working for D.
The scammer told Miss O she would need to purchase tasks in cryptocurrency because it 
was an online job and D was an international company, so it was easier to pay employees in 
cryptocurrency. She was told to open a Revolut account and to send funds from there to a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform Ill refer to as B, before sending the cryptocurrency to D. 
Between 19 April 2023 and 22 April 202, she made ten payments to B totalling £5,555 using 
a Visa debit card connected to her Revolut account. During the period she received two 
withdrawals totalling £663.67, so the total loss was £4,891.33.
Miss O began completing tasks in early April 2023 and received a number of small 
withdrawals which she re-invested. As her account balance generated more commission it 
was upgraded through the levels, but as she completed more tasks, Miss O noticed her 
account go into minus figures. Eventually, she ran out of funds and realised shed been 
scammed.
Miss O complained to Revolut and it blocked her card, but it refused to refund any of the 
money shed lost. She wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the 
assistance of a representative. She said Revolut had failed to query the scam payments or 
provide any warnings despite them being highly unusual. She said she was a vulnerable 
customer and Revolt should have done more to protect her from such a sophisticated and 
complex scam. She explained that she used all her savings and had borrowed £2,000 from a 
friend. She also said Revolut had failed to properly raise a chargeback request on her behalf 
or to recover the funds. She said she wanted it to refund the money she lost and pay her 
£500 compensation and legal costs.
Her representative said Revolut had failed to attempt a chargeback in respect of the card 
payment. They explained that Miss O had made ten payments to a new payee which was a 
banned cryptocurrency merchant within the space of 3 days. They argued it should have 
intervened on 21 April 2023 when the first high value payment was made, explaining the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had banned B from carrying out financial activities in the 
UK and Revolut had been on notice that payments to B were high-risk. 
They said its clear the scammer suggested Miss O should set up a Revolut account 
because they knew it had ineffective systems in place to prevent fraud and the scam 
payments were high value and out of character as Miss O didnt regularly make payments 
this large to new accounts. It should have asked Miss O why she was making the payments, 
whether there was a third party involved, whether shed done any research, whether shed 
checked the FCA website, whether shed received any withdrawals and whether anyone had 
pressured her to make the payments. 
They said Miss O wasnt prompted to give false answers and so she would have said she 
was making payments to D in cryptocurrency for an online job and that she had discussed 
the payments with a trainer. They argued that this would have unveiled the scam and so, 
even though she was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant, it should have 
still provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about scams 
involving cryptocurrency.
Revolut commented that Miss O should have known the risks involved with commission-
based jobs which dont require prior experience or employment documents, and the fact she 
was being paid in cryptocurrency was a clear sign that the job wasnt legitimate. 
It further commented that there was no other activity on the account prior to the scam 
transactions, so there was no information available which it could have used to determine 
whether the activity was unusual. It has argued that all the payments were 3DS-
authenticated by Miss O in the app, they were relatively low value, they were spread over 
multiple days and Miss O had received funds into the account from B. It has also explained 
that many of its customers use Revolut to make cryptocurrency transactions and the 
transactions matched the reason Miss O gave when she opened the account which was 
spend or save money.
Regarding the chargeback request, Revolt said that Miss O was adding funds to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency account and once the funds are deposited to the beneficiary accounts, the 
service is considered to have been provided. And it had no rights to dispute the transactions 
that occurred after the money had been transferred from Revolut.
Our investigator didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious in 
appearance. She noted account was newly opened and Miss O had chosen the reason for 
opening the account as spend or save money. The first transaction was on 18 April 2023, 
which was a credit from B, and there was another credit the following day. 
She noted the first six payments were low value and werent made in quick succession, so 
there was nothing to suggest Miss O was being pressurised. Because of this, she didnt think 
Revolut missed an opportunity to intervene. She accepted the seventh payment was a 
slightly higher amount (£1,210), and that Miss O had made three other payments that day, 
but she didnt think this meant Revolut needed to intervene because the account was newly 
opened, so there was no spending history to compare the payments with. She also noted Miss O didnt speak to or interact with Revolut when she made the payments, so it didnt 
miss an opportunity to identify they were being made to a scam. 
Our investigator explained there wasnt a reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback 
request against B because it had provided the goods/service she paid for, so she didnt think 
Revolut had acted unfairly in refusing to raise a chargeback request. And she didnt 
recommend that Revolut should pay any compensation or legal costs.
Miss O has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
has argued that Revolut ought to have intervened when she made the seventh payment as 
there were multiple payments on the same day, the payments progressively increased in 
value, creating a pattern of fraud, and Miss O wasnt using the account for spending or 
saving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss O has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the card payment when 
Miss O reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss O).
Miss Os own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers to B. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been 
able to evidence it had done what was asked. That is, in exchange for Miss Os payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im also satisfied Miss O authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Miss O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Miss O didnt intend her money to go 
to scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
PreventionRevolut is an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) and at the time these events took place it 
wasnt subject to all of the same rules, regulations and best practice that applied to banks 
and building societies. But it was subject to the FCAs Principles for Businesses and BCOBS 
2 and owed a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far 
as reasonably possible.
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Revolut ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were 
part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss 
O when she tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Miss O from financial harm 
due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems. Because this was a newly 
opened account, there was no spending history to compare the payments with. All the 
payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and I agree that the first six 
payments were low value, so there was no reason for Revolut to intervene. 
Ive noted that payments seven was for a slightly larger amount and that Miss O had made 
three other payments that day, so the cumulative spend by the time she made the seventh 
payment was £2,550. I also accept this was a new payee linked to cryptocurrency and that 
she had mad multiple payments on the same day to the same payee. But, based on the fact 
she Miss O paying a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant and the payments were low value, I 
dont think Revolut needed to intervene.
So, while I understand Miss O will be disappointed, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct 
steps prior to the funds being released  as well as the steps it took after being notified of 
the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss O has lost money and the effect this has had on 
her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant 
fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Recovery
I dont think there was a realistic prospect of a successful recovery because Miss O paid an 
account in his own name and moved the funds onwards from there.
Compensation
Miss O isnt entitled to any compensation of legal fees from Revolut.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman