DRN-1237559
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
December 2001. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 2001. The policy was 
added to Mr Js credit card account when he applied for the card in person. The policy cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Halifax made Mr J aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. Ive seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Mr J. Ive noted that the application 
form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an advised sale, and was 
conducted in a branch, face to face, I think its reasonable to assume that a 
discussion took place and that the form, including Mr Js personal details are typed 
because the form was completed on-screen before being printed off for Mr J to look 
over and sign. And as the PPI premiums wouldve appeared on Mr Js monthly credit 
card statements, had the PPI been added to his account without either his knowledge 
or his consent, I wouldve expected him to query the PPI in the first few months of the 
policy starting.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he told us he was employed and in good health so he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover. 
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr J chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for him. Mr J told 
us he only had statutory sick pay in the event that he was off work due to sickness or 
an accident, but this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months and at a level 
over and above that provided by his employer. And although he says he had a small 
amount of savings, this policy wouldve allowed him to use his savings for other more 
pressing matters at what would likely have been a stressful time.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr J and his representative have said, but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman