DRN-3746429
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement from Close 
Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr M took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers on 3 October 2021 for an 
Audi S3 car. The car was around nine and a half years old and had covered around 104,000 
miles when acquired. I can see that when he took the car for an MOT in December 2021, 
there was a clutch replacement carried out at this point. 
He began to have some further problems in April 2022. He replaced some ignition coils on 1 
April 2022 at a mileage of around 107,500, and also replaced some spark plugs and had 
further work done on the ignition coils on 6 April 2022 at around 107,800 miles. 
In June 2022 there were further problems with an engine misfire. On 7 June 2022 the car 
was looked at, with a mileage of just under 109,000 miles. Some diagnosis was done by an 
Audi specialist which identified some issues with the fuel injectors, as well as poor quality or 
low levels of oil and brake fluids. It also showed brake pads and rear springs needing 
replacing and tyres below the legal limit.
Mr M complained to Close Brothers and they responded in late June 2022, saying that as no 
evidence had been provided to show that the issues had been developing at point of supply, 
they werent responsible. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. The Investigator here who 
investigated the case did not uphold it. They felt that the issues identified were wear and tear 
issues and didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality at point of sale. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He felt that they had been told by three 
separate garages that they couldnt supply the evidence required to show the faults 
developing at point of sale because it wasnt possible to get this evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has been represented during this investigation by his mother, but for simplicity, I will 
just refer to Mr M and evidence weve received from him or on his behalf. 
Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same 
reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with goods under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and 
the vehicles history.
Close Brothers supplied Mr M with a car that was approaching ten years old and had 
travelled 104,000 miles when it was supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it 
would have been if it had been supplied new.
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that some of the parts of the 
car might have already suffered notable wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car 
might need significant repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road 
worn when it was supplied. 
What this means in this case is that just because something went wrong quite soon after Mr 
M took delivery of the car, this does not automatically mean the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If the issues being suffered would be considered normal wear and 
tear for a car of the age and mileage, the car may still have been of satisfactory quality at 
the point it was supplied.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present 
when the car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
The car initially had a clutch kit replaced in December 2021. Mr M hasnt specifically raised 
this issue, but its important to consider it alongside the other problems. The clutch would be 
a wear and tear issue for a car at a mileage of over 105,000 miles. This falls into the normal 
lifespan of a clutch, and as such, is a wear and tear item which has reached the end of its 
natural lifespan. If this part had been faulty at the point of supply, the car wouldnt have been 
driveable, but this wasnt the case.   
The next time Mr M had issues was in April 2022, with the ignition coils and spark plugs. 
These are also wear and tear issues for a car of this age, and the car had travelled around 
3,000-4,000 miles since the start of the agreement six months prior. Two months later hes 
suffered further problems with the fuel injectors, and the Audi report also highlighted issues 
with front brake discs and rear broken springs, and tyres being below the legal limit. 
The average lifespan of fuel injectors for this vehicle is anything up to around 100,000 miles. 
So, with the car having travelled around 108,000  109,000 miles when the problem has first 
appeared, I dont agree that this makes the car unsatisfactory quality. While they last longer 
than some other wear and tear parts, they do have a finite lifespan which appears to have 
been reached. It also took around eight months and 5,000 miles from the point of supply for this fault to 
develop, which doesnt suggest they were faulty at the point of sale. Theres no reports of 
the engine misfiring before June 2022. I can see that Mr M has told Close Brothers in June 
2022 about a problem with the car losing power and that they had already had some repairs 
done on the ignition, but no evidence has been provided about this, or when it happened. It 
seems most likely that this was finally diagnosed by Audi as the fuel injector problem. But I 
cant hold Close Brothers responsible for repairs carried out without their knowledge, even if 
I had evidence of these repairs. Theres no mention of this on the Audi diagnostic report from 
7 June 2022, which is the most persuasive evidence weve been provided. 
With regards to the front brake discs, rear road springs and tyres mentioned on the Audi 
report, these parts would also be wear and tear items, and also form part of the MOT test. I 
can see Mr M secured an MOT test pass at the beginning of December 2021, two months 
after the agreement started. At this point, all 4 tyres were down as advisories, so nearing the 
end of their lifespan. However, theres no mention of any concerns or problems with brake 
discs or the rear road springs. 
These items are wear and tear items for a car, and its unfortunate that theyve failed a few 
months and a few thousand miles after Mr M acquired the car. But the evidence of the MOT 
test carried out shows that these items werent failing at the point of supply. Alongside this, 
the tyres are visible when buying a used car, so it would fall upon Mr M to check them, and 
ensure he was happy to buy the car with the tyres at the point of supply. They were legal at 
that point, but in the following few months, they have worn further. 
Ive seen no evidence of any other significant issues with the car. The Audi diagnostic report 
says that the engine oil was below minimum, the brake fluid was degraded and there was 
potentially some sort of issue with the headlight range. Again, headlight function would form 
part of an MOT test, so was tested, and passed in December 2021. The fluids in the car 
would need regular changing and servicing, so Im not persuaded any of these issues make 
the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mr M has said that three different garages have said they cant provide the evidence he 
needs to show the vehicle is of unsatisfactory quality, because its impossible to do this. Im 
unsure what he means, but all the evidence provided points to wear and tear problems on a 
car which had covered over 100,000 miles when supplied. 
I empathise with Mr M that these issues have occurred, and it also seems that the cost to fix 
them is perhaps higher than for other cars due to this vehicle being quite a high performance 
car. However, that doesnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied by 
Close Brothers. The problems which have occurred have developed after the car was 
supplied and are wear and tear issues. As such, I wont be asking Close Brothers to do any 
more here.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman