DRN-2985505
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) 
recorded a default on her credit file.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In May 2020, Amex reviewed Miss As account and requested employment 
information from her before it would allow further spending. 
Amex didnt receive the requested information. So, in June 2020 it issued a notice 
of default and gave a 14-day notice of account closure.
In July 2020, the account was cancelled, and Miss A was informed that the 
outstanding balance was now due in full. It informed her the account had been 
transferred to debt collection agency which Ill refer to as B. 
In August 2020, Miss A contacted B. It provided her with a list of debt management 
agencies so she could choose one to help with a repayment plan. B asked Miss A 
to provide a reference number if she did decide to contact any of the agencies  
and once it had the reference number it would be able to place the matter on hold in 
order to allow her to get advice.
Miss A provided the required reference number within a few days. 
Following this, Amex wrote to Miss A saying it noted she was in financial difficulties 
and had reduced the interest rate to 0% and that it had now passed her account to 
a specialist agency who would be touch with her.
Amex wrote again on 15 August 2020 to say the account had been cancelled and 
transferred to an external collections agency which Ill refer to as N. 
On 19 September 2020, a default was registered as no payments were received.
When Miss A realised a default had been registered, she contacted Amex to ask 
why, it informed her that her account had been transferred to N. So, Miss A 
contacted N immediately to set-up a repayment plan. 
Miss A raised a complaint as she was unhappy about the default. Shes said she 
didnt receive the letter dated 15 August and so she wasnt aware the account had 
been passed to N. She also disputes that she had told B she was struggling 
financially, and says she only contacted one of the debt management agencies 
because the advisor from B told her to do so.
In May 2021, our investigator requested Amex to provide some further information regarding 
why the default was applied and to provide proof the letter dated 15 August 2020 was sent. 
She also asked for its comments on why Miss A was noted as being in financial difficulties, 
when she contests that she told B this. Despite numerous chasers for this information it 
hasnt been received.
Our investigator has therefore investigated the complaint with the information available and 
upheld it. As Amex hasnt responded to our investigators view of the complaint, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex has said it has fairly applied the default to Miss As account and it has followed its 
terms and conditions.
I dont think Amex acted unfairly in notifying Miss A that as it hadnt received the employment 
information it requested, it would be cancelling her account. However, considering Miss A 
owed over £7,000, I would expect it to give Miss A an opportunity to arrange a repayment 
plan with the collection agency it had instructed to take over the repayment of the account 
before registering the default. Amex also said in its final response letter to Miss A even if an 
account is passed to a collections agency, it does not mean that a default will be registered if 
the account is kept up to date with repayments.
So, Ive considered whether Amex gave Miss A, a reasonable opportunity to do this before 
registering the default.
I can see from Miss As credit card statements that she missed paying her minimum monthly 
payments that were due in August and September 2020. And she paid £50 from October 
2020 - this appears to be when the repayment plan was set-up. However, the default had 
already been registered on 19 September 2020. 
Ive considered that Amex as a responsible lender has a duty to ensure that information 
passed on to credit reference agencies is an accurate reflection of how the account is 
maintained. However, our investigator asked Amex why the default was recorded at this 
point, but it hasnt provided the information requested. 
Without the information I cant be satisfied that it provided a reasonable opportunity for Miss 
A to keep the account up to date or that the default was recorded correctly. 
It is also unclear what was discussed when Miss A spoke with B. She has said B insisted 
she provided a reference number from one of the debt management agencies, although 
Miss A has said she wasnt struggling financially. Again, our investigator asked Amex for 
comments on this, and why the account was passed to a specialist agency, but no response 
was received.
From what Ive seen on 3 August 2020, B emailed Miss A. It provided a list of debt 
management agencies and said if you decide [to] contact any of them...please let us have 
the name of the agency you decide to use this appears to me to be an option rather that a 
requirement. But it also said once Miss A had provided a reference from one of the 
agencies, it would be able to place the matter on hold for a period to allow you time to take 
advice. Miss A provided B the reference within a few days and was waiting for a response.
Im not persuaded B acting on behalf of Amex took the necessary steps to set-up a plan or to 
explain to Miss A what would happen next, or what she should do next.Following this, Amex wrote to Miss A in August to say, due to her telling it about her financial 
difficulties her account had been passed to a specialist collections agency, and that it will be 
in contact with her shortly regarding the outstanding balance on her account. Amex also say 
it sent a further letter on 15 August to give Miss A the name of the debt collection agency -
Miss A says she didnt receive the letter, so she wasnt aware she needed to do anything 
further. Our investigator noted the letter was addressed correctly but has asked Amex for 
evidence that it was sent  again this hasnt been provided.
However, Ive looked at the latter letter and it says N will be responsible for liaising with your 
chosen debt management agency on behalf of American Express to work out a suitable 
arrangement for paying the outstanding balance. So, this indicates to me that Miss A didnt 
need to do anything further at this point as N would contact the debt agency Miss A supplied 
the reference number for. I also note there was no contact information included for N so Miss 
A couldnt have contacted it without getting further information from Amex. So, even if she 
had received it, I dont think it gave any clear instruction to Miss A on what she needed to do 
to prevent a default being registered.
From what Ive seen Miss A thought a plan was being arranged by B and was waiting to hear 
back from it. It wasnt until after the default was registered that Miss A contacted Amex 
directly to find out why this had happened, and was told the account had been transferred to 
N. She contacted it immediately to sort out a repayment plan. 
I havent seen any evidence that N working on behalf of Amex was in contact with Miss As 
debt management agency or with Miss A prior to the default being registered or that Miss A 
failed to engage with it. So, based on the information provided I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Amex to have registered a default at the time it did. I will therefore be 
directing Amex to put Miss A back in the position she wouldve been in if the payment 
arrangement had been set-up when she discussed it with B in August 2020.
Miss A has said this error has caused her stress and upset as she was applying for a 
mortgage during this time. She has provided evidence that her mortgage advisor was having 
difficulty in getting lenders to accept the application due to the default registered by Amex. 
Im satisfied Amex should compensate Miss A for this.
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to;
Amend Miss As credit file by removing the default and amend the records to show 
the payment arrangement had been set-up in August 2020 when she contacted B - 
Miss A should make these payments.
Pay Miss A, £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 22 
September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman