The complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection policy in 1999 and 
2007. Both policies were intended to protect Mrs Bs mortgage repayments.
What happened
The policy sold in 1999 was an MPPI policy and cost Mrs B £15.31 a month and wouldve 
provided her with a benefit of £288.97 a month if she was unable to work due to sickness, 
accident or unemployment. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months. This policy 
was cancelled in 2000. 
In 2007 Mrs B was sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) when she applied for a 
further advance. TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover 
(which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC). The overall monthly 
cost of Mrs Bs TMPP policy was £75.97 and it wouldve provided a benefit of £703.05. The 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. Mrs B has complained about the MPPI cover 
so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI element of the package in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed, so the 
case was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about either sale. Ill explain why.
1999 sale
BoS shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got her agreement to take it out. Mrs B says she was told she had to have the 
policy if she wanted the borrowing.
The policy seems to have been arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the 
discussions between Mrs B and the adviser involved. But BoS has been able to provide 
some paperwork that was completed at the time. So I have considered this paperwork 
alongside Mrs Bs comments and what we know in general about how this type of MPPI was 
sold. 
DRN-1809159Looking at the paperwork I can see that there is a separate application for the MPPI. This 
application includes Mrs Bs details and a breakdown of the cost of the policy. Mrs B also 
appears to have answered questions about her work situation and general health. The 
application is entirely separate to the application for the mortgage and Mrs B has signed it. 
And based on what we know about how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the 
conversations with the adviser to reflect the details on this form. And if Mrs B wasnt sure 
about the cover I wouldve expected her to query it before signing and agreeing to the cover.
2007 sale
In 2007 it seems Mrs B required a further advance and thats when she was sold the TMPP 
policy. This policy was also arranged during a meeting. BoS isnt able to provide details of 
the paperwork completed during the meeting. But it has been able to tell us a lot about its 
sales process at the time. Based on what we know about the banks sales process, I think 
its most likely Mrs B completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements of the 
cover she wanted, after discussion with the adviser. 
BoS has been able to provide some documents that wouldve been given to Mrs B after the 
sale had taken place. This paperwork includes details of the cover that has been agreed and 
its cost. The welcome letter sent to Mrs B following her discussions begins thank you for 
choosing a Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan. Mrs B was also sent a key facts 
document which included details of the optional insurance, and a breakdown of the TMPP 
cost has been provided. This implies that she had a choice to take the policy, and I think she 
wouldve questioned the cover at this stage if she didnt want it.
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Mrs B gave her consent 
for the MPPI to be set up on both occasions and the policies were presented as optional. 
Although I can understand why she may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Ive also considered Mrs Bs comments that she felt pressured into taking out the MPPI. But 
Mrs B hasnt been able to say what exactly the BoS advisor said or did to make her feel like 
this. Thats understandable given the time thats passed. I can accept the advisor may have 
told her it was a good idea to take the policies. But this isnt the same as pressure. So 
overall I havent seen enough to uphold the complaint only on what Mrs B has said.
BoS recommended the policies to Mrs B so it had to check that they were right for her. Mrs 
Bs circumstances were broadly the same at the time of both sales and looking at them it 
seems the policies were suitable. I say this because:
Mrs B was eligible for the policy on both occasions.
Based on what Mrs Bs told us about her circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policies didnt cover  like 
known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to 
stop her claiming the full benefit of the policies if shed needed to.
Mrs Bs told us she wouldve received generous sick pay from her employer. The 
policies wouldve paid out if Mrs B was off work due to accident or sickness. And they 
would have provided cover if she was made redundant. This cover wouldve paid out 
alongside these benefits and allowed her to use employee benefits to cover other 
everyday living expenses.
On both occasions Mrs B was taking on a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up with 
the repayments couldve been serious for her. And I think having the security that her 
repayments wouldve been made if she was unable to work wouldve been important 
to her.Mrs B says they were in a tight situation financially when they were sold the policies.
Looking at Mrs Bs situation at both sales I can see she didnt have a considerable
amount of disposable income. But the policies provided useful cover and as the
premium for them was paid monthly, she could have cancelled them at any point if
they didnt meet her needs.
As well as checking the policies was suitable for Mrs B, BoS also shouldve given her 
clear information about the them so that she could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take them out. I dont know what steps BoS took to do this and its possible some 
things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mrs Bs decision. I think shed still have bought the policies. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policies was suitable for her.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policies were mis-sold. I know this will 
be disappointing for Mrs B, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman