DRN-1874668
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that the law firm appointed by Santander UK Plc in relation to his re-
mortgage application caused delays. He asks for compensation of about £1,200 for 
additional interest incurred as a result of the delays.
What happened
Mr K applied for a buy to let mortgage with Santander. The product on his existing mortgage 
with another lender was due to expire. Mr K says the law firm appointed by Santander made 
errors which delayed his mortgage completing. There was then a delay of about eight days 
between the Santander mortgage completing and Mr K's previous mortgage being repaid. 
Santander paid compensation of £372 for the interest paid by Mr K while he had two 
mortgages outstanding.
Mr K says this isn't enough, and the delays caused by the law firm's errors cost him about 
£1,200 in interest.
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the mortgage 
completed within a reasonable amount of time. And Santander's offer to refund the 
additional interest was fair.
Mr K didn't agree. He said the time scales weren't reasonable, and regardless of the overall 
time scales completion would have happened sooner if the legal firm acting for Santander 
hadn't made errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K applied for a buy to let mortgage with Santander on 27 September 2018. The product 
on his existing mortgage with another lender was due to expire on 30 September 2018. 
Santander issued a mortgage offer on 17 October 2018. The mortgage completed on 15 
November 2018. Santander says the mortgage completed in seven weeks, which is within its 
usual timescales.
Mr K opted for the free legal service, so Santander appointed conveyancers to act on the re-
mortgage. Mr K says the service was poor and the law firm made errors which delayed 
completion. Santander referred Mr K's concerns to the law firm, which responded directly to 
him. 
There was a delay in Mr K's previous mortgage being redeemed. Despite his Santander 
mortgage completing on 15 November 2018, his previous mortgage wasn't redeemed until 
23 November 2018, some eight days later. Santander paid £372 compensation to Mr K, being the amount of interest applied by Mr K's previous lender between 15 and 23 
November 2018. I think this is fair. 
When Mr K applied to Santander there was only a few days left before his mortgage product 
with his previous lender expired. I understand that Mr K wanted to spend as little time as 
possible on his previous lender's standard variable rate, and so he wanted the re-mortgage 
to complete quickly. I also understand that the time taken for a mortgage to complete can be 
shorter - or longer - than seven weeks. But I don't think it's fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to pay compensation to Mr K when the re-mortgage completed within its usual 
timescales.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Santander UK Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman