DRN-2784772
The complaint
This complaint is about a Goldfish credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1997. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Barclaycards offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr P paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclaycard should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Barclaycards offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Barclaycard made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because to get the cover Mr P had to tick a box for it on the 
application form for his credit. The box is ticked on the copy of the form Barclaycard has 
provided from the sale. And Mr P signed that form which suggests his agreement to its 
contents. And Mr P could have left the section blank or ticked the No box had he not 
wanted the cover.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr P enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr P. Mr P was eligible for the 
cover and there was nothing about his employment status that would have made it 
harder to claim than anyone else. The cover would have paid out in the absence of any 
company sick pay. And Mr P told us that he had no other means he could rely on in the 
event he suffered long term ill health, or if he lost his job. Although Mr P says he had 
three medical conditions some years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the medical exclusion wouldve caused him to change his mind about 
taking out the policy. I say this because we asked Mr P for some extra information on 
this issue and at the time of writing we have received no further submissions from Mr P. 
At the time of writing I have seen no detailed testimony from Mr P about the conditions 
and insufficient evidence of any ongoing issues or significant time off work in the year 
before the sale. So, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that Mr P wouldve acted 
any differently had he known more about the exclusion. And it wasnt too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also 
looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr P would have declined the cover 
had Barclaycard done anything more. 
Overall, I consider that Mr P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclaycard should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclaycard should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Barclaycards offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclaycard didnt tell Mr P about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclaycard and Mr P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Barclaycard didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ps representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr P should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Barclaycard failed to tell Mr P about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr P wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr P 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclaycard not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclaycards failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclaycard to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr P paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr P 
with the policy, Ive concluded above, he would still have taken out if Barclaycard had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Barclaycards payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Barclaycard has told us it has already made this payment. As Barclaycard has already paid 
Mr P compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ps complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr P an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already 
paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman