DRN-3700689
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Santander UK Plc held him liable for a transaction which he says 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise, and that they closed his account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In February 2021, a £10 card payment was made from Mr Bs Santander account to a 
gambling merchant. It originally showed up as being a payment made in a shop. Mr B 
disputed it, saying he hadnt been to that shop that day.
Santander looked at things on their end and found this was actually an online payment, 
made at the same time as Mr Bs other genuine online payments to the same merchant. 
They also raised the dispute with the merchant, who clarified that this was made via Mr Bs 
genuine online gambling account with them, at the same IP address he normally used.
Santander held Mr B liable for the payment. They explained this was actually an online 
payment that had been miscategorised at first. But Mr B felt this was a conspiracy by the 
banks employees.
Following this dispute, Santander gave Mr B notice that they were closing his account. 
Separately, the merchant also closed Mr Bs account with them.
Mr B came to our service. Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold 
the complaint. They explained that the evidence showed the payment was authorised by 
Mr B, and that Santander were allowed to close Mr Bs account if they gave the appropriate 
notice, which they did here.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr B and Santander a provisional decision on 15 August 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I will clarify that this decision is only addressing the issues that Mr B originally 
complained to Santander about and the original case he brought to us  namely, the £10 
disputed payment, and the closing of his bank account. Mr B has now raised a number of 
other issues, such as about the number of cards he had, or about other transactions he now 
thinks may have been fraudulent. He would need to complain to Santander about those 
issues first, and then if needed he can ask for our help with those issues as a separate case 
to this one. But I wont be considering those points here.
Broadly, Santander can hold Mr B liable for the £10 payment in dispute if he authorised it.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence and the evidence from the merchant that 
the payment in question was made online, and not in a shop. It looks like it was processed 
slightly differently to the other online payments Mr B made that same afternoon, and was just 
initially miscategorised. Sometimes, errors like that can happen.
The payment used Mr Bs full correct card details. And Im satisfied that Mr B received this 
card and that it was in his possession, since hes sent us a picture of it and he used it for 
other genuine payments. The payment went to Mr Bs genuine online gambling account, 
which hes used since 2017 for both deposits and the withdrawals of his winnings, and which 
is set up in his name, at his address, using his email address and mobile phone  the same 
contact details he gave us.
The merchant found no signs of unauthorised access to this account, and the payment in 
question was made from the same IP address as Mr B uses for his online banking. It was 
also made just a few minutes after two genuine payments Mr B made to the same account 
with the same merchant on the same day, also online. I have not found any evidence of 
fraud, and there was no benefit for a fraudster to make this gambling payment, as any 
winnings would be paid to Mr B.
Taking everything into account, I find that Mr B authorised this payment.
I appreciate that this payment was miscategorised, and why this caused concern for Mr B. 
But the evidence is clear that this was a payment he made. It looks like it just had an error in 
how it got displayed. There is no evidence of Santanders staff doing anything wrong here.
I also appreciate that Mr B is unhappy with things the merchant said, and that the merchant 
closed his gambling account. It was the merchants decision to close his account with them, 
not Santanders, and I cannot hold Santander responsible for anything the merchant said.
Lastly, I can understand why Mr B might be unhappy his bank account got closed. But just 
like Mr B can choose who he banks with, Santander can also choose who banks with them. 
They can close a customers account so long as they give the proper notice  and I can see 
they gave Mr B enough notice here.
I understand that Mr B wanted to review his historic transactions and send us further 
evidence. It doesnt look like he has a copy of his historic transactions, so Ive sent him a 
copy with this letter. And this is a provisional decision, rather than a final decision, which 
gives Mr B more time to send us any further evidence or arguments. But like I said at the 
start, its worth bearing in mind that I am only considering Mr Bs original complaint in this 
decision  the £10 disputed payment and the closing of his account. I wont consider any of 
his new complaints in this decision, such as about how many cards he had or about other 
payments he now thinks were fraudulent. And if Mr B wants me to consider his further 
evidence or arguments, hell need to make sure we receive them before this provisional 
decisions deadline on 12 September 2022.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
12 September 2022. Santander didnt send anything new. Mr B replied, which Ill talk about 
below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr B raised a number of points. Ive read his 
submissions and listened to his call with one of our managers.
I do need to reiterate that, as before, in this decision I can only address the complaint that 
Mr B originally made to Santander, and the complaint he originally brought to us. That was 
about the £10 disputed payment and the closing of his bank account. Mr B has now 
questioned other payments, and I understand he now feels his statements themselves may 
have been altered. But these are all substantially new points that he would need to raise as 
a separate complaint to this one. I cannot consider those points in this decision.
I will now turn to the points that I can consider.
Mr B reiterated that he didnt authorise the disputed payment. But as I explained before, it 
was made online using his full correct card details, for a card in his possession, via his 
genuine online gambling account, with no signs of unauthorised access, at the same IP 
address Mr B normally used, within a few minutes of Mr Bs genuine payments on the same 
gambling account, and any winnings would have been paid to Mr B. I am satisfied that Mr B 
authorised this payment.
Again, I hope I can reassure Mr B that after looking closely at what happened I have not 
found any evidence of fraud, and there is no evidence of Santanders staff doing anything 
wrong here.
Mr B reiterated that the payment must have been made in a store using a cloned card, and 
he asked for a copy of that stores camera footage. But again, the payment was not made in 
a store or with a physical card  that was just an error in how it was displayed at first. It was 
made online, using Mr Bs genuine card details, on Mr Bs genuine online gambling account, 
in the same way Mr B made his other online gambling payments that same afternoon.
Lastly, Mr B suggested that Santander had made the merchant close his account. But thats 
not the case. It was the merchants decision to close his account with them, not Santanders.
So while I appreciate that this is not the answer that Mr B was hoping for, having taken 
everything into account I still have not found that Santander did anything wrong here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Adam CharlesOmbudsman