DRN-2213669
The complaint
Miss R complains that given her mental health condition J D Williams & Company Limited 
(J D Williams) should refund all the payments she made to her catalogue shopping account 
(account) between 2005 and 2020 totalling approximately £8,000.
What happened
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said:
he had seen no evidence to suggest Miss R was, or had ever been, in financial 
difficulties
he had seen no evidence that J D Williams was aware, or should have been aware, 
of Miss Rs mental health condition until our service made it aware of the same
on being notified of Miss Rs mental health condition J D Williams wrote off the 
account balance, which at the relevant time was over £1,000
he was satisfied all the purchases debited to the account had been made by Miss R
he was satisfied that Miss R had the benefit of all the purchases debited to the 
account
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has shared the details of her condition with us which cant have been easy. But Im 
not persuaded that Miss Rs condition is enough for me to direct J D Williams to refund the 
payments she has made over the last 15 years totalling approximately £8,000, either in full 
or in part.
I say this because like the investigator Im satisfied, on balance, that Miss R made all the 
purchases she was charged for and she either had the benefit of these purchases, or 
returned them. 
Furthermore its my understanding that between 2005 and 2020 Miss R was charged less 
than £800 in interest and late payment fees which is less than the sum written off by 
J D Williams when it took the decision to close Miss Rs account. So in essence, between 
2005 and 2020 Miss R has had the benefit of an account on interest free terms.
I understand Miss R will be disappointed by my decision but I can assure her that Ive 
considered everything she has said and submitted very carefully.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman