DRN-4437455
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) didnt assist him get 
a hire car that he was entitled to through his car insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S took out a car insurance through One Call  a broker. On 5 May 
2023 Mr S was involved in an accident where his car suffered damage. He called One Call 
to look to get support in making use of the guaranteed hire car cover that was provided 
alongside his car insurance policy. He ultimately complained that a hire car wasnt given to 
him and he says hes out of pocket as a result. Hes unhappy that he says he was given 
conflicting information throughout and passed between departments. He wants One Call to 
refund the amount he paid to hire a car.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Ms Ss complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Ms S has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way One Call has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Ms S, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
I note Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt provided with a hire car and he holds One Call 
responsible for this. However, I dont think it is. Ive looked at the terms of the Guaranteed 
Hire Vehicle Policy and this clearly sets out that this policy is provided by the insurer  i.e. 
not by One Call. One Call had a responsibility to explain to Mr S how to use the policy, but it 
wasnt responsible for providing the hire car. However, it did need to give Mr S clear 
information when asked about how to use it.
Mr S has helpfully provided his itemised call list and I can see that, on 7 May 2023, he called 
the telephone number the Guaranteed Hire Vehicle Policy says to call to make a claim. So 
Im satisfied he was aware how to claim off the policy. Mr S has also provided copies of the 
webchat conversations he had with One Call where he was looking for guidance. Ive read 
the transcripts and Im satisfied he was given advice on how to claim through the policy. 
I recognise Mr S has said he was continually passed between departments and companies. 
But I cant hold One Call responsible for anything the insurer did or did not do. If he is 
unhappy with the way the insurer has handled the claim, he should contact the insurer 
directly.
Ultimately, in summary, I havent seen anything to show that One Call, as the broker, has 
given Mr S any false or misleading information thats caused him to be out of pocket.  
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, he raised the following points:
Hed evidenced that hed phoned the claims number numerous times and queried if Id 
seen this. He said every time he called he hoped a different agent would answer the 
phone and provide him with a hire car. He queried why would he call during a stressful 
time for any other reason other than to get a hire car?
He highlighted that the optional hire car cover was a separate product he was provided 
with and wasnt part of his car insurance policy and he queried if I was aware of this.
He said the hire car was an add on product which was sold by One Call as the broker. 
And he said it had nothing to do with the insurer.
He wanted me to set out where he clearly failed in his actions to get the hire car.
He said One Call and the insurer are based in the same building and he said the insurer 
was registered as closed on Companies House. So he said One Call was acting 
fraudulently if it was answering calls on behalf of a closed company.
He said the individual who signed the certificate of insurance on behalf of the insurer is 
also a compliance director for One Call.
One Call didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note all the points Mr S has raised, but they dont change my opinion.
I would like to make it clear that Im not saying Mr S has done anything wrong in the way 
hes looked to get his hire car claim covered, nor am I saying he isnt at fault. Ive not 
considered whether the claim was handled fairly by the insurer or its agents, nor whether it 
should have been paid or not. In this decision, Im simply looking at One Calls actions as a 
broker. Its role, as a broker, was to give Mr S enough information to understand how to 
make a claim and, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied it did. 
I fully appreciate that Mr S telephoned the claim number a number of times and ultimately 
hasnt had his hire car claim covered. But One Call, in its responsibility as a broker, wasnt 
responsible for the handling of the claim  that was the responsibility of the insurer. Mr S will 
need to raise this with the insurer.
I also note Mr S has raised some regulatory concerns about the insurer and its relationship 
with One Call. Im aware that One Call and the insurer are linked, but they are still separate 
legal and regulatory entities and are each individually responsible for their responsibilities. 
And, crucially, the fact that they are linked does not mean One Call is responsible for the 
actions of the insurer. 
Ultimately, Mr S is complaining about the effecting and carrying out of a contract of 
insurance  namely the Guaranteed Hire Vehicle policy. But, as Ive said, regulatory 
responsibility for that rested with the insurer as set out in the policys terms and conditions. 
As the insurer is not a party to this complaint, I cannot comment on its actions (or the actions 
any representative it may have used) in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Guy MitchellOmbudsman