DRN-3139845
The complaint
Mr M complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited should meet a claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Calpe, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Calpe
responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
For the year from early March 2020, Mr M took out a motor policy through an insurance
intermediary. Mr M gave an address in the Midlands. Calpe was the insurance company
responsible for dealing with claims.
In early July 2020, Mr M reported that criminals had robbed him of his car key and the car
outside his mothers address in the North West. Police found the car  after an accident in
which it and two other vehicles had been damaged.
Mr M made a claim to Calpe. In mid-August 2020, Calpe said that  when he had taken out 
the policy - Mr M had deliberately misrepresented his address. So it turned down his claim 
and treated the policy as void from the start.
Mr M complained to Calpe that it was treating him unfairly. By a final response, Calpe turned
down Mr Ms complaint. Calpe said that his failure to provide correct details during the
purchase of his policy was deliberate or reckless. So it was treating the policy as void  but it
was keeping the premium.
Unhappy with that, Mr M brought his complaint to us in late August 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr M
deliberately failed to tell the insurer his new address. The investigator thought that
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) would consider
this to be a careless misrepresentation. The investigator thought that Calpes handling of this
claim had caused Mr M some unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
He recommended that Calpe should:
1. reconsider this claim on the basis that Mr M carelessly misrepresented failing to
update his address; and
2. if it considers the claim should be settled taking into consideration the other issues 
raised, it should settle this claim in line with the remedies set out under CIDRA; and
3. pay Mr M £150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M   
and to Calpe on 25 October 2021. I summarise my findings: 
Mr M recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation of his address when he
took out the policy. So I didnt consider that Calpe treated him unfairly by saying his 
policy was void from the start, declining to pay his claim and keeping what hed paid.
Even if I was mistaken that Mr M was living in the North West when he took out the 
policy, he hadnt told Calpe that he was living in the North West by the time of the 
theft.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Calpe, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr M disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
He didnt say that he was living at his parents since the lockdown. He said he was 
there because they were due to fly back about late March. He wasnt there since 
then; he was coming and going back and forth every 2-3 weeks and he wasnt there 
any more than 3-4 days at a time.
His work place was based in the North West at the time but he was working from 
home way before the lockdown started due to living in the Midlands which he can 
confirm with the work place either by a written letter or can give us their details so we 
can ring them and ask them
Calpe accepts the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law (including CIDRA), regulations and good practice.
Above all, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
From the statement of fact, I find that the intermediary asked Mr M his address. Mr M gave
the address in the Midlands.
He has provided us with some documents showing that address in the Midlands. These
include a mobile phone bill and a media bill both dated May 2020. So they post-date the 
policy. The documents also include an electricity bill dated July 2020, a drivers licence dated
October 2020 and a building society statement dated September 2020. So they post-date
the theft.
Because of their dates, I dont consider that the documents are good evidence that Mr M
was living at the address in the Midlands when he took out the policy. 
I consider that  if Mr M was living in the Midlands from the date of the policy to the date of 
the theft, he wouldve been able to provide more and better documentary evidence.
After the theft, Calpe instructed an investigator to do a (recorded) telephone interview with
Mr M. The investigator drew up Mr Ms statement including the following:I had been living at my parents house since lockdown (end of February 2020)
because they were in [Asia].
They were due to return in April, but the fight was cancelled due to Covid-19.
I then decided to remain at the address until their arrival on 06/07/20.
I think Mr M was mistaken about the date of the first lockdown (which was in late March 
2020). And Mr M says the investigator misquoted him. Nevertheless, I find that Mr M said 
that he had been living in the North West from February 2020 to July 2020.
Ive seen payslips showing that Mr M was  at least from to January to April 2020  working
for a company in the North West. He hasnt provided any evidence to support his statement 
that he was working from home in the Midlands, even before the lockdown.
From the documents, the telephone interview and his workplace, I find it more likely than not
that Mr M was living at the address in the North West when he took out the policy. So I find
that he made a misrepresentation that his address was in the Midlands.
From what Calpe has said, it wouldve charged a higher premium based on the address in
the North West than Mr M paid based on the address in the Midlands. So I find that the
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Mr M mustve known where he was living when he took out the policy. So I consider that he
was at least careless in giving his address in the Midlands. And I find that he gave that
address recklessly as to whether it was true or not.
The policy terms included the following:
Your Duty of Disclosure
The following is a condition precedent to the liability of the Underwriter:
- Duty of disclosure of material facts.
A material fact is anything which affects this insurance.
Duty of disclosure of a material fact continues throughout the life of the Policy. We
will void the Policy if cover has been obtained by any misrepresentation,
misdescription, and use of a fraudulent document or non-disclosure of any material
fact. Failure to disclose material facts could result in your Contract being invalidated/
cancelled, a claim not being paid or difficulty obtaining insurance in the future.
So the policy provided that Mr M had an ongoing duty of disclosure throughout the term of
the policy. But I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable for Calpe to apply that ongoing duty
unless there was a significant change in the risk it was insuring.
Even if Im mistaken that Mr M was living in the North West when he took out the policy, Ive 
found that  he lived in the North West until July 2020. I accept that his parents were
abroad and  because of the Covid-19 pandemic  the airline repeatedly cancelled their
flights home. So Mr M kept extending his stay.
Nevertheless, Mr M was living in the North West for months. And I consider that  if it was a
change at all  it was a significant change in risk. So Mr M shouldve told Calpe.
Ive found that Mr M recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation of his address when he
took out the policy. So I dont consider that Calpe treated him unfairly by saying his policy
was void from the start, declining to pay his claim and keeping what hed paid.
Even if Im mistaken that Mr M was living in the North West when he took out the policy, hehadnt told Calpe that he was living in the North West by the time of the theft.
So  despite his ordeal and his loss  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to 
meet his claim or to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman