DRN-4197300
The complaint
Mr V is complaining that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr V contacted Ageas to say his tenant had reported the flooring had 
lifted in the bathroom and a leak was suspected. Ageas appointed a loss adjustor who 
visited the property, but said that he thought it was clear this damage had been happening 
for a long period of time. He also said Mr Vs agent told him that the property had been 
unoccupied for a long time. So Ageas declined Mr Vs claim on the basis that it doesnt cover 
loss or damage that happens gradually and also where the property had been unoccupied 
for more than 60 days.
In November 2022 Mr V contacted Ageas to advise that a leak had been discovered when 
he had ripped out some kitchen units. And he said he wanted to claim for the resulting 
damage. Ageas first said it seemed the damage was related to the claim hed made before. 
Mr V disputed that it was the same claim. Ageas arranged for another inspection but 
concluded that the leak had been ongoing for a long time. It also reiterated that it believed 
the property had been unoccupied for a long time. However, it acknowledged it had delayed 
advising him of this and offered him £75 in compensation. Mr V didnt think Ageas was being 
fair and referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened in detail. It became apparent that Mr V had 
a tenancy agreement with a third party firm  who I shall refer to M. M would arrange for 
refugees or asylum seekers to stay in the property on a short-term basis. And, under the 
terms of the tenancy agreement, M would inspect the property once a month. She contacted 
M to understand when it had last arranged for someone to live in the property. But M didnt 
reply to the investigator.
The investigator then sent her opinion on this complaint and she didnt think Ageas had been 
unfair. She said Mr Vs agent had told Ageas at the start that the property hadnt been lived 
in for a long time. And she said she hadnt seen anything to show that the property had been 
occupied. So she didnt think it was unfair for Ageas to decline the claim.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator and said the following:
He said M were the tenants of the property and they visited the property at least once a 
month. And provided an email from M which he thinks shows it was occupied.
He disputes his agent said that the property had been unoccupied and he said there was 
a witness that would support this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
I should first set out that Im not considering Ageass decision to decline the first claim Mr V 
made as thats already been considered by this Service before in a separate complaint. In 
this decision Im considering Ageass handling of the claim he made in November 2022.
Theres no dispute that theres been a slow leak on one of the pipes in Mr Vs property. The 
policy covers loss or damage arising from a leak, but it doesnt cover it where the property 
has been unoccupied for more than 60 days. The policy also doesnt cover damage that 
happens gradually. Ageas believes this leak has been happening for a long time and that the 
property had been unoccupied before the leak was discovered. 
I note Mr V disputes that the damage he reported in November 2022 is linked to the previous 
incident. But the damage is in the same area and Im satisfied its most likely to be linked to 
the same event.
Its been widely accepted that this was a slow leak. So I dont think it can be disputed that 
the resulting damage has happened gradually. The issue for me to decide here is whether 
its fair for Ageas to rely on these exclusions.
As I said, its clear that this damage has happened over time, but where a consumer has 
accidental damage cover, Ill also think about whether it could have been reasonably 
apparent that this damage was occurring  i.e. was the appearance of the damage sudden 
and unexpected. In this case Mr V had accidental damage, but Im not persuaded this 
damage would have become suddenly apparent. 
I note the report by Ageass loss adjustor sets out the following:
During our site visit we were able to see the extent of the damage caused by this supposed 
leak, however the damage is not consistent with a one-off leak and is more likely due to 
ongoing issues with the shower tray.
The joists are rotten, and the internal wall is sagging. This has been ongoing for some years 
and not a one-off incident.
Ive considered this, but also looked at the photographs the loss adjustor has taken from the 
inspection which I think do support his conclusions. I think the photographs show, in addition 
to other issues, clear damage to the walls and paintwork. I think that the damage would have 
been reasonably apparent for a period of time before Mr V reported it to Ageas. I recognise 
that M reported that the tenant had noticed the damage as a result of some lifting of the 
flooring within the bathroom. But, based on the report of the damage, and also the 
photographs I cant reasonably say that it wouldnt have been reasonably apparent before 
this that there was an existing issue.
Given all this, I cant reasonably say that it was unfair for Ageas to say that the damage has 
happened gradually over time. And the policy doesnt cover this scenario.
Im conscious that Ageas has also said the claim isnt covered because the property was 
unoccupied. But I dont I need to make a finding on this given I dont think it was unfair for it 
to say the claim isnt covered as a result of it happening gradually. 
Finally, I do note that there was an initial delay in the handling of Mr Vs claim because it 
said it was the same claim Mr V had made before. I dont think this was necessarily an 
unreasonable conclusion given the location of the damage and that Im satisfied it is linked to 
the original damage. But I agree Ageas could have been clearer here and there were some delays. However, I dont think Mr V has lost out because of this. So I think the £75 its 
offered is more than fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Ageas Insurance 
Limiteds compensation offer of £75 is fair compensation. It should pay this to Mr V directly if 
it hasnt already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman