DRN-1901993
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
against him and the advice it gave. 
References to Admiral include its agents. 
What happened
Mr A held motor insurance with Admiral between September 2016 and September 2017. 
During this time, Admiral received a claim from a third-party insurer (TPI) alleging that Mr A 
had been involved in an accident.
The TPI said Mr A had reversed out of a parking space and hit another vehicle around a 3 
hours drive from where Mr A lived. 
Admiral discussed the matter with Mr A who denied being in the accident. So Admiral carried 
out further investigations, including having an engineers report done on his car, and was 
satisfied that Mr A hadnt been involved in the accident.
Admiral continued to send correspondence to the TPI but wasnt getting any reply. Following 
this, without any reply, the TPI issued court proceedings against Mr A. 
Admiral called Mr A to explain this to him and talk about the next steps. It said it was just as 
surprised as Mr A that the TPI had issued proceedings and it was 100% behind him. They 
went on to explain that he had two options. The first was to help Admiral defend the claim by 
attending court with their solicitors but that he needed to be on board with this and willing to 
go to a court hearing which Admiral described as quite a bit of pressure. Mr A said that he 
didnt want to go to court as he had nothing to do with the incident and wasnt involved in 
what was someone elses fraudulent action.
The second option Admiral described was to let it settle the claim but they explained theyd 
reinstate his no claims bonus (NCB). Mr A sought some reassurances from Admiral about 
this option and, as a result of the discussions in this call, Admiral settled the TPIs claim. This 
was in 2017.
Mr A renewed his policy elsewhere for the next two years but came back to Admiral for the 
third year after this, in 2019. It was at this point that Mr A says he was told for the first time 
he had a fault claim against him which had been recorded in 2017 and related to the third 
party claim. Mr A wasnt happy as he says he was never told back in 2017 that choosing the 
second option - allowing Admiral to settle the claim - would leave him with a fault claim. 
It also became clear to Mr A that Admiral hadnt reinstated his NCB after the claim was 
settled as they had said they would. Mr A raised a complaint about these issues. 
Admiral upheld Mr As complaint in part and offered £50 for not reinstating his NCB - they 
accepted this is what he was told on the call and what shouldve happened. They did, 
however, explain that they had no option but to settle the TPI claim as Mr A stated he didnt 
want to attend court. Whilst they accepted that the call handler couldve been more 
transparent and given a clearer explanation of what settling the matter meant for him, they 
felt he only assured Mr A that it wouldnt affect his NCB. So, Admiral said they wouldnt now 
look to remove the claim from any of their records or external databases. They also 
explained that, as Mr A had not declared the claim or his reduced NCB to his new insurer, 
they didnt feel hed suffered financially as a result.
Mr A was unhappy with this so he brought his complaint to our service. To put matters right 
hed like Admiral to either remove the claim completely or pay him the difference in what his 
premium price will be as it stands compared with the cost if he didnt have the claim 
registered against him.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr As complaint and he upheld it. He explained 
that he doesnt feel Admiral explained clearly enough to Mr A what the consequences were 
of choosing the second option. This is supported by Mr As actions in not declaring the claim 
or loss of NCB with his new insurer. Our investigator also explained that he agrees with 
Admiral that Mr A hasnt lost out financially due to these actions because he didnt declare 
the claim or reduce his NCB. So, to put things right, he asked Admiral to refund the 
increased premium charge for his current 2019 policy with Admiral and also to adjust the 
2017 claim record from fault to non-fault.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators opinion. The matter was then passed to me for a 
decision. Whilst I agreed that the investigator has reached a fair outcome, I thought the 
redress needed to be amended slightly to put things right in this matter. Mr A accepted the 
proposed redress but Admiral didnt agree. It said Mr A was fully aware of the implications 
and refused to assist in the defence. It also said no money is due to Mr A under the 2019 
premium as he told them he had 5 years NCB but now it has been reinstated taking him up 
to 7 years NCB. However, it did agree to pay £200 as a gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here but dont think the 
proposed redress does enough to put things right in this matter. Ill explain why below.
As mentioned above, Admirals claims handler contacted Mr A on 25 August 2017 to explain 
that the TPI solicitors had issued court proceedings against him. He went onto explain the 
the first option and say that Mr A needed to be on board with this and willing to go to a court 
hearing which he described as quite a bit of pressure. Mr A very quickly explains that he 
doesnt want to go to court or be involved when it was someone elses fraudulent activity. 
The call handler explains Im just as surprised as you are that theyve come back and they 
want to take it further. Admiral confirm again that they accept Mr A wasnt involved in the 
accident and are 100% behind him in saying that he wasnt involved in the incident. So I 
dont agree its fair to say that Mr A refused to assist or cooperate in the defence. 
When discussing the second option - settle the claim - Admiral advise him that that because 
this would be a non-involvement claim, itd be more cost effective to deal with the claim 
than to take it to court and defend it. Even so, they confirm theyd allow Mr As NCB to 
continue unaffected as he was not at fault. Mr A explains that the second option is what he would like to do. During this call, Admiral 
repeats on a number of occasions that the second option  settling the claim  is more cost 
effective for it. Mr A and Admiral have the following conversation.
Mr A If youre going to do that and my no claims bonus is going to be back and its 
not going to affect my insurance then my, you know, my insurance records; 
then its fine with me. 
Admiral Yes, well obviously once the claim is closed down well allow everything to 
run through so there wont be an effect there for you on the bonus.
Mr A Ok, so its not to going to affect my, you know, when I [] or when Im 
renewing it with you guys next, next month or whenever its not going to affect 
that
Admiral Well speak to renewals on it cause obviously it probably will still be open by 
the time renewal comes round but obviously if we advise them the case is 
non-involvement, were running it through they should be onboard with it and 
adjust, adjust that for you, ok.
Its quite clear in this conversation that an important factor in Mr As decision is whether 
settling the claim will impact him  from a renewals perspective as well as in relation to his 
NCB. Admiral are very reassuring to Mr A that the impact on him would be sorted out even if 
there was still an open claim.
Having listened to this call, and highlighting the above in particular, I dont think Admiral have 
done enough here to advise Mr A of the potential consequences of settling the claim rather 
than defending it. The second option was presented as the more favourable with no negative 
consequences for Admiral or Mr A.
Admiral are clear in this call that they accept and support fully that Mr A wasnt involved in 
the alleged accident with the TPI. So I wouldve expected them to go onto explain that the 
option of going to court wouldve been the more beneficial option for him. There is no 
mention of the potential detriment that choosing option two - settling the claim - will cause to 
Mr A. Admiral also fails to explain that settling the claim will result in a fault claim being 
recorded against Mr A which would likely lead to higher insurance premiums in the future. 
So, I dont think Admiral did enough here to give Mr A the opportunity to make an informed 
decision. 
Mr A says that, if hed been told the claim would be recorded against him if it was settled, he 
wouldve gone to court even if he had to ask for more time to arrange this. Whilst I can 
appreciate the benefit of hindsight that Mr A now has, looking at everything that we have 
been given and the calls Ive listened to, Im persuaded that its more likely Mr A would have 
chosen the first option if Admiral had explained the options to him as it shouldve because I 
dont think Mr A wouldve been happy to accept the financial impact of choosing the second 
option if this had been properly explained to him.
Putting things right
I think that Admiral need to put things right for Mr A. To do this, Admiral should: 
1. Change the claim record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) to reflect 
a notification only claim and show that Mr As NCB was allowed. 
2. Give any adjustment that this makes to his current 2019 premium back to him as a 
refund based on the 2019 premium and his now reinstated NCB.3. Give a letter to Mr A that he can present to future insurers if he chooses to renew his 
policy elsewhere. This letter should explain that Mr A doesnt have to declare this 
notification only claim as its a claim Admiral shouldnt have paid on the basis that the 
evidence it had supports what Mr A has said which is that it isnt a genuine claim 
against him.
Admiral also made an error by not reinstating the NCB once the claim had been settled and 
closed. They have, however, now corrected this and put Mr As NCB back to the amount of 
years it shouldve been.
Having considered the above, and the inconvenience this has and is likely to cause to Mr A, 
Admiral should pay Mr A compensation of £200 in total for the distress and inconvenience in 
this matter. This is a further £150 in additional to the £50 it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited should:
Change the claim on CUE from 2017 to a notification only and show that Mr As NCB 
was allowed.
Pay Mr A any refund that this change makes to his current years premium plus 8% 
simple interest from the date he made the payment to when the refund is given.
Give Mr A a letter explaining the situation that he can pass on to future insurers as 
detailed above.
Increase the total compensation awarded to £200 in total, including the £50 it has 
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 

Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman