DRN-3163128
The complaint
Mr D and Ms D complain that Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) wont refund the money they lost in 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr D says that he met someone Ill refer to as H on a flight in September 2014. H discussed 
his involvement in diamond mines in Africa. He gave Mr D the impression of a business 
cloaked in secrecy. A few months later H put a business proposition to Mr D which he 
declined, as it involved an illegal business.
Mr D and H became friends and Mr D met Hs wife. Ill refer to her as G. They talked a lot 
about diamond mining and Mr D said he was interested in getting involved. He said in his 
police statement H asked him to pay G £40,000 for an introductory package and later 
£50,000 in cash to buy a diamond to sell. He then made a CHAPS payment of £288,000 to 
G to invest in the diamond business. Given the nature of the business and the people 
involved Mr D was told it was important he didnt tell anyone (except Ms D) about the mining 
business. 
Mr D says that he has been scammed by H and G and the diamond company they referred 
to was fake. Over time Mr D received some returns but not the kind of profits he was led to 
believe. In 2018 he told AIB he was the victim of a scam. Mr D was advised to report the 
matter to the police, but no charges have been brought against H and G and no funds 
returned. Mr D and Ms D would like AIB to refund the money they have lost.
When Mr D contacted AIB to report a scam in 2018 it said it would cooperate in the police 
investigation. Then when Mr D complained to this service AIB contacted the bank that 
received Mr Ds funds but was told that no funds remained and that the majority of the funds 
were used up within three to six months. Mr D thinks AIB should have taken this step when 
he first contacted it in 2018.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ds complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
said that AIB had asked Mr D questions about the payments and he provided plausible 
answers. In respect of the £288,000 payment the investigator felt that AIB either didnt ask 
enough questions or record his answers in sufficient detail. But even if it had done more, the 
scam wouldnt have been uncovered and the payment wouldnt have been stopped. This 
was because Mr D had been totally taken in by H and G, had a relationship with them, had 
been to Africa and had met various diamond experts. Mr D was also convinced he needed to 
keep the project secret.  
Mr D and Ms D didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, they said:
- AIB didnt complete any checks to protect them prior to making the payments.
- Had AIB asked appropriate questions Mr D and Ms D wouldnt have been able to 
provide plausible answers as they had insufficient knowledge. 
- AIB didnt ask for any proof or documentation. Had it done so it would have been 
clear Mr D didnt have a company and the investment opportunity was a scam. 
- AIBs records say Mr D told it he was investing in his own company, but the payment 
was made to an individual.
- The investigator referred to the relationship Mr D had with the scammer, but Ms D 
didnt have such a relationship. And when they went into branch to make the 
£288,000 payment, she was very nervous. So if AIB had taken her aside and asked 
any questions about the business they said they were investing in shed have been 
unable to answer. 
- AIB should have checked the beneficiary account before making the payment. 
- The investigator made some factual errors in his opinion  Mr D paid an individual 
not a company, he hadnt received any funds prior to making the payment of 
£288,000, he wasnt provided with documentation and only made one trip to Africa. 
- AIBs response to the complaint was that it was better to hand the documents to the 
police for a criminal investigation, but it should have contacted the receiving bank 
straight away. 
- The idea that had questions been asked the scam wouldnt have been uncovered is 
flawed. AIB only needed knowledge of scams and didnt need to know the intricate 
nature of the world of diamonds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to consider relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be 
good industry practice at the time. 
Although Mr D has referred to transfers totalling £40,000 to G and to a cash payment of the 
same amount or more which he handed over, I can only see the following payments on his 
statements:
17/03/15 - £10,000 online transfer to G from Mr and Ms Ds joint account
17/03/15 - £10,000 cash withdrawal from Mr Ds sole account
03/12/15 - £288,000 branch payment to G from Mr D and Ms Ds joint account
The investigator put this to Mr D, and he agreed that these are the amounts he paid to G and 
H.  
Its difficult to see whether Mr D was involved in a business enterprise that failed or broke 
down, or was the victim of a scam. To conclude Mr D was the victim of a scam Id need to be 
persuaded that H and G intentionally set out to deceive Mr D from the time he made the first 
payment. Mr D initially made a £10,000 payment which was described in the agreement he 
was given at the time as a non-refundable part payment of £40,000 for introducing Mr D to 
the diamond trade. Its clear from Mr Ds statement to the police that some introductions 
were made, and that Mr D travelled to Africa with H. Mr D also told the police that he asked 
to be part of the enterprise. And the fact that G paid over £40,000 to Mr D between July 
2016 and July 2017 isnt normal behaviour for a scammer. These payments also seem to be 
broadly in line with the agreement reached when Mr D paid G £288,000 - which refers to a 
profit of approximately USD 40,000 to be paid to Mr D.
I dont think I need to make a finding on whether Mr and Ms D were the victims of a scam 
though. This is because even if I accept that they were this doesnt automatically mean AIB should refund them. I need to consider the extent to which AIB can be considered liable for 
their loss. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. In 2015, there were some circumstances where a bank 
should have taken additional steps before processing a payment to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm. For example, there were some guidelines which should 
have been followed when older or vulnerable customers asked to make unusually large cash 
withdrawals or where someone appeared to be telling them what to do. 
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to 
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a 
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes 
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify 
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was set up to provide protection for customers 
who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, and also to reduce the occurrence 
of APP fraud. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether AIB acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr D and Ms D when they requested the payments I have discussed above, 
based on the expectations of banks in 2015. I also need to consider whether AIB did all that 
it ought to have done when Mr D reported that the payments were fraudulent. Having done 
so, Im not persuaded AIB should refund Mr D and Ms D the amount they lost. Ill explain 
why. 
As I have set out above, in 2015 when the payments were made there was little guidance or 
established industry practice in respect of authorised push payment (APP) scams and banks 
didnt have the knowledge they now have about how fraudsters operate. So the expectations 
of banks werent the same as they are today. I cannot apply current industry practice and 
standards to losses that occurred in 2015. 
The first £10,000 was made online. AIB has said that given the passage of time it no longer 
holds records, but that Mr D was asked if he knew who he was paying, and he assured AIB 
that everything was alright. I consider AIB did enough here and that even if it had asked Mr 
D further questions, hed have been able to give plausible but false reasons for the payment. 
Mr D has explained the diamond business is extremely secretive, so Im not persuaded hed 
have told AIB about the real reason for the payment. 
I turn now to the £10,000 cash withdrawal. AIBs notes say that Mr D was withdrawing
funds to buy kitchen materials. I consider AIB acted reasonably in asking Mr D about the 
reason for the payment and that the explanation given by Mr D was reasonable. If Mr D was 
having a new kitchen fitted, he may have needed to pay a builder for materials. Mr Ds 
recorded profession also means that the reason given to AIB was believable. So I dont 
consider Mr Ds response should have caused AIB any concern or that it was under any 
obligation to take any further steps in respect of this payment.
I turn now to the £288,000 payment in December 2015. AIBs notes show the funds came 
from a house sale and record the following in respect of this transaction:
CUSTOMER MAKING A £288K PAYMENT FOR AN INVESTMENT IN HIS OWN 
BUSINESS.
MONEY WILL BE COMING BACK AS THIS IS A SHORT TERM INVESTMENT.I accept this was a significant and unusual payment. Its clear that AIB discussed it with Mr D 
at the time and kept a brief record of what was discussed. There were no obvious red flags 
that I think should have led AIB to have any concerns about the payment and investment 
scams werent as well known to bank staff as they are today. The explanation given by Mr D 
was plausible and AIB wasnt required to ask the sort of questions it would be expected to if 
the request was made today. I also dont consider the fact Mr D was paying an individual 
hed previously paid to have meant he wasnt investing in a business he was involved in. 
But even if in 2015 AIB was under a duty to intervene and ask Mr D proportionate questions 
about the payment I dont consider the scam would have unravelled. This payment was 
made over a year after Mr D first met H, and in the intervening time he had built up a 
relationship with H and his wife G. From the beginning Mr D was advised that given the 
nature of the business and individuals involved it was imperative that the diamond business 
was kept secret. Breaking this code of secrecy could lead to danger if the wrong people 
found out. Mr D has discussed this in phone calls with AIB. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider Mr D would have revealed the true reason for his payment whatever AIB asked 
him. My conclusion is supported by the fact Mr D didnt provide truthful answers when the 
previous payment was made. I consider Mr D would have been able to give a false 
explanation of the nature of the investment in his business and that in 2015 AIB didnt need 
Mr D to provide documentation to prove where his funds were going. 
I should also say that there has never been an obligation on a bank to check that the 
account funds are being transferred to isnt involved in criminal activity as Mr D has 
suggested. AIBs obligation was to send the funds to the sort-code and account number 
provided and this is what it did. 
Finally, even if I was considering this complaint under regulations and codes that came into 
force after the payments were made, I wouldnt be able to ignore the fact that Mr D would 
have to bear most, if not all, the responsibility for his own loss. He entered into a business 
relationship with individuals he knew were involved in illegal activities and took on a risk in 
doing so. Mr D also made the £288,000 payment without seeing returns from his previous 
payments.
Ive also considered whether AIB acted reasonably when Mr D reported the loss. Whilst I 
think AIB should have contacted the bank that received Mr Ds and Ms Ds funds in 2018 I 
dont believe doing so would have made a difference in the circumstances of this case. Mr D 
made the payments in March and December 2015, so I consider it highly unlikely that in 
2018 any funds remained. AIB has also confirmed that the beneficiary bank told it funds 
were removed three to six months after they were lodged  so well before Mr D contacted 
AIB.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mr D and Ms Ds loss, I consider AIB acted reasonably in 
not refunding the funds they paid to G. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman