DRN-4206223
The complaint
Mrs S says Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed her bank and credit card accounts and didnt 
provide adequate reasons for doing so.
What happened
Mrs S held a bank account and credit card account with Lloyds for several years. In 
July 2022, Lloyds wrote to her to say it would be closing her accounts in two months in line 
with its terms and conditions. It told her that, during that time, the accounts would be blocked 
and no further transactions would be allowed. 
After Mrs S complained, Lloyds confirmed its decision was made following a review of her 
accounts.
 
Unhappy with Lloydss response, Mrs S complained to this service. She said inadequate 
reasons had been provided by Lloyds and that she wasnt happy with how Lloyds had 
communicated with her about the closure. She thought at first that she was being scammed. 
Mrs S wanted Lloyds to reinstate the accounts and pay her compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be 
upheld. They believed Lloyds had acted fairly given the account terms and conditions and 
that it hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mrs S was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Among other things, Mrs S denied that she posed a risk 
to Lloydss business, as shed been led to believe, and said shed been adversely affected 
by its actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mrs S to discover that her accounts had 
been blocked ahead of them being closed without her agreement. She clearly feels shes 
done nothing wrong, and that Lloydss actions simply arent justified. 
On the other hand, Im mindful that, just as a customer can close an account with a bank 
without reason, there isnt anything to stop a bank from doing likewise. As long as that bank 
does so fairly and in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Ive reviewed the applicable account and credit card terms and conditions and they explain 
Lloyds will write to the consumer at least two months before closing their account (unless 
there are reasons for it to close immediately). They dont suggest that Lloyds must provide a 
reason every time an account is closed. From experience, such terms are commonly found 
in personal banking and credit card agreements, and I dont think theyre inherently unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Based on the available information, Im satisfied Lloyds provided Mrs S with two months 
notice before closing the accounts as it was required to.
As such, I dont think Lloyds treated Mrs S unfairly in closing the accounts as it did. 
Ive not considered the concerns Mrs S has raised more recently about a payment being due 
on her credit card or any effects on her credit report. As one of our investigators has 
explained to her, those issues arose after Lloyds issued its final response and dont fall 
within the scope of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman