DRN-4335247
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy Wise Payments Limited wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Ms H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company, for simplicity I will 
refer to Ms H throughout this decision, even when referencing what her representatives have 
said on her behalf.
Ms H was told about an investment opportunity by some of her work colleagues who had 
already invested, and after speaking to what she believed to be genuine investment brokers 
she agreed to make a small initial investment. Ms H says she carried out some research of 
her own and was satisfied that the investment firm she was using was legitimate.
Ms H was encouraged to open an account with Wise to make her payments through, the 
scammers guided her through this process using remote access software. 
Ms H says that she saw some initial small returns on her investment, and was able to make 
a small withdrawal, and so agreed to invest further funds in the scheme. In total Ms H made 
seven payments totalling over £140,000 from her Wise account. However, when she tried to 
withdraw her funds from the investment scheme, she was told shed need to make 
significant further deposits before she could make any withdrawal. At this stage Ms H 
became suspicious and realised she had been the victim of a scam. She contacted Wise on 
20 October 2021 to tell it what had happened. Wise was able to retrieve £51,765 of the 
funds, which were returned to Ms Hs Wise account, but ultimately it told her it would not be 
able to refund the rest of the money she had lost. It did though offer to pay her £150 to 
recognise that it could have handled her concerns better
Ms H was unhappy with Wises response and so she referred her complaint to our service. 
On reviewing Ms Hs complaint Wise stated that the payments were not unusual and so it did 
not consider it could have prevented Ms Hs loss. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and ultimately they felt that Wise 
should have stepped in to question Ms H about the second payment she made  which was 
for £25,000. They felt that, if Wise had done so, then the scam would have been uncovered 
and at least some of Ms Hs loss could have been prevented. However, the Investigator also 
felt that Ms H should bear some responsibility for what had happened. They did not consider 
she had done enough to ensure the firm she was dealing with was legitimate, and felt there 
were some red flags which should have indicated to her that something may be amiss.
So our Investigator recommended that Wise refund 50% of the payments made from the 
second payment onwards, plus some interest.
Ms H accepted the Investigators findings, Wise did not. It maintains that the payments were 
not unusual given the limited account history it had for Ms H, and so does not agree that the 
payments should have been flagged. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not disputed that Ms H authorised the payments that are in dispute. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means Ms H is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Ms H was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, Ms H is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Wise acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Ms H, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ms Hs account was opened at the instruction of the scammers, so it was a new account with 
no previous transaction history for Wise to compare payments to. The first payment made by 
Ms H was for £5,000, but given that it had no transaction history for Ms Hs account, Wise 
would have been relying on generic indicators of fraud risk when this payment was made. 
Wise would have had no idea of what might be normal for Ms Hs account at that time, and 
while I appreciate that £5,000 feels like a lot of money, I dont think this was high enough to 
have triggered further questions from Wise at that stage. So I consider that Wise acted 
reasonably in allowing this payment to be made without further questioning.
I do though think that the next payment of £25,000 should have flagged as potentially 
suspicious to Wise. Given the high value of this payment, and the risk that allowing such a 
high payment to go through could present, I think Wise should have contacted Ms H directly 
to ask her some questions before allowing this payment to go through.
Had Wise done this, then I think it is more likely than not that the scam would have been 
uncovered. Ms H doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, 
so I think that if Wise had asked what the payments were for then she would have been 
open and honest. And what Ms H would likely have told Wise about what she was doing 
should have rung alarm bells for Wise, given that these types of investment scam are 
becoming increasingly common. Wise could then have explained the risk Ms H was 
exposing herself to, and I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been 
broken and Ms H wouldnt have proceeded with the payments. So I think Wise could have 
prevented the losses Ms H incurred from the second payment onwards.
I do, however, agree with our Investigators finding that Ms H ought to have thought twice 
before investing such large sums of money. The FCA issued an alert about the company 
Ms H was investing with before she made the last four payments, and there were issues with 
the way the scammers were operating that I think should have indicated to Ms H that she 
might not be dealing with a legitimate investment firm. For example, she was promised an unrealistic cash bonus, she communicated with them on WhatsApp rather than through a 
more formal channel, and she was told shed made large profits in a short space of time that 
should really have been consider too good to be true. So with this in mind, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Ms H to bear responsibility for 50% of the loss.
Ive also thought about whether Wise could have done more to recover the funds after Ms H 
reported the fraud. Im satisfied that Wise did what it could, it contacted the receiving bank 
quickly once it had been able to properly discuss the fraud with Ms H. I also know, from 
experience of these kinds of cases, that scammers invariably will move the proceeds of their 
scams on very quickly, to avoid them being recalled. So any delay in a scam being reported, 
as there was here, means that the prospect of recovery is very slim. With all of this in mind, I 
dont consider that Wise could have done more to recover the money that Ms H has lost.
So, in summary, I consider when Ms H made the second transfer, Wise could have done 
more to protect her from the risk of financial harm. Had Wise contacted Ms H directly and 
asked some open questions about what was happening, Im persuaded it is more likely than 
not the scam would have come to light, and Ms H wouldnt have lost out on the £136,765 
she then went on to transfer. I do though consider that Ms H also shares responsibility for 
her loss here. So I consider it fair and reasonable for Wise to refund 50% of that amount to 
Ms H (minus the £51,765 that has already been returned to her Wise account), along with 
interest at our standard compensatory rate of 8% on the portion of the £25,000 payment that 
is being refunded, as this was the only money that came from her personal accounts, the 
other funds were from third parties that Ms H borrowed the funds from.
Wise, by its own admission, did not handle Ms Hs complaint as well as it could have. And as 
a result, it offered to pay her £150 to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused. I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Wise should:
- Refund 50% the £136,765 (less any sums that have already been refunded).
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the portion of the £25,000 payment that is 
being refunded, calculated from the date of that payment until this complaint is 
settled.
- Pay Ms H the £150 compensation it has offered
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Wise Payments Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman