DRN-3787691
The complaint
Miss R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes) 
prevented her from paying the optional final payment to acquire her car by credit card on the 
phone when their website would not process it. 
What happened
A huge amount of detail has been provided here, for what is in essence a very simple issue. 
I intend to focus on the key issues here, and not to comment on every point raised. Similarly, 
I will focus on the relevant parts of the timeline. 
Miss R acquired a car on a hire purchase (Personal Contract Purchase) agreement from 
Mercedes in May 2018. It was a four year agreement, with 47 monthly payments, followed 
by a final optional payment of £9,700. 
In May 2022, Miss R attempted to make the optional final payment. She wanted to do this 
via a credit card but was unable to do this successfully on Mercedes website. When she 
called up to arrange it over the phone, she was told they couldnt accept credit card 
payments for this over the phone. Miss R has told us that it was suggested that as a 
responsible lender, they werent prepared to accept credit to pay off credit.
She complained to Mercedes, who didnt uphold her complaint. They said she could make 
any card payment on the website, but their processes didnt currently allow this on the 
phone. 
Unhappy with this, Miss R brought her complaint to our service. An investigator investigated 
the complaint, and initially did not uphold it. They said Mercedes policies were for them to 
not accept credit card payments for this purpose, and our service couldnt tell them to 
change their policies.  
However, Miss R highlighted that Mercedes would in fact take credit card payments on their 
website for this purpose, but their website wasnt working. After some attempts to get this to 
work over the website which were unsuccessful, a second view was issued by the 
Investigator in October 2022, upholding the complaint. They said Mercedes should take a 
credit card payment from Miss R so she could pay off the final payment and pay her £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Mercedes accepted this, however Miss R didnt. She said that now, she had suffered further 
costs she wanted considered. She said she would have had to take a personal loan to clear 
the balance, which would have cost her more money and which she should be compensated 
for, and she also provided some details of Mortgage deals she had wanted to take, which 
due to the passage of time with no resolution on this issue, were no longer available, and 
she said she would now have to pay more for a mortgage. She wanted these considered 
and for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss R was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
Mercedes have accepted now that they need to process a credit card payment for Miss R. 
Their responses have been slightly unclear during this complaint, which is why I think Miss R 
feels they have been lying to our service. I dont agree that this has happened, however. 
They made clear in their original final response letter (FRL) when Miss R complained that 
she could make any sort of card payment on their website. 
Our initial response from the investigator suggested that Mercedes had said they didnt 
accept credit card payments at all, which unfortunately wasnt accurate. Mercedes had said 
on more than one occasion that they would accept any card payment on their website. This 
was highlighted by Miss R, and this led to attempts to arrange for the payment to be made 
by credit card on the website. 
When this wasnt possible, the investigator upheld the complaint, and asked Mercedes to 
arrange for Miss R to be able to make the card payments as she wanted to. Mercedes have 
already agreed that they will do this. 
I agree that this is fair. Mercedes have been unclear with both Miss R and our service about 
the circumstances here and what the problem was. I understand the principle of not 
encouraging customers to repay debt with further debt, but this doesnt appear to be a 
Mercedes policy. As Miss R has pointed out, they said they would take a card payment on 
their website but wouldnt do it over the phone. This doesnt feel fair, particularly when it 
doesnt appear that the website would allow Miss R to make the payment. 
Miss R wants me to consider further costs incurred due to this error, but Im not persuaded 
by her arguments. Firstly, she has said that if they wouldnt take a card payment, she would 
have to take a loan, which would cost her more in interest that a 0% credit card. However, 
shes also not shown us that shes actually taken a personal loan and done this. Indeed, as 
far as I am aware, she hasnt had to make a payment yet, as Mercedes were awaiting the 
outcome of this complaint. 
As I am instructing Mercedes to allow her to make the payment by card, her point isnt valid. 
She has suffered no financial loss from taking a loan, as she hasnt taken one. She wants 
Mercedes to be punished for lying, but my role is not to punish businesses. I will consider the 
impact on a consumer and compensate them accordingly, but my role is not to take punitive 
actions against a business for any failings. 
Secondly, Miss R has provided details of mortgage rates she says she had access to and 
compared them to the rates available further down the line. Shes said the delays and errors 
by Mercedes have caused her to lose out on mortgage deals she can no longer obtain. Ive looked at the evidence shes provided, and it doesnt show an application thats been 
checked and accepted at any point. There is a front page from an agreement in principle 
from June 2022, which doesnt show a mortgage product or rate. It also doesnt show what 
debts have or havent been included when it was produced. It does say however that for an 
application, they would need Proof that debts have been settled to include the balance and 
provider.  
As well as this, Miss R has sent some screenshots of mortgage rates available, which she 
says show the difference from August 2022 to October 2022. But there are no dates on the 
documents or screen shots to show when they were from, and as they detail she was 
looking to buy a house, I also have to consider the difficulties with this process and the 
pitfalls which could ensue and prevent a purchase from going ahead. 
I cant reasonably say therefore that Miss R has suffered any losses on a mortgage based 
on the evidence shes provided. She doesnt appear to have taken out a mortgage or had a 
formal offer of a mortgage, or a mortgage application declined, at any point. With no clear 
evidence of her suffering any loss, I cant reasonably expect Mercedes to pay to 
compensate her. 
However, to ensure fairness, I have gone on to consider the further details shes provided 
about the application process, to ensure I have considered all potential issues here. 
Miss R has said that the mortgage lender confirmed to her in August 2022 that if she had to 
take a personal loan to pay the final payment on the car, her mortgage application would be 
declined based on affordability. 
Miss R gave us some of the details of the loan she would have to take and said it was 
offered in late August 2022 at 3.7% APR over five years. That equates to a monthly payment 
of around £150 per month.
However, if she put or intended to put the final payment on a credit card, that information 
would also have to be disclosed in a mortgage interview and would appear on her credit file 
and would be considered as a debt needing regular monthly payments to service it. The 
money owing for the final car payment would need to be disclosed in a mortgage application. 
Generally, mortgage applications will use an assumed figure to work out the percentage of a 
credit card balance which needs paying monthly, not the actual figure. I am aware that the 
particular card Miss R intended to use might have had a minimum payment figure of 1% per 
month. However, in my experience, a mortgage lender will often use an assumed figure of 
around 5%. 5% of an £8,000 credit card balance would equate to the lender noting down 
minimum payments needed to service the credit card of around £400 per month. 
Whilst I accept that the actual rate or the assumed rate by the mortgage lender could 
potentially have been lower than 5%, Im not persuaded that the payment a mortgage lender 
considered was required to service an £8,000 credit card debt is likely to be lower than the 
payment required to service an £8,000 personal loan. 
A mortgage lender will take into account that credit card minimum payments can be altered 
at any point by the card provider, so will usually be cautious and use an assumed minimum 
payment figure, such as the 5% Ive highlighted above.  
So even if the mortgage application had assumed only 2% a month needed repaying as a 
minimum monthly payment on the credit card, it would still have cost more per month than 
the personal loan for the purposes of the mortgage application. As such, the application 
would have remained unaffordable and been declined. Whenever and however the final payment for the car had been made, this affordability issue for the mortgage application 
would have remained. 
Miss R seems to believe that the fact this credit limit was already available to her on her 
credit card would mean using some or all of it wouldnt impact her mortgage application. Im 
afraid that wouldnt be how the affordability of her mortgage was assessed. 
I havent seen evidence of any particular mortgage being formally offered to Miss R, and 
from the evidence provided, I dont believe that a mortgage application would have been 
shown to be affordable in one scenario (putting the car payment on a credit card)  but not in 
the other (taking a personal loan). So, I cant reasonably say that errors made by Mercedes 
here have caused any financial loss to Miss R. 
But fundamentally, I dont have any evidence of a mortgage application being accepted or 
declined at any point in any circumstances. With only limited evidence about mortgage 
quotes provided, and if I consider the details provided by Miss R, I cant say that there is any 
ensuing loss to her here from the delays in her making the final payment on the car. 
Finally, Miss R has talked about costs for a mortgage broker. Im unclear exactly what she 
means here, as she says that the lender had confirmed to her directly that the application 
would fail an affordability check if she took the personal loan to pay for the final car payment, 
and this meant she had to employ a broker and pay a fee to mitigate further losses. 
The only reason I can see that she would need to do this would be to use a broker to find 
other deals for her, perhaps from different lenders. But Ive seen no evidence of any other 
mortgage deals she has been offered or has taken out, and even if I had, these deals would 
have been required based on particular mortgage lender affordability checks, and not linked 
in any way to Mercedes actions. 
Im not persuaded that any error by Mercedes has had any impact on any mortgage 
application Miss R has made, and as such, I dont agree that Mercedes are liable for any 
mortgage broker fees Miss R may or may not have paid, or any difference in mortgage 
payments. 
I am unclear whether the issue is still outstanding, or whether Miss R has now paid off the 
balance. As she didnt accept the Investigators view, I dont believe things have been 
resolved yet. I agree with the investigator view issued previously, that Mercedes should 
allow Miss R to pay some or all of the final payment via a personal credit card, and if their 
website wont process this, they should arrange it with Miss R over the telephone, or via 
another suitable way (there was mention of making the payment face to face in a dealership 
potentially). 
Miss R has said that the offer of £100 doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience that 
shes suffered. Im sorry that this issue has caused her distress. But as I cant see any 
evidence of the issues having any significant financial impact on her, Im not persuaded this 
payment should be higher than £100. She doesnt appear to have paid the final payment yet, 
which was due in May 2022. As such, I dont think shes been caused any more significant 
inconvenience by whats happened. I am satisfied that £100 reflects her distress and 
inconvenience in this case. 
I am upholding the complaint but wont be asking Mercedes to do more than they have 
already agreed to do.  Putting things right
I instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do the following:
- Arrange for Miss R to be able to make some or all of her optional final payment (as 
required) via a personal credit card, by another means (e.g. on the telephone, in a 
dealership) if it cannot be done on their website.
- Pay Miss R £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman