DRN-2704029
The complaint
Mr M has complained about two loans granted to him by Everyday Lending Limited (EDL). 
He said that the loans were unaffordable for him and EDL was wrong to have agreed to 
them. 
What happened
EDL agreed two loans for Mr M. Loan 1 was for £1,200 and taken out in December 2016. 
Loan 2 was for £3,000 and taken out in September 2017. Loan 2 was used to repay Loan 1, 
but Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. Mr M entered into a Debt Management Plan to repay Loan 2. 
Some of the information EDL provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 20/12/2016 13/9/2017 £1,200 £107.74 24
2. 13/9/2017 Unpaid £3,000 £265.91 24
Mr M said that EDL knew that he had other outstanding debts when he applied for Loan 1. 
He was self-employed and struggling to find work. So, he took out Loan 1 to pay his other 
debts. Hed asked EDL for a top up in September 2017 to keep his payments to his other 
debts up to date. But because the interest was so high, he started to struggle to keep his 
payments up to date. He was affected financially and also felt depressed.
EDL said in its final response letter regarding Loan 1 that Mr M had told it he was staying 
with a friend and paying £600 towards board. Mr M had said that he had no dependent 
children and that hed been a subcontractor since June 2011. EDL calculated his average 
monthly income as £3,154.52 which it verified after viewing Mr Ms bank statements and his 
annual income statements. EDL had also carried out an affordability calculation, which 
showed that after taking out Loan 1, Mr M would have had approximately £1,148.94 of 
disposable income remaining. So, it couldnt agree that this loan was mis-sold to Mr M, or 
that it was unaffordable. This loan was settled in September 2017 from the proceeds of  
Loan 2, in order that Mr M could receive additional funds from that loan.
EDL said with regard to Loan 2 that Mr M had told it that he was paying £600 towards board. 
He still had no dependent children. He was still a subcontractor. It calculated his average 
monthly income as £3,824. This income was verified after viewing his bank statements and 
annual income statements. EDL had also carried out an affordability calculation, which 
showed that after taking out Loan 2, Mr M would have had approximately £1,116.99 of 
disposable income remaining. So, it couldnt agree that Loan 2 was mis-sold or that it was 
unaffordable.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that EDL 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ms financial situation. He said 
that EDL had shown that it had looked at a detailed credit report, reviewed Mr Ms payment 
history, and reviewed his bank statements before lending to him. The adjudicator didnt think 
there was anything in the information EDL gathered which meant it shouldn't have lent to   
Mr M. The adjudicator noted that Mr Ms expenditure was higher than hed disclosed, but he 
hadnt seen enough to suggest that EDL would have concluded that Mr M wouldn't have 
been able to have sustainably repaid the loan.
Mr M responded to say that he disagreed. He said he had two default balances at the time 
and a credit card with a balance over £3,500. It was clearly visible that he was struggling to 
repay his credit card balance. Mr M received £1,994.99 from the proceeds of Loan 2 and the 
next day he repaid a short term loan of £1,658.43. He said that meant he was already 
struggling to manage his loans and other repayments. Mr M said that he had taken out a lot 
of short term loans between Loans 1 and 2. He understood that his bank statements showed 
a high income, but he didnt think EDL had considered his expenditure correctly. As he was 
self-employed, not all of his income was profit. Mr M was also concerned that his credit 
report and debt repayment plan account showed two different balances for Loan 2 - £2785 
and £4172.91.  Mr M was concerned that this meant that an incorrect amount of interest had 
been charged.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to EDL on 5 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry to hear that Mr Ms health had been affected by his financial 
situation.
I noted that when EDL lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged EDL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
EDL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for EDL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
-
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, Id considered the 
following questions: 
- did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan   
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did EDL make fair lending decisions? 
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks? 
EDL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. I could see that it had asked Mr M for 
details of his monthly income and rent. It had estimated his other living expenses and it had 
carried out credit checks and used the results of those checks to calculate Mr Ms credit 
commitments. 
Id seen the results from EDLs credit checks. I could see there were three defaults that were 
at least 32 months old. Mr M had settled one of the defaults and was repaying the other two 
by regular monthly payments. So, he appeared to be managing the debts well. But in any 
event, I didnt think the defaults should have caused the lender additional concerns in view of 
their age. And I didnt think it was unreasonable for EDL to be more interested in Mr Ms 
more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the loans were affordable. 
Id referred to the credit checks later in my decision.
Wed also received Mr Ms credit report.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £1,200 and repayable over a term of 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£107.74. The total repayable was £2,585.75. The interest rate was 84.9% with an APR of 
127.1%. Mr M told EDL that the loan was to cover the Xmas holiday period.
Id noted EDLs credit checks before Loan 1 and compared these to what Id seen on         
Mr Ms own credit report. Both showed the three historic defaulted accounts Id referred to 
above. They also both showed that Mr M had a credit card with a balance of around £3,537 
and a hire purchase loan of £9,229 taken out around three months prior to his application for 
Loan 1. He was paying £155 per month on this. EDLs checks showed that Mr M had made 
two credit searches in the previous six months for insurance products. The credit check 
results didnt appear to show that Mr M was facing any recent problems managing his money. His more recent credit accounts were all shown as being up to date. Overall, I didnt 
think the results of its credit checks before Loan 1 should have given EDL additional 
concerns. 
As Id said above, EDL had also gathered some information from Mr M about his income 
before it agreed the loan. It was aware that Mr M was self-employed and had been working 
for the same company as a contractor since 2011. It asked him for bank statements and 
payslips. 
The fact that Mr M was self-employed meant that Mr Ms income might have been sporadic 
or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have been his available income and 
might not have been net of all tax, national insurance and business expenses. There was 
also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr M was unlikely to receive any sick pay or 
holiday pay. So, I thought that EDL should have taken steps to verify Mr Ms available 
income as carefully as possible as any error  even if slight - was likely to have a significant 
impact on his ability to repay this loan.
EDL had recorded several figures for Mr Ms income in its notes, the minimum being around 
£3,155. It had seen a statement of payment and deductions for Mr Ms income which 
showed deductions on account of tax.  EDLs contact notes also showed a verified weekly 
income of £788 which it stated allowed for payment of national insurance.  But EDL knew  
Mr M was self-employed and so I thought it ought to have checked whether the income 
figure it used was the actual amount available to pay his living costs and its loan 
repayments. I couldnt see that it did this.
Regarding Mr Ms expenses, I could see that EDL asked him for his rent amount which he 
said was £600. It appears that EDL had calculated Mr Ms living expenses as a percentage 
of his income and it said these were £1,000. EDL had also checked Mr Ms credit file to 
calculate his credit repayments. EDL showed these as £297.84. In total, EDL estimated a 
monthly spend of about £1,900.
I could also see that EDL reviewed Mr Ms bank statements for the period 22 October 2016 
to 22 November 2016. It provided this Service with a copy of Mr Ms bank statements 
including its handwritten notes. It didnt appear that Mr M had a separate account for his 
business and that the current accounts he had included both his living and business 
expenses. It didnt seem from EDLs notes that it had used the bank statements to verify its 
estimate of Mr Ms expenses.
I also couldnt see that EDL had asked Mr M about his business expenses. As he was self-
employed, it was likely that his income might have been significantly reduced by these. Id 
seen Mr Ms tax return for the tax year 2016/2017 and could see that business expenses of 
around £16,900 were deducted from his annual income. 
Overall, it didnt appear EDL had properly scrutinised the information it did see to ensure that 
Mr M did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
EDL calculated a disposable income of £1,148.94 after the monthly payment was made. I 
was concerned that EDL seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr M had a monthly 
disposable income of some £1,150 a month yet needed to borrow £1,200 at an APR of 
127.1%, for the purpose of needing the money for Xmas. 
Altogether, I didnt think EDLs checks went far enough given Mr Ms circumstances. The 
lender didnt know if his income deposits were all available to him to meet his expenses, and 
it didnt seem to have used the bank statements it had to verify its estimate of his monthly 
disposable income. So overall, I didnt think the checks EDL carried out before providing this loan were fair or 
proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
So, Id thought about what EDL wouldve seen if it had done what Id considered to be 
proportionate checks. 
Mr M had provided us with his credit report, his bank statements and a tax return from the 
time hed applied for this loan. I wasnt suggesting here that these were the checks that EDL 
should have done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender 
should have seen. 
Id firstly reviewed the bank statements that EDL saw. Taking all his existing (and ongoing) 
financial commitments and reasonably identifiable spend on food, phone, travel and 
insurance yielded a total expenditure of about £2,140. This figure included an amount of 
£600 Mr M said he spent on rent. This wasnt identifiable on the bank statements but there 
were sufficient cash withdrawals to cover this. Overall, I thought it was clear from the bank 
statements EDL had seen that Mr Ms living and rental costs were higher than the amount of 
around £1,600 it had estimated. And EDL would have seen from Mr Ms credit file that he 
was paying £155 a month on car finance and had a credit card balance of over £3,500.
Mr M had sent us his tax return for the 2016/2017 tax year. His annual income after 
deduction of tax, national insurance and business expenses appeared to be around £25,000. 
So, it would appear he had an average available monthly income of around £2,083 which 
was far less than the figure EDL used. 
So, had EDL considered fully the information it had received and enquired further into Mr Ms 
financial situation, I thought it would have learned that the loan wasnt likely to have been 
affordable for him and so I considered it was irresponsible to have agreed it. I thought EDL 
treated Mr M unfairly here and I intended to say that Mr Ms complaint about Loan 1 should 
be upheld. 
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for £3,000 and repayable over a term of 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£265.91. The total repayable was £6,381.84. The interest rate was 82.9% with an APR of 
122.9%. Mr M told EDL that the loan was for a holiday. Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds 
of Loan 2 and Mr M received the balance of £1,994.99.
EDL gathered some information from Mr M about his income. Its Go live audit records 
showed a monthly income of £5,243.33.
I could also see that EDL reviewed Mr Ms bank statements for the period 23 June 2017 to        
22 August 2017. It provided this Service with a copy of these bank statements complete with 
its handwritten notes.
Id noted that an email from EDL to Mr M dated 5 September 2017 asked him for two years 
audited accounts to be considered for a loan.  It appeared that these werent sent to EDL but 
Mr M in his response to it referred to the use of his statements in his previous loan 
application. An internal email following this said that EDL was to make sure that the last 
eight weekly payments were on Mr Ms bank statements and that there were no consistent 
large business expenses.This concerned me as I could see that EDL didnt appear to be assessing Mr M in line with 
its previous request for two years audited accounts which I thought would have given it a 
more detailed picture of Mr Ms overall financial situation.
I also couldnt see that EDL had asked Mr M about his business expenses. As with Loan 1, it 
was likely in Mr Ms circumstances that his available income would have been reduced by 
these as well as by his national insurance payments. 
With regard to Mr Ms living expenses, I could see that EDL had asked him for his rent 
amount which was £600. I couldnt see reference to a specific living expenses amount in 
EDLs file. But based on the disposable income it had calculated, it appeared that EDL had 
calculated Mr Ms living expenses to be around £1,157. Again, EDL didnt seem to have 
attempted to calculate Mr Ms actual living expenses from the bank statements it saw. 
EDL also checked Mr Ms credit file to calculate his credit repayments. EDL showed these as 
£858.35. 
Id compared EDLs credit checks to what Id seen on Mr Ms own credit report. Both showed 
the three historic defaulted accounts Id referred to above. They also showed that Mr M had 
a credit card with a balance of around £3,446 and the hire purchase loan Id referred to 
above. EDLs checks showed that Mr M had made no credit searches since Loan 1. 
But more importantly, both reports showed that Mr M had taken out a large number of short 
term loans since April 2017. EDLs credit report showed 13 short term loans having been 
taken out between April 2017 and the date of its check in September 2017. The first loan 
was for £100 but the most recent short term loan in July 2017 was for £1,375. All the loans, 
but one, were taken out within eight days of the previous loan having been repaid. Five were 
taken out on the same day the previous loan was repaid. This suggested that Mr M was 
borrowing to fill a hole in his finances that was made by repaying his previous loan. This 
wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. 
Mr Ms own credit report showed that a fourteenth short term loan was taken out on              
19 August 2017 for £1,525 and his previous loan of £1,375 was repaid the same day. I could 
see that EDL had been given a summary of the details of the £1,525 loan so it was aware of 
it when Mr M applied for Loan 2. 
Id thought the fact that Mr M had taken out 14 short term loans in around five months, with 
the loan amounts increasing significantly, and that they were almost all taken out shortly 
after the previous one was repaid, suggested that Mr M was facing serious problems 
managing his money. 
As Mr M was borrowing a significant amount of short term loans just to fund his existing 
expenditure and credit commitments, I thought there was a very real prospect that he would 
need to borrow again in order to repay Loan 2 and that would likely have a significant 
adverse effect on his financial situation. 
Id appreciated that EDL had taken Mr Ms outstanding credit commitments into account 
when it assessed his loan application. But I thought EDL ought reasonably to have 
questioned why Mr M, who apparently had a high level of disposable income, had needed to 
take out so many costly loans from short term, high cost lenders. Taking things in the round, 
I thought EDL ought reasonably to have realised that this was a consumer who was 
experiencing severe financial difficulties.
Id noted that EDL said that Mr Ms disposable income of £1,116.99 meant that Loan 2 
wasnt unaffordable. But it seemed to me that EDL was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr M on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was 
required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that 
they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, on balance, Id thought EDL ought reasonably to have realised that Mr M was most likely 
over committed financially, that there were indications he was having difficulty managing his 
finances and it was likely he would need to borrow elsewhere to repay Loan 2. Id thought 
EDL ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr M would have been able 
to sustainably repay his loan over the 24 months term. So, it should reasonably have 
concluded that it was unfair to lend Loan 2 to him.
I hadnt considered what proportionate checks would likely have shown EDL, because as Id 
explained above, Id thought EDL was irresponsible to have agreed Loan 2 on the basis of 
the information it already had. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr M or EDL, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order EDL to put things right as shown 
below. 
Putting things right  what EDL needs to do
I understood that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and that Loan 2 hadnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr M back into the position he would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for him, EDL needs to ensure that Mr M only repays the 
principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the 
combined capital amount of £4,200 he borrowed on these loans. So, EDL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr M had made towards Loans 1 and 2 as payments towards the
principal amounts borrowed;
b) if Mr M had made payments above the combined capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then EDL needs 
to treat Mr M fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This might mean agreeing a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with him.
d) remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Mr Ms credit file; and
e) remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Mr Ms credit file, once it had been
settled.
If EDL has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 2 it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If EDL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to e) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If EDL
intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax. Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say that he believed he had provided all the 
information.
EDL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr M and EDL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require EDL to pay Mr M compensation and take the steps as set out above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order  
Everyday Lending Limited to pay compensation to Mr M and take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what EDL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman