DRN-3604482
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited trading as Starling will not refund the money he 
lost after falling victim to an investment scam. 
Mr A is making his complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. 
To make my decision easier to read, I refer only to Mr A. I do this even where it was his 
representatives rather than Mr A who said or did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking 
this approach.
What happened
The details of this scam are well known to both parties, so I have summarised the key 
events. 
Mr A thought he was investing in online advertising campaigns and that he would be able to 
earn profits depending upon the number of hits each campaign went on to generate. 
He used his debit card to make four payments. The relevant transactions are listed below: 
Date/Time Beneficiary Amount Current account  
balance
03/07/2019 17:27 Voguepay_flutterw $250 (£198.90) -£444
08/07/2019 17:18 Voguepay_flutterw $250 (£199.98) -£394.42
15/07/2019 16:03 Techsupportspac_flut
terwave€2,221.63 
(£2,009.85)£264.88
25/07/2019 Incoming credit £264.99 £574.75
27/08/2019 Incoming credit £200.11 -£211.85
02/09/2019 17:13 Ravebyflutterwave £5,000 £1,034.71
02/10/2019 Incoming credit £208.09 £1,161.46
31/10/2019 Incoming credit £422.71 £1,215.01
Total loss: £6,312.83
Initially, Mr A was pleased with how things were going. Hed received a monthly return as 
expected so decided to invest more money. But when Mr A later tried to withdraw the profits, 
the company thanked him for the request, then stopped replying. Mr A never received any 
further money. Suspecting hed been the victim of a scam, he contacted Starling for help. 
Starling investigated Mr As fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide him with a 
refund. It said there was nothing it could do because the money transfer service hed paid 
had provided the service to him. 
Mr A complained. In its final response, Starling said the payments Mr A was making were 
not deemed suspicious and were approved by him at the time. Mr A remained unhappy with 
this position and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
He said that Starling would not have been able to raise a chargeback against the money 
transfer service that Mr A had paid because it had followed his instructions to transfer the 
money. He wasnt persuaded that Starling should have intervened in the payments Mr A was 
making. He noted that Mr A appeared to have wider investment experience because hed 
made payments to another company involved in Forex and commodity trading. He also 
noted that Mr A had been receiving income from the investment in line with what he was 
expecting at the time that he made the payments, so he wasnt persuaded that Mr A would 
have had any concerns. 
Mr A did not agree. He said the payments constituted a sudden change to the operation of 
his account as he was spending thousands of pounds with high risk payment companies 
based abroad. He said hed made these payments in a short space of time and had never 
made transactions anywhere close to this size, type, or frequency before. He thought the 
financial activity matched a known method of fraud or financial abuse and was something 
that Starling, as a fraud expert, should easily have been able to uncover as it had all of the 
fundamentals of the most common types of fraud that the bank would see. He thought even 
a basic level of questioning from a fraud expert would have made a difference and 
highlighted that this was a scam. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Starling have 
recognised Mr As payments as being suspicious and intervened. Having considered 
whether Starling could, or should, have done more to stop Mr A making the payments he 
did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask the bank to take responsibility to refund the 
money Mr A has lost. I can understand this will be a very disappointing outcome for Mr A so 
I will explain why.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. 
If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a 
prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred 
by its customers as a result. Starling is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding 
and due diligence duties to protect customers. It's not in dispute that Mr A made payments towards this investment using his debit card. 
This means that Mr A should be liable for the payments. Ive thought about whether Starling 
could have done anything to try and recover the money Mr A had paid. But Mr A paid an 
international payment infrastructure company. This is important because it means any 
chargeback attempt would likely have failed. Once Mr As money went through the payment 
infrastructure company, it would be deemed that the service had been provided by that 
merchant. This means that in this situation, a chargeback had no reasonable prospect of 
success. It also means that Starling would not have known where the funds were ultimately 
destined for. 
Ive thought about whether Starling could and should have done more to protect Mr A. 
Starling treated this as a scam rather than a high risk investment. I agree that with the 
benefit of hindsight, this situation has the hallmarks of an investment scam. This is important 
because a bank doesnt have a duty to intervene in payments that are being made to a 
legitimate investment opportunity or to protect customers from losses that flow from those 
investments. They only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial losses due 
to fraud.
So Ive gone on to think about whether Starling should have intervened in the transactions 
Mr A was making. I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. There are many millions of card payments made each day and it would not be 
possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one.
Ive carefully considered the operation of Mr As account. In the months leading up to the 
transactions in dispute, he made numerous transactions via various different payment 
methods, including by card. He was also making payments that appear to be connected to 
other investments. Initially the transactions Mr A was making were very similar to other 
payments that he typically made from the account. But Mr A points out the transactions he 
was making increased in value and were going to a higher risk country, so they should have 
stood out. 
This judgment call is finely balanced but overall, I dont find the transactions were so unusual 
or uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered Starlings fraud alert systems. This 
means that I cant fairly say that Starling ought to have intervened and paused the payments 
Mr A was making to find out more about them.
I consider that the payments would have appeared fairly unremarkable overall to Starling. 
The payments Mr A was making were sporadic, not rapid. There was a gap of around seven 
weeks between the two larger payments. Even though the payments went on to be for more 
than Mr A typically spent, and the money was going abroad, I dont think these factors in and 
of themselves are enough to say that Starling should have treated these payments as 
suspicious. I dont think the payments stand out enough for me to fairly say that Starling 
should have identified that Mr A was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
I understand Mr A has lost money through no fault of his own. Its not in question that hes 
fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But as I dont find Starling ought to have done anything 
more when executing his payment requests, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse 
Mr As losses.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman