DRN-1717223
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Quidie Limited (trading as Fernovo) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a single loan with Quidie in November 2017. The loan was for £200, and was 
due to be repaid by six monthly instalments of around £53.
Mr S repaid the loan in full. But hes explained that he was addicted to gambling at the time, 
and was taking out a large number of loans to fund his habit. He believes that if Quidie had 
carried out thorough checks, it would have realised that he wouldnt be able to keep up with 
his loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. In summary, he thought that the 
information Quidie gathered before making the loan showed that Mr S was having problems 
managing his money. And he thought Quidie should have realised that it was unlikely that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loan sustainably. So he said Quidie should pay Mr S some 
compensation, and make some changes to his credit file.
Quidie didnt respond to the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidie should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
Quidies told us it carried out thorough credit and affordability checks before making the loan 
to Mr S, and its provided the results of those checks. 
Purely on the basis of the information that Mr S gave Quidie about his regular monthly 
income and expenditure, I accept that the loan repayments would have appeared to be 
relatively comfortably affordable. The loan repayments were a small proportion of the 
disposable income hed declared.
But the credit search that Quidie carried out showed that Mr S had opened a large number of 
accounts in the months leading up to his loan application. And although hed repaid some 
loans, he still had loans outstanding with several other short-term lenders when he applied to 
borrow from Quidie. I think that this ought to have alerted Quidie to the likelihood that Mr S 
was having problems managing his money. And I think it should have realised that there was 
a real risk that hed be able to repay the loan sustainably. So I dont think Quidie should have 
agreed to make the loan to Mr S.
Putting things right
I dont think Quidie should have agreed to lend to Mr S. So Quidie should:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on the loan;
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Mr S paid the 
interest and charges, until the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information it has reported to the credit agencies about the 
loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Quidie Limited to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman