DRN-2175576
The complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled the 
emergency repairs to her boiler.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and the facts are not in dispute, 
so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
It took Great Lakes nearly six weeks to bring the boiler and heating back to full 
working order. When taking into consideration the individual circumstances  winter 
months, loss of heating and hot water, and with a young baby in the home  I dont 
think this is an acceptable delay.
Ms G made repeated contacts with Great Lakes, chasing repairs and status updates 
of the engineers. Ive seen that there are almost 30 contacts recorded between Ms G 
and Great Lakes during the six week period. While some contact isnt unreasonable 
during repairs of this type, and some calls were outbound, I dont think its fair that Ms 
G felt it necessary to repeatedly chase information.
Engineers carried out repairs only for the boiler to stop working again almost 
immediately. I dont think its reasonable for this to happen repeatedly for an 
emergency repair to essential services.
Great Lakes missed two appointments to carry out the boiler repair. While it provided 
reasons for the cancellation on the days, each a week apart, I can see that it 
wouldve been inconvenient and frustrating for Ms G having taken time off work to be 
available.
I understand that the reasons for missing appointments were due to issues with the 
contractors engineers and outside Great Lakes control. But Great Lakes is 
responsible for providing the service for Ms G, so I think its fair that I take the missed 
appointments into consideration when deciding on the appropriate level of 
compensation.
Because of the delay in repairing her boiler, Ms Gs young family moved into 
alternative accommodation where heating and hot water wouldve been available to 
them. I can understand that it wouldve caused disruption and upset for Ms G to be 
away from her family during that time.
Ms Gs cupboard became damp because of the boiler fault and needed repairing. 
This is an additional inconvenience which is unlikely to have happened if the boiler 
repair was done within a reasonable time.
For these reasons, I uphold Ms Gs complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is to uphold Ms Gs complaint and Great Lakes 
Insurance SE must:
pay £200 compensation to Ms G, which is in addition to the £100 it has already paid, 
by way of apology for the shortfalls in service identified here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman