DRN-4246966
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss C came across an online advertisement for a company Ill refer to as S. The advert 
said that if she invested £250, she would double her money. The advert contained case 
studies of people who had made money and stipulated that S would use their expertise to 
make trades on commodities and cryptocurrency.
Miss C felt this seemed like a plausible way to save for a house deposit, so she clicked on 
the link and was redirected to an enquiry form, which she completed. The next day, she was 
contacted by someone claiming to be a broker working for S who explained he would make 
trades in cryptocurrency on her behalf. She was told to set up an online account and send 
documents regarding her immigration status. 
She made an initial investment of £249.87 on 17 December 2021 but the next day, she 
contacted Lloyds to ask it to withhold the initial payment as she was worried about the 
immigration documents shed sent and was concerned that shed been scammed. The call 
handler told Miss C to ask S for a refund and said it could investigate the payment if they 
refused. They also told Miss C to be wary of scams in the future and not to send any more 
money if she believed she was being scammed. 
When Miss C spoke to the broker, he told her it was standard procedure to ask for ID 
documents. He apologised for getting off on the wrong foot and said that if she wasnt 
satisfied with her profit over the next two weeks, he would recover the money and close her 
account. He told her hed worked in finance for over 10 years and that his commission rate 
would vary. He told her to download AnyDesk so she could see her trades, leaving her 
feeling confident that S was legitimate.
The broker told Miss C she would need to invest more and advised her to take out a loan, 
which he did remotely on her behalf, declaring it was for home improvements'. He also 
advised her to open an account with T so she could convert her money cryptocurrency 
before sending it to an online wallet. 
On 13 January 2022, Miss C made a payment of £10,000 to T and within a few days she 
could see her account balance had increased to £13,500. But on the seventh day the broker 
told her there had been a crash and her account balance had fallen to £200. At this point he 
told her hed assign her to a senior broker who advised her to invest more to compensate for 
the crash.
But when she tried to make a further payment, it was blocked. During the call, Miss C was 
open about the circumstances of the payment and was advised not to send the money. At 
this point she realised she was the victim of a scam and contacted Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt agree to refund the money shed lost. It said shed been promised unrealistic 
returns and she should have done more checks before going ahead with the investment. It 
said the FCA had issued a warning about S on 20 October 2021 which was last updated on 
the 29 November 2021, and there were negative reviews online about S which were posted 
before she invested. 
It said it didnt contact Miss C when she made the £10,000 payment because it was to an 
account in her own name. And as there was no mention of S during the call that took place 
in December 2021, its advice to contact the recipient bank on that occasion was correct. 
Miss C complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. They said Lloyds 
had failed to provide a sufficient warning when she tried to make the first payment and had 
missed a chance to make basic enquires, ask probing questions and engage with her as to 
why she was making such payments. Further it said Lloyds had actually initiated contact 
between Miss C and the scammer which caused her further financial harm and that if the call 
handler had conducted a search, they would have realised there was an FCA warning 
posted about S on 20 October 2021. 
They also said that Lloyds had contacted her on 13 January 2022 when she made the 
£10,000 payment and its staff should have known that scammers groom their victims to give 
false accounts. They also said it should have probed further when understanding why Miss 
C needed to send money to T for home improvements. They argued Lloyds should have 
asked why shed taken out a loan with an external company, why she was using T if the 
payment was for home improvements, and whether she was under pressure to make the 
payment.
They said that if Lloyds had asked more probing questions, it would have realised Miss C 
was falling victim to an investment scam, even though she was sending money to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company. And it should have provided a scam warning 
in light of all the information known to banks about the increasing number of scams 
associated with scammers selling what is made out to be cryptocurrency.
They explained the activity was unusual for Miss Cs account and the high value payments 
to new payees relating to cryptocurrency should have been immediate red flags and it 
should have intervened when she made the £10,000 payment. They said the account was 
subject to a high influx of personal loans equating to £10,000 which were then forwarded to 
the scammer, and this rapid movement of borrowed funds should have been a cause of 
concern. 
NatWest maintained there was no mention of S during the call that took place in December 
2021 and Miss C didnt provide any information that would have led it to believe she was the 
victim of a scam. It said it allowed the £10,000 transaction to be processed without further 
intervention because it was to an account in Miss Cs own name and she had willingly 
opened the account and provided full identification, so it wouldnt have been expected to 
intercept the payment.
Our investigator initially said the complaint should be upheld in part. He explained the CRM 
code didnt apply as these were payments to account Miss C held in her own name, and that 
there was no prospect of a successful chargeback for the same reason. He didnt think the payment of £249.87 was suspicious or unusual. He accepted Miss C had 
contacted Lloyds after she made the payment, but it was given the impression she was more 
unhappy with the service shed received and he didnt think shed been led to believe S 
wasnt operating a scam.
But he thought Lloyds should have contacted Miss C on 13 January 2022 when she made 
the £10,000 payment and that any questions about whether anyone else was involved 
wouldve stopped the scam, as she likely would have told the truth if she was asked 
appropriate questions and she didnt go ahead when Lloyds intervened when she tried to 
make the final payment. But he thought the settlement should be reduced by 50% for 
contributory negligence because she could have prevented her own loss had she done 
adequate checks and read the FCAs warning about S.
Lloyds didnt agree with the outcome. It said it didnt intervene on 13 January 2022, but Miss 
C had said shed spoken to someone about the £10,000 payment, meaning it must have 
been stopped by T when she moved it on to the scammer. It said her own account is that 
there was a call during which she said the payment was for home improvements and so, if it 
had asked the same question, shed have given the same response, and the payment would 
have been processed.
Our investigator issued a second view in which he explained Lloyds should have flagged and 
questioned Miss C about the £10,000 payment, but he didnt think it would have made any 
difference to her decision to go ahead with the payment. He explained both parties agree its 
possible the payment was blocked by T and that Miss C says she explained the payment 
was for home improvements, because she was instructed to lie by the broker. So, he was 
satisfied that even if Lloyds had asked her about payment, its likely she wouldve said it was 
for home improvements and it wouldnt have been able to detect the scam.
Miss Cs representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
They pointed out our investigator previously relied on the fact Miss C did cease to make 
payments following adequate intervention when she tried to make the final payment, which is 
evidence she stopped making payments once Lloyds intervened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss C says shed fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the disputed payment was to an account in Miss Cs own name, and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Im satisfied Miss C authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Miss C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Miss C didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. Lloyds is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Lloyds had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have done more to warn Miss C when she tried to 
make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Lloyds to intervene with a view to protecting Miss C from financial harm due to fraud. 
The first payment didnt flag as suspicious but Miss C contacted Lloyds the following day and 
so it did have an opportunity to intervene at that point. Lloyds told her to contact the recipient 
bank and gave a generic fraud warning. Ive considered whether it did enough at that point, 
and Im satisfied that it did. The payment was low value, it was to an account in her name 
and there was no mention of S, so dont think it was unusual or suspicious, therefore I dont 
think Lloyds needed to have done anything more than it did at that point. 
Ive considered the nature of the second payment in the context of whether it was unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Miss C normally ran her account and I think it was. Lloyds has 
argued the money was transferred to an account in Miss Cs name but based on the value of 
the payment and the fact it related to cryptocurrency, I think it should have blocked the 
payment and contacted her to ask questions around the circumstances of the payment. 
But Miss C has said there was a call when she tried to make the payment and that she told 
the call handler she wasnt pressured to make the payment and that it was for home 
improvements. The call agent her gave a general fraud warning and the payment was 
processed.  Having carefully considered the evidence and the circumstances, I think its 
most likely this is a recollection of a call Miss C had with T, and its likely shed have given 
similar responses to questions if Lloyds had intervened. And, based on the fact Miss C 
would probably have told Lloyds she wasnt pressured to make the payment and it was for 
home improvements, I think its likely the payment would have been processed, even if 
Lloyds had blocked it. 
Miss Cs representative has argued that she listened and acted on the advice she was given 
by Lloyds when she tried to make the final payment and I accept this might be indicative of 
how she would have responded to an effective warning. But matters had progressed by that 
point and I think the way she responded to Ts questions on 13 January 2022 is most 
relevant to what she would likely have done on the same date if Lloyds had intervened. So, I 
dont think Lloyds failure to intervene on 13 January 2022 represents a missed opportunity to 
have prevented her loss and I cant fairly ask it to do anything further. 
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the first payment when 
she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss C).
Miss Cs own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Miss Cs 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Lloydss decision 
not to raise a chargeback request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
Im sorry to hear Miss C has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds could have prevented this and so I cant fairly tell 
it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionYour text here
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman