DRN-2576737
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the Hood Group Limited which arranged his insurance cover for a 
property he lets out. He feels, and it accepts, that poor service was provided when the policy 
was due to renew in 2020.
What happened
Mr H received a letter prior to the date his policy was due to renew. This said he had to 
contact Hood Group because its business arrangements had changed and it was no longer 
able to offer the cover that had previously been in place. Mr H tried twice to call the number 
given but, having waited in a queue for an hour, got cut off. When Mr H was eventually able 
to speak to Hood Group, a quote was undertaken and Mr H was told no insurance could be 
offered because of the way he lets his property. Mr H felt he could have been told this from 
the start and his time wouldnt have been wasted.
Hood Group reviewed the service it had provided. It accepted that it failed Mr H and 
apologised. It said it would also provide feedback. Mr H was pleased by the outcome, but felt 
the redress, of an apology and feedback, wasnt sufficient. He felt it should pay him 
compensation. Mr H complained to us.
Our investigator noted that Hood Group had accepted it had failed Mr H. However, he felt its 
apology and assurance of feedback being given was a fair and reasonable response in the 
circumstances. He didnt think a monetary compensation award was warranted.  
Mr H noted our investigator had said Hood Group had tried to call him. He said he didnt 
think that was the case as he hadnt received any voicemails. He reiterated that he felt he 
should have been told straightaway that he couldnt be offered cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a frustrating time for Mr H. In an ideal world Hood Group would 
have known it wasnt going to be able to offer Mr H cover going forwards. However, in 
practice Hood Group couldnt reasonably review how the change in business circumstances 
would affect all of its policyholders without talking to them. Once Hood Group was able to 
talk to Mr H the problem with the cover was discovered. Although I appreciate that even at 
that time some further enquires were required before the final position was confirmed.
I appreciate that Mr H did what he could to get in touch with Hood Group, and that for Mr H 
not being able to get through to it was both frustrating and time wasting. Hood Group has 
said it has taken on board Mr Hs feedback and I think that, along with its apology, is a 
reasonable way of responding in this instance.
I understand that Mr H would like some monetary compensation, to acknowledge the time he 
spent trying to progress his renewal, and the frustration he experienced. At this service we 
dont always require insurers to pay monetary compensation. We do accept that an apology 
is sometimes sufficient. I think that is the case here. 
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Hood Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman