DRN-3104485
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled a dispute on a purchase made 
using his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr Js family booked holiday accommodation through an accommodation marketplace 
website (the website). It cost about £3,000 and was paid for using Mr Js Santander credit 
card account. Unhappy with the accommodation - and being dissatisfied with responses 
from the accommodation provider and the website - he raised a dispute with Santander. 
When Santander declined his request for a partial refund Mr J complained. When Santander 
responded to the complaint it stood by its decision not to refund Mr J, but it did ultimately pay 
him £50 compensation in recognition of some poor customer service. Mr J brought the 
matter to our service for an independent review.
The investigator thought Santander had acted fairly. In her view a chargeback was unlikely 
to succeed as Mr J and his family had stayed in the accommodation for the duration of the 
booking. And she didnt think Mr J had a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) because his daughter had contracted with the website. 
Mr J didnt challenge the investigators findings on whether Santander should have refunded 
him through a chargeback or a Section 75 claim. But he remained dissatisfied as he feels 
Santander should do more to protect customers. In his view Santander is allowing the 
website to continue to act dishonestly. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has explained there were issues with the accommodation, including, but not limited to, 
there being two bathrooms instead of three, some missing/damaged furniture, inadequate 
cutlery/crockery, a broken dishwasher and unusable TVs. I can understand why Mr J and his 
family were disappointed with the accommodation.
But Santander, as the creditor, isnt automatically responsible for putting things right. In this 
scenario Santander could pursue a dispute for Mr J under the chargeback scheme. Or 
consider a claim under Section 75. 
Santander has said it didnt attempt a chargeback as it didnt think one had a reasonable 
prospect of success. As Mr J and his family occupied the accommodation for the duration of 
the booking, the facilities advertised were mostly available, and Mr J has had a refund from 
the website (albeit a small one), I think it was most likely correct. So Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Santander not to attempt one. 
Section 75 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by a supplier to their credit provider. However, in this case Mr J doesnt meet the criteria.  
Our investigator explained why this is in detail, and Mr J doesnt dispute it, so I see no 
reason to cover that ground again in detail here. In brief, Mr J is the debtor. But his daughter, 
a secondary card holder, contracted with the website. So there isnt the debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship necessary for a valid claim under Section 75, meaning Santander 
doesnt need to refund Mr J.
Mr J remains unhappy with the website and argues Santander should be doing more to 
challenge how it operates. I acknowledge his strength of feeling. But my role here is to 
decide whether, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, Santander should have done 
more to assist him in this dispute. For the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded it should 
have. If Mr J feels consumer protection, and the role banks play in it, is insufficient, he may 
want to consider contacting his member of parliament.
Although not a point of contention, for completeness, I consider the £50 compensation 
Santander has paid to Mr J in recognition of the customer service issues he experienced is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman