DRN-3314405
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds bank PLC (Lloyds) changed his Gold Account (GA) in 2021 
without his agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has held a GA for many years where he got a range of benefits including insurances for 
free if he kept the balance of the account above a certain level. He says that Lloyds withdrew 
this fee waiver in 2021 and started charging him a monthly fee without his agreement.
Lloyds says that it notified Mr L in advance about the change it was making to the account 
and gave him clear instructions about what to do if he wanted to continue the account or 
close or downgrade to a fee free account. Lloyds says that Mr L didnt give it instructions to 
close or downgrade the account, so it remained open and a monthly charge was applied.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the GA and, as with any bank account, they do 
enable Lloyds as the provider to change the way the account works provide it gives sufficient 
notice and clear instructions about what the customer must do if they dont want to continue 
with it. So, in my view, Lloyds has not done anything wrong in making a change to the GA.
Ive looked at the letter Mr L received. And, in my view, it does make clear what the change 
is, and what to do if he wants to close or downgrade the account. The letter was sent more 
than two months before the change was made.
So, in my view the communication was made in good time and was not misleading.
Mr L says that Lloyds started to take the monthly charge without his agreement. I disagree, 
as in my view the letter he received clearly told him a monthly charge would be applied 
unless he instructed them to close or downgrade the account. 
And while I acknowledge that he expressed his dissatisfaction with the charge to Lloyds, I 
can see no evidence that he instructed Lloyds to close or downgrade the account. I can also 
see that Lloyds payed him the equivalent of 3 months further monthly fees to give him more 
time to consider what he wanted to do.
So, although I know Mr L will be disappointed, in my view Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in 
making this change his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman