DRN-4219848
The complaint
Ms S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) made mistakes when updating her address, sent a 
statement to the wrong address and then failed to send a correctly addressed replacement 
statement.
What happened
Ms S has a bank account with TSB. In August 2022, she asked TSB to change her address. 
TSB didnt make the change correctly and a statement was sent to the wrong address for Ms 
S.
Ms S was unhappy and wanted TSB to provide a replacement statement displaying her 
correct new address. After considering this request, TSB explained that it couldnt amend a 
historic document but said it would be happy to provide a letter explaining what had 
happened.
The investigator agreed that TSB made a mistake but thought that it responded fairly to Ms 
Ss complaint when it paid £250 compensation and offered to provide a letter explaining 
what had happened.  
Ms S is unhappy with the investigation outcome. Ms S says TSB told her by email that the 
statement address could be amended. Ms S says TSB has made several errors including 
using the wrong address on a statement at the end of September 2022. She also says the 
investigator has got dates and details wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has pointed to the many mistakes TSB made in its emails, chats, and calls. I dont 
intend setting these out in detail  this isnt to diminish their importance to Ms S but for the 
purpose of deciding her complaint, I dont think I need to refer to every error. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to summarise this complaint in less detail than the parties and 
to do so in my own words.
TSB agrees that it made mistakes when it didnt properly update Ms Ss address and sent a 
bank statement to the wrong address. TSB says it cant now amend a bank statement which 
it has already produced. I appreciate this isnt the answer Ms S had hoped for as she wants 
the correctly addressed statement but TSB explains this is because it cant alter a historic 
document. I think TSBs explanation is reasonable and Im satisfied that its offer to write a 
letter which Ms S can provide to any parties she may need to, is a fair solution. 
Ms S has said she needed the statement to show receipt of the proceeds of sale for a 
property purchase. Although the statement showing receipt of this money has the wrong 
address on it, its still addressed to Ms S and the next statement, showing the balance, is 
correctly addressed. If it were to turn out that TSBs proposed solution of writing a letter to 
didnt work and Ms Ss property purchase failed solely because of the incorrectly addressed 
statement, then I dont see why Ms S couldnt complain to TSB at that point. I just dont think 
I can award compensation at this point for something that hasnt happened yet.
Although Ms S says that TSB agreed to amend the address on the statement, I cant see 
evidence of this. TSB said that it would try and find out whether it was possible to amend the 
address on the historic statement before eventually saying that it couldnt.  
I understand Ms S is unhappy that TSB sent the statement to the wrong address and I agree 
this was unfortunate. But I dont have evidence to suggest this resulted in a financial loss to 
Ms S  for example because someone other than Ms S was then able to access her bank 
account. If anything were to happen in the future because of the statement being sent to the 
wrong address, I would expect TSB to deal with that on Ms Ss behalf. 
I can see TSBs mistakes have inconvenienced Ms S and been upsetting to her. Overall, I 
consider TSBs compensation payment of £250 together with its offer to write a letter 
explaining what happened has been a fair way to resolve Ms Ss complaint. So, I dont 
require TSB to do more to put things right. I leave it with Ms S to tell TSB if she wants it to 
provide a letter explaining what happened with the statement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB has already 
offered and done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman