DRN-4172965
The complaint
Mr R complains about what happened when he asked Santander UK Plc to increase the 
mortgage borrowing on his home, to fund the purchase of a commercial property that he 
intended to use partly for his business, and partly as a buy to let property.
What happened
Mr R said he asked Santander if he could borrow more on his existing home mortgage with 
it, to pay for the purchase of a commercial property. Mr R was already the sole director of a 
limited company, and he planned to run his business from this property, as well as to rent 
out the flat above for profit. Mr R said Santander was very positive about this, saying he 
could borrow an extra £65,000, so he went ahead and committed himself to the purchase. 
But then the bank said the maximum it could lend him was an extra £27,000.
Mr R said his income from the limited company he owns is paid as salary, so he thinks he
should be treated the same as any other employee. But Mr R said Santander counts him as
a self-employed person. Mr R felt that the consequences of this werent fair or reasonable.
Mr R said Santander should only be looking at the wages he received, and he said his salary
had actually gone up, but Santander wasnt taking this into account. He thought Santander
ought not to take account of the financial affairs of the business, which is a separate legal
entity. He said the performance of the business doesnt affect the wages he earns.
Mr R said Santander was even taking account of lending his business had received under
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS) introduced during the coronavirus pandemic, but
this loan was a business liability not a personal one. Mr R thought Santander was counting
the debts of the business against him personally. He said this breached lending rules.
When Mr R initially complained, he said that the purchase of the property was being
jeopardised. He later managed to complete his purchase, but without any lending from
Santander. He said this cost him very much more than anticipated. Hed had to take a
commercial mortgage on the property, and a second mortgage on his home.
Mr R has also added further concerns to his complaint, including that Santander asked for
evidence hed secured a commercial mortgage to cover the costs of his purchase, before it
would consider lending him enough to cover the deposit. He said Santander wouldnt have
asked for this if hed been buying something else, like a car or doing home repairs.
Mr R said there was an error on his accountancy certificate  literally a case of ticking the
wrong box  but that wasnt discovered until two weeks before the property purchase was
due to complete. If Santander had reviewed the certificate weeks earlier, when it got this,
then that could have been corrected. Mr R said mortgage rates went up in this time, so the
lending he eventually got cost more.
Mr R said Santander had told him he could pay the deposit for his property purchase on his
credit card initially, because his lending would be agreed before this showed on his credit
file. But it wasnt completed in time, and Mr R said this lending did affect his application.
Before Santander said it wouldnt lend at all, it reduced the available amount because of his
credit card debt.
Mr R also said Santander had asked in mid-June for his 2022 accounts, which he couldnt
supply, because his accountancy year ends at the end of June. He also said Santander
asked for self-employed tax forms, which he doesnt have as he only pays himself a wage.
Mr R said that after a series of confusing requests for information he couldnt supply, and
differing decisions on the maximum amount it could lend, Santander then decided it wouldnt
lend to him at all.
Santanders view on whether it might be able to lend to Mr R has changed over time. It
initially said to Mr R that it wouldnt lend him the full amount he wanted. After this case came
to our service, Santander then decided it wouldnt lend to Mr R at all. Then Santander
received some new information from Mr R, and said it could reconsider.
Santander sent Mr R two complaint response letters. The first, dated 29 May 2022, said it
was sorry it had to apply a maximum lending amount that didnt meet Mr Rs full lending
requirements, but it didnt think that was a mistake.
It then sent a second complaint response letter, dated 24 July 2022, which said it was sorry
Mr R felt his application hadnt been processed promptly, and he was unhappy with the final
decision not to lend. Santander said it had received his accountants certificate in May 2022,
but there was still an outstanding document required before the case could be assessed.
Santander said it received that on 29 June, and all documents were then reviewed.
Santander said it was sorry to say it wasnt able to lend to Mr R, the details on his
accountants certificate meant that there was no income it could use to support lending.
Santander said it understood that Mr R had needed the money by mid-July, and he wasnt
able to get his company accounts (which run until the end of June 2022) completed in time
for Santander to consider those for lending purposes, and then to meet this deadline for him.
Santander has shown our service that it received an accountants certificate, setting out Mr
Rs earnings and the position of his company, dated 4 May 2022, and covering the previous
years accounts, up until the end of June 2021. Santander had made its decision on the
basis of that information. It said that it couldnt take account of any earnings or accounts
covering less than a year, and it doesnt appear to have received any further information for
the year ending 30 June 2022 before it took its decision not to lend, on 6 July 2022.
Santander also sent us further information on Mr Rs complaint. It said that it could confirm
that Mr R was declined because the position of his company meant it couldnt use any
income for lending purposes. It said Mr Rs lending request hadnt simply been rejected
because his company had taken a BBLS loan.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr R is classed as self-
employed under Santanders policy, so it does look into the affordability and suitability of Mr 
Rs income before agreeing to lend. Mr Rs business was unfortunately making a loss on the
last available accounts, and his most recent years accounts werent yet available when
Santander reached its lending decision.
Our investigator said he couldnt comment directly on Santanders lending criteria, but he
thought they had been applied fairly, and Mr R had been treated the same as any other
applicant in the same situation. So our investigator said he wouldnt ask Santander to
change its decision.Mr R then wrote again, to say he thought wed over-simplified things.
Mr R said that his business returned to profitability in June 2022. Hed provided these
accounts to Santander, and his salary had increased. But he said Santander still based its
decision on the June 2021 accounts. It wouldnt accept wage slips or bank statements.
Mr R said that we also hadnt commented on whether the BBLS liability should have been
taken into account. He stressed again that this was a business liability, but he was asking
Santander to lend to him personally.
Finally, Mr R said we hadnt taken account of the numerous times he was asked for further
information, each time slightly changing the goalposts. He said that hed experienced a great
deal of difficulty communicating with Santander, which further delayed its decision. He said
he first contacted Santander in April. And waiting four months, only to be turned down
because of a lack of documents (the self-employed tax return) was unacceptable.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Mr R hadnt been misled about Santanders
intentions to lend to him, as he couldnt see that Santander had made any agreement to lend
to Mr R, or provided a decision in principle saying it would lend. No mortgage offer was ever
issued. Santander wouldnt know whether it could lend Mr R the full amount it originally
discussed with him until his application was complete.
Our investigator also said he didnt accept there were delays that affected the outcome of
the application. And he said Santander would consider the financial performance of the
relevant business for any applicant it considered to be self-employed. He said Santander is
allowed to set the rules for its own lending, and our service cant say it should lend when its
Santanders policy not to.
Mr R still said hed been misled from the outset. And he still felt his application finally failed
because he couldnt produce self-assessment returns. Because no agreement was reached,
this case then came to me for a final decision.
I asked Santander for some further information on this case, before I reached any decision.
In response, Santander has shown us that after its decision in July 2022 not to lend to Mr R,
it received a fresh set of accounts from him, on 9 August, for the year ending 2022.
Santander then indicated it might be able to lend to Mr R after all, if his business had moved
back into profit. And it asked Mr R to supply an updated accountants certificate showing that.
Santander said that far from it repeatedly asking Mr R for a self-employed tax assessment
which he couldnt supply, Mr R had himself offered his SA302 form early in the process, to
show that he was only receiving a salary, not dividends. It showed us the email dated 4 May
where Mr R sent this form to it.
Santander also shared two calls with our service.
The first call took place on 3 May 2022. Mr R rang then to ask about making changes to his
application. He said he wanted to draw down less additional lending on his personal
mortgage with Santander, and get a commercial mortgage on the property. Mr R indicated
he didnt want to take on such a high level of personal debt. So he reduced his request from
£64,000 to £35,000. Santander said it could assess this fully once Mr Rs accountants
certificate had been submitted. So it appears that Mr R had taken the decision to take out a
commercial mortgage before Santander had received his accountants certificate.The second call was on 9 August 2022, Mr R rang in response to a missed call from
Santander. This was the same day hed sent through his updated accounts. Santander was
clear that an updated accountants certificate would need to be sent, and would need to
show a profit. Mr R said the accounts hed already shared showed a profit, but he wanted to
know what Santander might lend him, based on the figures hed supplied.
I can hear that Santanders agent then attempted to assist, and said if Mr R was in profit and
Mr R was taking a salary, then it would base its lending decision on the salary. Mr R referred
Santander to information on the accounts on his salary, and asked how much Santander
could lend based on that. Santander said unfortunately it wouldnt be able to do a quick
reassessment for Mr R because it had first got information from him several months ago. Mr
R said he understood this, but hed wasted a lot of time on his first application, so he wanted
to know. Santander said it would run this assessment for him, if he waited.
After a period on hold, Mr R said he was now asking for an additional £25,000 on his
mortgage. Santander said it would consider this amount of lending, as long as it had an
accountants certificate showing the business was back in profit. Mr R asked about the
balances showing on his credit card which had been used to reach this conclusion, and
Santander said it had used the old information he supplied, based on his old lending.
Mr R has told us he had used his credit card to make a sizeable payment towards the 
purchase of the property, so this amount appears to date from before that transaction 
showed on his credit card. Mr R didnt advise Santander of his revised credit card borrowing 
levels on this call. And he ended the call indicating that he would supply the requested 
updated accountants certificate.
Santander showed us it asked Mr R for this information on 9 August, then tried again to
contact him on 24 August. On 29 August, it said it was putting his application on hold, as he
hadnt been in touch, but he was welcome to contact it if he was still interested in applying.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold a small part of it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by setting out briefly the overall picture as I understand it. The position has
evolved as this case has been with our service.
Mr R wanted to extend the mortgage on his home, to fund the purchase costs of a 
separate property  a commercial property with a residential flat above. He was 
planning to rent the commercial premises to his own limited company (with a saving on 
rental costs for that company) and to rent out the flat above for profit. Mr R told us he 
was committed to this purchase after his initial informal discussions with Santander.
Mr R reduced his borrowing requirements only a few days after he first approached
Santander. So I think it was his decision to then ask a different lender for a commercial
mortgage. Mr R set up a new limited company to hold this property, and the commercial 
mortgage lending he has shown us is to that company.
Mr R continued with his personal mortgage application with Santander, but at this point 
he was hoping to extend his home mortgage to cover the part of the purchase costs for 
the new property, including an auction charge that he told us hed already paid using a credit card. In early July, Santander said it wouldnt lend to Mr R at all, because the 
most recent accounts available to Santander said his business wasnt running at a profit.
In early August, Mr R sent Santander his new annual accounts, which he said showed 
his business had returned to profit. Santander said it would need this information in the 
form of an accountants certificate. Mr R said he would get this, but he doesnt appear to 
have done so. Instead, he then took out lending elsewhere, in the form of a second 
charge mortgage on his home, to pay for the purchase, including the debt which was 
presumably now on his credit card.
Ill now look at the complaint points Mr R has raised.
Mr R made financial commitments based on Santanders offer to lend
Mr R said that initially, Santander was very positive about whether it could lend to him, 
and that was why he made a commitment to purchase the property. Like our 
investigator, I cant see Santander had agreed at this stage to lend to Mr R, or even 
issued Mr R with a decision in principle. I think the initial indications about lending that 
Santander gave were always subject to a full application by Mr R, and I think its likely 
they were expressed as such, rather than a clear commitment to offer the lending Mr R 
wanted. I havent seen anything to make me think its Santanders fault that Mr R made 
financial commitments at this stage.
I would also note that Mr R appears to have been asked by Santander in late April, 
when he made his application, whether his business had been affected by the 
coronavirus pandemic. I appreciate there may have been some confusion about this, as 
Mr R has told us his direct salary income was not affected, but Santander appears to 
have understood that Mr Rs business hadnt been affected at all. I think its reasonable 
to assume it had been affected, as Mr R took a BBLS loan, and its a condition of those 
loans that a business must have been adversely affected by the pandemic.
Whether a business needed additional Government support to get through this 
extremely difficult period can be an important factor in assessing lending, and I think that 
if Mr R had explained the position of his business at this point, Santander was likely to 
have indicated that it could have difficulties lending to him.
Santander treated Mr R as self-employed, although he wasnt
Mr R said he wasnt self-employed, he earned a salary, but Santander applied rules for
lending to the self-employed to him. Mr R said it was very wrong for Santander to take
account of what was happening with his business, when his income was clearly set out 
on his wage slips, and the position of his business had no impact on this.
I dont think Santander has made a mistake about Mr Rs legal position, in applying a 
policy to him that it also applies to self-employed persons. Rather, I think Santander 
applies the same overall policy to people who are, in various different ways, their own 
boss. So, regardless of the underlying legal structure, if someones income is derived 
entirely from a business they run, then Santander says it will look at the overall health of 
that business, to see if the income the borrower will rely on to repay any borrowing is 
sustainable. 
I know Mr R says his income is a salary, which isnt affected by the financial position of 
his company, but I would respectfully disagree with that. Mr R is the sole director of the 
company he draws a salary from. His ongoing employment depends on the financial 
viability of that company, and upon business decisions which Mr R himself makes. So, although I understand that the legal entity which pays Mr Rs wages (the company) isnt 
the same as the legal entity which Santander would be lending to (Mr R himself), the 
health of that company is directly relevant to whether Mr R will continue to receive his 
salary. In short, the position of his company is relevant to his ability to repay the lending. 
So I think that the policy Santander has applied here, considering the financial viability 
of that company, is a fair and reasonable one for Santander to have applied in this 
situation.
How Santander assessed Mr Rs income, and reached its lending decision
Mr R made a number of specific allegations about how Santander had dealt with his 
income. Mr R said the loan he took under the BBLS was treated as a personal liability, 
and thats illegal. I would also disagree with this. I dont think that Santander did actually 
take this loan into account  it reached its decision on the basis that Mr Rs business 
wasnt then in profit. But I also think that it wouldnt have been unfair for Santander to 
take this loan into account as part of considering the financial viability of his company.
Mr R also said Santander disregarded his salary. I dont think thats right. I think its 
decision not to lend, made on 6 July 2022, was based on the financial position of his 
company. Ive explained why I think that was a relevant consideration. The payment of a 
salary to Mr R by this company wouldnt override that.
Mr R said that Santander held a large credit card debt against him. But again, I cant see 
that Santanders decision of July 2022 was made with any reference to his credit card 
debt.
During its conversation with Mr R on 9 August, it appears that Santander didnt yet know
about Mr Rs greatly increased credit card borrowing. Mr R didnt tell Santander about 
this on this call, and he didnt then respond to any of its requests for further information. 
So I cannot see that this credit card debt was ever a factor in Santanders decisions.
Mr R also said he couldnt understand why Santander would turn him down, as there 
was plenty of equity in his home to support this lending, meaning Santanders money 
wasnt at risk. But thats not how Santander assesses lending. Its required to satisfy 
itself that the borrower can pay back whats owed from their income. It cant base its 
lending decisions on being able to repossess someones home to repay the debt.
Mr R then said after Santander decided to reduce the amount it would lend him, it 
wanted to know how he would fund the rest of the property purchase he was committed 
to. Mr R didnt think that was fair, because if hed been borrowing to buy a car or to do 
home improvements, Santander wouldnt have asked for the same information. But I 
think Santander was aware that Mr R might be taking on another, potentially quite large, 
debt. I do think thats relevant to whether Mr R could then afford to repay any additional 
borrowing from Santander. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Santander 
to ask for more details about Mr Rs other new mortgage.
Santander repeatedly asked Mr R for documents he couldnt supply
Mr R said Santander repeatedly asked him for documentation he couldnt supply. He 
said it wanted a self-assessment tax form, which he couldnt send because he wasnt 
self-employed. And he said it was Santanders insistence on this that led to him seeking 
lending elsewhere in August 2022.
Santander has shown our service an email dated 4 May where Mr R attached his SA302form. And it has sent us the call where Santander makes clear that what it needed in 
August 2022 to reassess Mr Rs application wasnt a new SA302, or other returns 
associated with self-employment, but a fresh accountants certificate, validating the 
information Mr R had supplied on his 2022 accounts. So I havent been able to see that 
Santander did ask Mr R for documentation he just didnt have.
Delay in assessing Mr Rs accountants certificate
Although I dont think that Santander made a mistake when it initially suggested it might 
be able to lend to Mr R, or with its eventual decision not to lend, I do think there is an 
area where Santander clearly did make a mistake. Santander received an accountants 
certificate for the year ending June 2021 from Mr R on 4 May 2022.
Santander then relied on the contents of this certificate when it decided not to lend on 6 
July. So the decision Santander eventually reached not to lend, was based on 
information it had held for two months.
Mr R said what Santander eventually discovered on the application was actually a 
mistake, he said it was literally just a case of having ticked the wrong box. Mr R hasnt 
told us what that mistake was, but I can see that his accountant indicated on this 
certificate that his business was not solvent. I understand Mr R might consider this was 
a mistake, although I cannot see that hed addressed this with Santander and provided 
a revised form. But I also dont think this is why Santander took its decision. I think it 
was concerned that, after the extremely difficult trading conditions for businesses 
caused by the pandemic, Mr Rs business accounts showed a loss for the last year. So 
it couldnt see that his income, in terms of the salary he was paid by this business, 
would be sustainable for the lifetime of the lending it was making to him. I dont think 
that was a mistake by Santander.
But I still think Santander did make a mistake here, because it had all the information it
needed to make a lending decision for Mr R at the start of May, and it didnt make that
decision until the start of July.
Santander said its process is to review all the documentation for an application at once, 
so it didnt review the accountants certificate until it also received information on the 
commercial mortgage Mr R intended to use for the bulk of the property purchase costs. 
But I dont think thats right. Santander did check this document in early May, we know 
this because it referred to this document then, when it initially said that it thought it could 
only lend Mr R rather less than he wanted. So it had checked this document in early 
May, and didnt realise that information on this certificate meant it wouldnt lend. 
I think Santander could have told Mr R at this stage that it wouldnt lend to him at all, 
under the policy it has for those who run their own business. That means I need to 
consider the effect of this delay on Mr R.
Mr R would like me to ask Santander to pay the difference between the interest rate it 
would have charged him on an extension to his first charge mortgage, and the interest 
hes now paying on his second charge lending. He says that interest rates went up while 
Santander delayed. 
I know that Mr R had already decided, by early May, to take out a commercial mortgage
rather than accept personal liability for all the borrowing he wanted. So that decision 
wasnt impacted by any delays on Santanders part.But Mr R still thought then that Santander might lend him enough to cover the other 
costs of this purchase, including the deposit he had to pay, when he should already 
have been told it wouldnt.
In considering how this delay impacted Mr R, I have to take into account that Mr Rs
business had shown a loss in the previous trading year. I dont think Mr R was likely to 
have been successful in an application for personal mortgage lending elsewhere, while 
his business was running at a loss. So he couldnt have made a successful application 
until his new accounts were ready, in any event.
It appears that Mr Rs new annual accounts, to the end of June 2022, werent available 
until August 2022. Mr R told us, and Santander, that these indicated a return to profit.
Santander then said it would consider lending to him, as long as the information on 
those accounts was ratified by his accountant. But Mr R doesnt appear to have sent 
Santander this information. Instead, he chose to pursue other lending elsewhere, and he 
took out a second charge mortgage, which is always likely to incur higher rates of 
interest than an extension to the borrowing on his first charge mortgage.
Because it isnt likely that Mr R could have borrowed more on his mortgage before his 
new accounts were available, and because Mr R then chose to seek lending elsewhere, 
rather than renew his application with Santander, I dont think I can fairly ask Santander 
to cover any additional costs of borrowing Mr R has incurred in this case.
But I do think Santander caused a delay in responding to Mr R, and put him to some 
trouble in getting further information which wasnt then likely to change the outcome of 
his lending application. For that reason, I think Santander should pay Mr R £200 in 
compensation. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander replied to agree with my provisional decision. 
Mr R sent a very detailed reply, which both disagreed with my provisional decision, and 
raised new concerns. I have grouped the comments he has made into headings.
Advice given before Mr R committed to his purchase  was Mr R self-employed?
Mr R said Santander should have told him at the start that he would be treated as self-
employed, and if hed known this, he might not have made the same choices. But I also think 
it is somewhat unclear how Mr R may have described his income and status to Santander 
when he first asked about extending his mortgage. Mr R has told us that when he first spoke 
to Santander, I confirmed that I was the director of a limited company, I paid myself through 
PAYE and earned an annual salary.. But Mr R also said that at no point during these initial 
discussions was my employment status discussed, apart from clarification about the amount 
I earned, and where my income derived from.I said in my provisional decision that I did think there may have been some initial 
misunderstanding about Mr Rs status, but I hadnt been able to see that misunderstanding 
was Santanders fault. Ive reviewed what Mr R has said about this carefully, and I still think 
that its most likely that any initial confusion about how Mr Rs application would be assessed 
isnt something it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Santander responsible for.
Mr R also pointed me to Santanders website information about mortgage applications made 
by the self-employed. He felt this was misleading and unhelpful. 
Ive reviewed Mr Rs complaint in detail, and I havent been able to find that Mr R has 
suggested previously that he was misled by Santanders website into applying for a 
mortgage with it. It seems likely that Mr R applied to Santander simply because his existing 
mortgage was with Santander, and he wanted to extend that borrowing. 
The suggestion Mr R was misled by this website into choosing to apply to Santander 
appears to me to be a new issue in this complaint. I cant consider new issues here, which 
the bank hasnt yet had a chance to respond to. So I make no further comment on this point. 
Evidence Santander should have considered 
Mr R said Santander hadnt followed its own guidelines on evidence it would require. He said 
the website set out that it would ask for either a self-assessment form, or an accountants 
certificate. He said these guidelines said where income is solely derived from one company, 
SA302 forms can also be used to support proof of income. So he thought thats what 
Santander should have based its decisions on. 
Ive explained why, as Mr R is the sole director of the company that pays his salary, I 
consider the financial performance of that company was directly relevant to Santanders 
decision whether or not to lend. I still think that.
Ive also read the website information that Mr R wanted me to look at, and I dont think that 
gives Mr R the choice of which evidence Santander should rely on in assessing his lending 
application. But I note Mr R did in fact send both his SA302 form and his accountants 
certificate to Santander in early May.
Mr R has also said Santander should have taken account of the income his new property 
could generate, and he said it never asked about this. I dont think Santander had ever given 
any commitment to take account of potential future income from this property, and, broadly 
speaking, its for Santander to decide what income evidence it will consider in this mortgage 
application. I dont think what Santander has and has not considered in Mr Rs case is unfair. 
The reasons for Santanders decision.
Mr R has made a number of different allegations about the reasons behind Santanders 
decisions  including that it used outdated salary figures for him; that it did take into account 
his credit card lending, and the position of BBLS loan made to his company; that it cancelled 
his application because the 2022 accountants certificate wasnt available; and that it finally 
refused to lend because interest rates had changed. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought Santander had decided in early July 2022 not 
to lend to Mr R, solely because his business hadnt been running at a profit, according to the 
latest available accounts. I based that decision on a review of Santanders internal notes. I 
still think that. I also note that Santander did then say it would reconsider if Mr R supplied a 2022 
accountants certificate, evidencing the return to profit that Mr R said had happened by end 
June 2022. Santander discussed this with Mr R in early August, when he said his new 
accounts had been done. It asked again a number of times for this certificate, and only 
closed his application when he failed to respond to these requests.
The timing of Mr Rs decision to reduce his borrowing amount
Mr R stressed that he wanted to borrow the full amount for this purchase from Santander, by 
extending his mortgage. And he said it was only once Santander told him it couldnt lend him 
as much as he initially requested, that he reduced his borrowing request and decided to take 
a commercial mortgage. 
I said in my provisional decision that Id listened to the call of 3 May, where Mr R said he 
wanted to discuss changes to his application. Mr R says on this call that Santander had 
previously suggested it might need to extend the term of his mortgage, to lend him the full 
amount he wanted. Mr R thought about this, and decided he wanted to borrow less on his 
personal mortgage, and would get a commercial mortgage to cover the rest. 
Theres no suggestion on this call that Santander had already told him it couldnt lend him as 
much as it had thought. And it is clear Santander didnt have the information it would need to 
make any final lending decision, at the time of this call. His accountants certificate wasnt 
received by Santander until the next day. Its only after this that Santanders notes suggest it 
would have to reduce the amount it could lend. 
So I still think that its most likely that the decision to reduce his personal borrowing and take 
out a commercial mortgage was taken by Mr R himself, not in response to Santander saying 
it would lend less than hed requested. 
Whether Santander asked for documents Mr R couldnt provide
Mr R said again that Santander asked for documents he couldnt provide. Mr R said he was 
asked for several copies of the accountants certificate, each one asking for different 
information. 
I havent been able to see evidence of repeated requests for an accountants certificate in 
different forms or formats. Santanders notes show only one request for Mr Rs 2021 
accountants certificate, which was received in early May. After that, there is no further 
request for an accountants certificate until after Mr R had offered fresh accounts up to June 
2022. I also note that Santander has a standard form accountants certification, which does 
appear to be what Mr R sent. For all these reasons, I dont think its likely that Mr R was 
repeatedly asked for an accountants certificate, in different forms.
Mr R also said he was asked for copies of a self-assessment tax return which did not exist 
(although other documentation was provided). But Santander said Mr R sent it an SA302, 
which is a self-assessment tax form, in early May. 
Ive seen the email Mr R sent on 4 May 2022, when Mr R attached his accountants 
certificate. Mr R also said in that email that he was including an SA302 form, although this 
had not been requested, because he thought this might help with Santanders assessment. 
On 6 May he sent an SA301, and his last three months of wage slips. 
After this, Santander only appears to have been waiting for details of his commercial 
mortgage. Mr R said his commercial mortgage was in place on 13 May, but he didnt send through full 
documentation to show this until 29 June  Mr R said then that there had been delays in 
surveying the property. 
So I havent been able to see that Santander repeatedly asked him for information, including 
self-assessment forms, that Mr R couldnt provide.
Finally, Mr R said he was asked for end of year accounts before his companys annual 
trading year was up. I do think it is likely that Mr R was told that his application would be 
considered based on the last full year of trading that his accountants certificate covered. Mr 
Rs 2021 accounts showed a loss, but he said the company returned to profit in 2022. 
Because of that, I also think its likely that Santander would have encouraged Mr R to submit 
a new set of accounts once those were ready. But Ive seen nothing to suggest to me that 
Santander hadnt understood these wouldnt be ready until after end June 2022. 
Whether Santander caused delays in deciding Mr Rs application
Mr R repeated that Santander had caused delays in assessing his application. He ascribed 
this to various causes, including a request for information he couldnt supply, and a request 
for information about his commercial mortgage. 
I accepted in my provisional decision that Santander had enough information on 4 May to 
reach a decision on lending to Mr R. It should have been able to tell him in early May 2022, 
that it wouldnt lend to him on the basis of the accounts available to it, because his business 
was then running at a loss. But it didnt tell him this until early July.
The impact of Santanders delay on Mr R
I said in my provisional decision that it didnt seem likely Mr R could have obtained lending 
elsewhere while his latest available accountants certificate showed his company was 
running at a loss. So I said it was likely that Mr R would always have had to wait until a new 
year of accounts was available, to get the borrowing he wanted, whether from Santander or 
elsewhere. And we know interest rates went up in this time. 
Mr R has challenged this. He says its not fair for me to draw a conclusion about whether he 
could have got the lending elsewhere, and he said the issue isnt about that anyway, its 
about what Santander did. He wanted Santander to pay a £6,300 auction house fee, as well 
as extra legal fees and higher borrowing costs he had incurred. He wanted it to pay for lost 
rental income, while he wasnt able to complete the purchase. He said he wanted me to hold 
Santander to account. 
It may help if I set out here how Ive approached this case. Ive found Santander did cause 
delays in this case, it gave Mr R a decision in July that it could have given him in May. 
But then I have to think about what would have happened, if things hadnt gone wrong. And 
what I think went wrong here wasnt the decision Santander reached, not to lend to Mr R. 
The mistake was in how long Santander took to decide that. 
What should have happened here, was Mr R should have known in early May, that 
Santander wouldnt lend to him, because of information on the accountants certificate he 
had, covering his 2021 accounts. But it might have been able to lend once he had an 
accountants certificate based on his 2022 accounts. 
Any mortgage lender Mr R asked about borrowing, would also need to be sure Mr R could 
repay all the lending made, over the longer term. I note that Mr R himself accepts both that his business wasnt in profit in 2021, and that a business which isnt in profit cannot continue 
to pay a salary to its employees in the longer term. So I do still think its unlikely that Mr R 
would have secured any personal lending elsewhere, before his 2022 accounts were ready.
I understand that Mr Rs new 2022 accounts were ready in early August. 
I have explained that, if Mr R had been told by Santander that it couldnt lend to him, in May, 
I still think its likely he would have had to wait until his new accounts were ready, in early 
August, to get lending elsewhere. Thats why I think its likely Mr R would still have had to 
wait until early August to secure the lending he wanted, even if Santander hadnt made the 
mistake Ive identified. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this case for the 
compensation amount to cover the issues Mr R has highlighted above.
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr R £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman