DRN-3186134
The complaint
Mr P complains about Vitality Life Limiteds handling of his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr P holds an income protection policy with Vitality, the aim of which is to provide an income 
in the event he cant work because of illness or injury. The policy has a deferred period of 
one month.
On 19 May 2020, Mr P stopped work in his manual role after breaking his ankle. He 
submitted a claim to Vitality. This was accepted by Vitality and payment made in February 
2021.
Mr P was unhappy with the length of time Vitality took to assess his claim. Vitality accepted it 
took too long to assess the claim, and offered Mr P total compensation of £450. Unhappy 
with this, Mr P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the compensation 
offered by Vitality was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality accepted there were some delays and that it didnt always respond to Mr P within its 
normal turnaround times. Ive considered whether those delays were avoidable or 
unavoidable, as I think compensation only ought to be provided for avoidable delays, 
regardless of an insurers normal turnaround times.
I see that Vitality didnt log Mr Ps claim until 9 June 2020, despite Mr P notifying Vitality on 
22 May 2020 that he wished to claim. Also, when Mr P provided Vitality with further 
information on 10 June 2020, Vitality didnt contact his GP in order to obtain his medical 
records until 10 July 2020.
The GP information was received on 19 August 2020. Vitality advised Mr P that his claim 
was valid, but it needed more information from the GP before it could pay the claim. The 
reason for that was because Vitality wanted to know more about a shoulder injury that Mr P 
had. 
Vitality asked Mr P why he hadnt disclosed his shoulder injury when the policy was taken 
out. Mr P said he had been told he didnt need to declare this, and asked for a copy of the 
sales call. Although he requested this on 18 October 2020, Vitality couldnt retrieve the call 
until 30 November 2020. 
Vitalitys underwriters considered the matter further, and decided to continue to offer Mr P 
cover, but it would exclude his shoulder condition. In January 2021, Vitality advised Mr P of 
this, and required him to accept the new terms before it could deal with his income protection 
claim. Then in mid-January 2021, Vitality confirmed it would be making a payment for Mr Ps 
claim. However, this was delayed until mid-February.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration with the time it took Vitality to assess his claim. However, 
I dont think all of the delays were avoidable. I say that because during its assessment of the 
claim, Vitality legitimately discovered that Mr P hadnt told it about a shoulder injury when 
taking out the policy (this is known as misrepresentation). 
In cases such as this, we think its reasonable for an insurer to look into any 
misrepresentation before paying an otherwise valid claim. The reason for that is because the 
misrepresentation may result in the policy being cancelled from the start. 
However, there clearly were some delays at the start of the claim, and also after Vitality had 
confirmed that it would be making the payment in January 2021. Though I think the £450 
total compensation that Vitality offered was reasonable in the circumstances, and reflects the 
inconvenience caused to Mr P. 
Mr P went back to work in September 2020, and says he did this before his ankle had fully 
recovered because his claim hadnt been accepted. However, I agree with our investigator 
that its unlikely his claim wouldve been settled by that point even if there hadnt been any 
delays caused by Vitality, given the misrepresentation that Vitality discovered and needed to 
look into. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Vitality Life Limited 
has offered fair compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman