DRN-4359808
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under his mobile 
and gadget insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr C was abroad when he had his bag stolen with his mobile phone and other items inside. 
He says hed turned away from his belongings to enquire about hiring a canoe when 
someone took his bag, and that it all happened very quickly.
Great Lakes declined the claim, relying on a policy exclusion for loss arising from the phone 
being left unattended. Mr C was unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint which 
he brought to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt think Great Lakes had applied the policy exclusion fairly on the basis 
that Mr Cs belongings were within a metre of him when the theft occurred. She 
recommended that Great Lakes pay the claim. 
Mr C accepted our Investigators findings, but Great Lakes didnt. It said Mr Cs testimony 
when first reporting the claim was that hed left his bag. As such, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy covers him for theft of his mobile phone. The terms and conditions say it will 
not cover:
any claim where you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere unattended and it is 
at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged. For example  where your gadget is left at 
the side of a sports pitch whilst you are participating in the sport.
The policy defines unattended as the gadget(s) are neither on your person or within your 
sight and/or reach.
When Mr C first reported his claim, he described the incident as follows:
I was on the beach, I have went to enquire about a canoe, and I come back and my 
bag was stolen, with my mobile phone in it and other items.
During the claim, Mr C provided further detail on the circumstances of the theft saying:
My device was in my manbag at the time of the theft, along with all my other items 
including bank cards, driving licence, travel card and money. I was roughly a meter 
away from my manbag when this happened. I was pricing up a canoe from a local 
man when this happened so Im assuming this is when it got took because I went to 
pay the man from my bag and it had gone, it happened so fast!!
Whilst I can understand why Great Lakes would be under the impression that Mr C 
physically left his bag from the way hed described things in his initial claim submission, hes 
provided more clarity afterwards to say that he was only a metre away. 
This further clarification was provided before Great Lakes declined the claim, so I dont think 
Mr C has changed his story in order to get cover under his policy. In fact, Great Lakes has 
relied on Mr Cs second testimony to decline the claim as this is what it quotes in its rejection 
letter. 
I dont think Mr C being one metre away from his bag means he left it unattended. The bag is 
still within his reach. And it could be seen from the position he was in, even if hed 
momentarily turned away from it to ask a man a question. So I dont think Great Lakes has 
satisfactorily shown the exclusion applies to this claim. 
As such, in the absence of any other applicable policy exclusion, Great Lakes should pay 
Mr Cs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to pay Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman