DRN-3539134
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account then closed it without giving him 
sufficient notice. Hed like compensation for the impact caused to him. 
What happened
Mr F had an e-money account with Revolut. 
Mr F also had a trading account with Revolut. However, Mr Fs trading account was 
managed by a separate legal entity  this means if Mr F wants to complain about the selling 
of his shares hell need to raise a separate complaint. 
On 15 July 2020 Revolut asked Mr F for documents as part of a due diligence check. Then 
on 5 August 2020 Revolut restricted his account. 
Mr F explained hed been trading via his Revolut account since March 2020  and hes also 
been investing on behalf of friends and family. 
Mr F provided a number of documents to Revolut but they werent satisfied with the 
documentation provided and made the decision to close his e-money account on 
16 November 2020 and Mr F was asked to move his funds out within 24 hours. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Revoluts actions. He explained the block and subsequent selling of 
his shares cost him £40,000. 
Revolut reviewed Mr Fs complaint but explained theyd acted fairly in restricting and closing 
his account. They explained that Mr Fs breached the terms and conditions of his account by 
investing money from others. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Revoluts response so complained to our service. 
On Mr Fs complaint coming to our service Revolut offered Mr F £50 compensation, but he 
didnt accept it. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. They thought Revolut acted fairly in 
blocking and closing Mr Fs account  but thought that his funds should have been released  
much sooner  and by 1 September 2020. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr F was compensated £50 plus 8% interest on Mr Fs 
funds from 1 September 2020 to the day they were released on 17 November 2020. 
Mr F didnt agree, and it was referred to me to decide. 
Ive previously reviewed Mr Fs complaint and came to the same conclusion as our 
investigator but for slightly different reasons. I explained that Mr Fs trading account was 
managed by a separate legal entity  which meant if Mr F wanted to complain about the 
selling of his shares hed need to raise a separate complaint. 
Mr F didnt accept my provisional decision. In response he said: 
He didnt invest on behalf of family and friends, instead he borrowed some money to 
invest  and used his own funds
He experienced major losses because companies he invested in went bankrupt
Revolut deprived him of the ability to invest elsewhere
Hed like to understand the procedure which determines why 25 days is considered 
the right timeframe for the review to be completed
Hed like a clear explanation as to the legal basis for the redress awarded
Hed like to understand what actions Revolut took when carrying out source of funds 
checks
As Mr F didnt accept my decision Ive reviewed his response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs submitted extensive documentation to our investigators view. Id like to reassure Mr F 
that Ive reviewed all the documentation hes submitted, including his response to my 
provisional decision. But, the majority of Mr Fs comments relate to Revoluts decision to sell 
his shares and lost investment opportunities. For the reason Ive already outlined, Mr Fs 
trading account was managed by a different legal entity therefore I wont be able to comment 
on Mr Fs investments in my decision.  
Account restriction
Mr Fs account was restricted on 5 August 2020.  Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their 
ability to review accounts and suspend them when necessary  and I think they initially 
followed these terms and conditions fairly. It follows, I cant say they acted unfairly in 
blocking access to Mr Fs account. However, I do need to think about whether the review 
was completed as quickly as Id expect. Having reviewed the evidence supplied by Revolut 
and considered best practice in reviewing accounts  I think Mr Fs account should have 
been unrestricted much sooner than it was. And by 1 September 2020 at the latest. 
In restricting Mr Fs funds until the 17 November 2020 Revolut deprived Mr F of access to 
his funds and the opportunity to invest them. 
Mr F has asked how I calculated the 25 day timeframe regarding a reasonable time for the 
review. Theres no set timeframe for how long a business should take to complete a review, 
and itll depend on the individual circumstances of the case. Having looked at the activity 
Revolut carried out in Mr Fs case Im satisfied this should have been completed by 
1 September 2020. 
Account closure
Mr Fs account was closed on 16 November 2020 with immediate notice. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of Mr Fs account, and the criteria allowing them to close Mr Fs 
account without notice. I understand this will disappoint him but having done so Im satisfied 
Revolut acted fairly in choosing not to give Mr F notice. Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact on Mr F from Revoluts actions in failing to release his funds by 
1 September 2020. And Im satisfied they deprived Mr F of access to his funds during this 
time  and in line with our usual approach they should pay Mr F 8% interest from 
1 September 2020 to 16 November 2020. 
Revolut offered Mr F £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused, and Im satisfied this 
is fair compensation.
Mr Fs queried the redress thats been awarded based on previous decisions issued by our 
service. I realise this case is very important to Mr F  and hed like to receive fair 
compensation. Each case brought to our service is considered on its own merits. And 
having reviewed the impact of Revoluts actions on Mr F Im satisfied 8% interest and £50 
compensation is in line with what Id expect Revolut to reward. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr F £50 compensation
Pay Mr F 8% interest on any funds in his e-money account from 1 September 2020 
to 16 November 2020
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman