DRN-1576360
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct):
held him responsible for repaying debts on credit accounts which his ex-wife, without 
his knowledge or consent, opened and operated in his name; and
placed defaults and other markers against his credit file in respect of those debts.
  
What happened
Mr P is a vulnerable individual, and suffers from complex mental and physical health issues. 
Because of this, in 2014 and 2015 his ex-wife was able, fraudulently, to open three credit 
accounts with Shop Direct in Mr Ps name, and to build up debts on those accounts.
When these debts werent paid, Shop Direct defaulted the accounts and put default markers 
in respect of them on Mr Ps credit file. It also registered an evasion of payment notice 
against Mr P with the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) in respect of one of 
the accounts. Shop Direct sold the debts to third parties who tried to recover payment from 
Mr P.
Mr P complained to Shop Direct, through the debt purchasers, that he was being pursued for 
debts that werent his. He wanted Shop Direct to stop him being chased for these debts, and 
to remove the default and other markers from his credit file. Shop Direct said there was 
nothing to suggest to it that the debts werent Mr Ps at the time they were being incurred. So 
it wouldnt do what he asked.
After this service became involved, Shop Direct accepted that Mr P had been a victim of 
fraud. It agreed to:
remove the three default markers from Mr Ps credit file; and
replace the CIFAS evasion of payment marker with a CIFAS protective marker to 
show that Mr P was a victim of fraud.
 
Our investigator noted that Shop Direct had also said it would ensure that Mr P wasnt 
pursued for any debt that remained outstanding on the accounts. However, she thought 
Shop Direct could have done more in December 2018 and March 2019, when it became 
aware of Mr Ps concerns, to investigate them and put matters right.
Mr P felt he was being called a liar and a fraudster. Shop Directs failure to take his 
complaints seriously had caused him a lot of upset, which was accentuated by his 
vulnerabilities. As compensation for this she recommended that Shop Direct pay him 
compensation of £500.Mr P said the compensation suggested wasnt enough to reflect the damage to his 
reputation by being called a liar and a fraudster.
Shop Direct responded to say, in summary, that:
it only became aware of Mr Ps concerns in December 2018, and again in March 
2019, when Mr P contacted the debt purchaser, and it passed on Mr Ps concerns to 
Shop Direct;
when Mr P contacted Shop Direct itself in April 2019, it followed its usual procedure 
and told him he would have to take this up with the purchaser of the debt;
once this service became involved and supplied further information, Shop Direct 
accepted Mr P had been the victim of fraud and agreed to amend the default and 
other markers; and
it was now willing to accept the investigators recommendation to pay Mr P 
compensation of £500, rather than the £200 it had previously offered him, for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I should remind Mr P that the person who is responsible for the trouble that both 
he and Shop Direct have suffered is his ex-wife, who fraudulently ran up debts in his name 
with Shop Direct. I accept Shop Directs argument that it carried out reasonable checks 
before setting up the accounts, and wasnt aware of the deception.
However, once Shop Direct became aware that Mr P was saying he wasnt responsible for 
the debts I dont think it did enough to investigate this. I think his vulnerability should have 
been obvious to its investigators, and they should have done more to support him.
The failure of Shop Direct to take what he was saying seriously and investigate it properly 
caused Mr P significant distress. Like the investigator, I think fair compensation for this is 
£500, which Shop Direct now agrees. I also think it should take the other steps set out below 
which I've explained to it and it hasn't disputed.
Putting things right
I think Shop Direct should pay Mr P this amount, as well as talking the other steps set out 
below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
to:
1. remove from Mr Ps credit file the three default markers in respect of the debts 
created by his ex-wife; 
 
2. take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that Mr P isnt pursued for any balance 
remaining outstanding of these debts;
 3. replace the CIFAS evasion of payment marker with a CIFAS protective marker to 
show that Mr P was a victim of fraud; and
 
4. pay Mr P £500 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman