DRN-4146892
The complaint
Mr C believes Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) acted irresponsibly by approving a hire purchase agreement hed applied 
for.
Mr C is being represented in this complaint by Ms K. However, for ease of reference, Ill refer 
to any actions or comments by either Mr C or Ms K as being by Mr C.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr C was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. There was an advance payment of £2,509.35 and the agreement was for 
£20,794.65 over 48 months, with monthly repayments of £316.11 and a final payment of 
£9,571.25.
Mr C has complained that VWFS didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said that he was sold the finance on an insufficient affordability justification, as well as 
being upsold unnecessary items by the supplying dealership. The dealership bought back 
the car from Mr C and the agreement was settled on 3 September 2021.
VWFS considered the complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr C could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
VWFS said they carried out checks to see if the finance was affordable, but they werent 
able to evidence these checks. Because of this, our investigator said they couldnt say if the 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. So, they considered what VWFS wouldve likely 
seen had these checks been done. The investigator considered Mr Cs bank statements 
and, from these, said they thought the finance wasnt affordable.
However, the investigator initially said that, because Mr C had sold the car privately, and 
cleared the outstanding finance, then VWFS didnt need to do anything more.
VWFS accepted the investigators view, but Mr C didnt. He said that the car hadnt been 
sold privately but had been purchased back by the dealership. And he raised the issue of the 
deposit being refunded to him, as he was now without both the car supplied by VWFS and 
the car the dealership took in part-exchange at the start of the transaction.
VWFS agreed that the deposit should be refunded to Mr C, but there was a disagreement as 
to what deposit was paid, and how much should be refunded. The investigator reissued their 
view and said that VWFS should refund £2,076.52 (the difference between what Mr C had 
paid to VWFS and the cash value of the car, plus statutory interest). While VWFS agreed 
with this, Mr C didnt. And he thought the refund should be a minimum of £2,968.66.
In his comments Mr C also raised a number of issues with how the dealership acted, 
including, but not limited to, how he thought some of their actions were fraudulent, and his 
belief that theyd overfinanced the car.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did VWFS make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that VWFS didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Cs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
In this instance, its not disputed that VWFS checks werent reasonable or proportionate. Or 
that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown that the finance wasnt affordable 
to Mr C at the point he took this out.
As all parties are in agreement with this, my decision will focus on what I think VWFS should 
do to put things right.
Id also like to clarify that Im only considering the actions of VWFS. While I appreciate that 
Mr C isnt happy with the actions of the dealership, as they arent regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, I dont have the authority to consider what theyve done. As such, any 
concerns Mr C has about the dealership will need to be raised with them directly. 
In circumstances such as these, when the car has already been returned by the customer, it 
is our normal approach to ask the financial business to refund to the customer anything 
theyve paid over and above the cash price of the car, plus interest.
However, in these circumstances, the dealership purchased the car back for £20,350, settled 
the £19,818.66 outstanding on the finance, and refunded the £531.34 difference to Mr C. As 
such, any remedy I direct will take this into account, and the £531.34 will be deducted from 
anything I ask VWFS to pay.
The main point of disagreement in this matter is the value of the car and the amount of 
deposit Mr C paid. And this goes directly to the amount Mr C believes he should receive 
from VWFS.
Ive seen a dealership vehicle order form, which is dated 11 August 2020 and shows an 
estimated delivery date of 31 December 2020. This clearly shows that the base price of the 
car was £18,908.33. However, with adjustments, delivery charge, registration fee, road tax, 
the additions Mr C had requested, and VAT; this brought the total cost of the car to £23,304.Ive also seen the dealerships vehicle sales invoice, dated 4 November 2020. This also 
takes into consideration the adjustments, charges, fees, taxes, additions Mr C had asked for, 
and VAT. And it shows the net cost of the car was £23,304.
Finally, the finance agreement Mr C signed on 2 November 2020 shows the Vehicle Cash 
Price to be £23,304.
Given the above and based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the net cost of the car was 
£23,304.
Turning to the deposit, the order form also shows that a £900 deposit had been paid, and 
that there was a part exchange allowance of £2,600. However, this also says there was a 
finance deposit allowance of £131.65; that the amount to be financed was £20,794.65; and 
that Mr C still needed to pay -£1,122. 
Mr C has said that this shows he paid a deposit of £3,500. However, the order form also 
shows a £131.65 deposit allowance and that Mr C has overpaid by £1,122. As such, this 
order form actually indicates Mr C paid a net deposit of £2,509.65.
But the sales invoice also shows Part Payment Received £250 and Net P/Ex Allowance 
£2,600. This left £20,454 to be financed. However, the invoice also says Due from: [Mr C] -
340.65 and Due from: [VWFS] 20794.65. 
VWFS have interpreted this invoice to mean that Mr C received cash back from the deposit, 
so the actual deposit he paid was £2,259.35. However, this is based on a deposit of £2,600 
being paid, and its clear from the invoice that the deposit actually totalled £2,850. As such, I 
disagree with VWFS on this. And based on their calculation, the deposit Mr C paid should be 
£2,509.35.
Finally, the hire purchase agreement Mr C signed on 2 November 2020 clearly says the 
amount to be financed was £20,794.65, and that Mr C paid an advance payment of 
£2,509.35. This is the amount of the net deposit showing on the sales invoice and is equal to 
the net deposit showing on the order form.
Mr C has provided evidence that he paid the dealership £250 on 29 August 2020, and £650 
on 2 November 2020. While these payments total £900, and its not disputed Mr C received 
£2,600 part exchange for the car he traded in, it doesnt follow that the whole of this £3,500 
was paid to VWFS. And, from what Ive seen, some of this mayve been retained by the 
dealership to pay for GAP insurance and key insurance. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that the deposit was £2,509.35. And its for Mr C to raise any 
difference in what he paid, and what was allocated to the deposit, with the dealership.
The Statement of Account thats been provided shows that Mr C paid VWFS a total of 
£2,595 in payments before the agreement was settled, and that the settlement amount was 
£19,818.66. As such, when looking at the total of the amounts involved, it gives the following 
calculation:
Finance Settlement: £19,816.16
plus Deposit Paid*: £2,509.35
plus Payments made by Mr C:   £2,595.00
Total paid by Mr C: £24,920.51
less Cash Price of the Car: £23,304.00
less Sale Surplus already paid to Mr C: £531.34
Total to be Refunded to Mr C: £1,085.17This differs from the amount calculated by the investigator, as they included the full £3,500 
Mr C paid to the dealership. But, for the reasons stated above, I dont think this should all be 
taken into consideration.
So, my provisional decision is that VWFS should refund Mr C £1,085.17* (as per the 
calculation detailed above), and apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated 
from the date the agreement was settled to the date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
*if any of the deposit paid was by way of a dealer or finance allowance or contribution, this 
amount should be deducted before any interest is calculated and refund paid.
Responses
VWFS accepted my provisional decision with no further comments. However, Mr C 
responded and said, based on my calculations, he would be out of pocket by £1,883.49 and 
would also be without a car. He acknowledged that the figures on the paperwork he received 
from the dealership differed from the amount that was paid to VWFS, but he says this was 
because of devious practices by the dealership.
 Mr C also said that he never received a refund of £1,122, but this was the cost of the 
insurances which was added to the total amount financed from VWFS by [the dealership] 
i.e. over financing.
Because of this, Mr C didnt think he was being put back into the position he wouldve been 
had the finance never been agreed. And that VWFS were failing to take responsibility for 
the outlets who sell their cars [and for the dealership] to be made to sell responsibly to young 
people.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs comment that he would be out of pocket by £1,883.49 is based on the £3,500 he paid 
to the dealership all being applied to the deposit. However, for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision (repeated above) I was satisfied that the £3,500 was not all used for the 
deposit and some of this money was used to pay for insurances.
In fact, by referring to the GAP, SMART insurance etc. he took out, Mr C acknowledges the 
dealership used some of the £3,500 to cover these premiums. And the resulting lower figure 
paid as a deposit to VWFS meant the amount he needed to borrow was higher  something 
Mr C refers to as over financing. As I explained in my provisional decision, if Mr C is 
unhappy with the actions of the dealership, this is something he will need to raise with the 
dealership direct  whilst the dealership may be arranging finance with VWFS, this doesnt 
make VWFS responsible for their actions.
As such, Mr Cs comments dont change my view, and given this, I see no compelling reason 
why I shouldnt now adopt my provisional view as my final decision.Putting things right
So, given the above, VWFS should refund Mr C £1,085.17* (as per the calculation detailed 
above), and apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date the 
agreement was settled to the date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
*if any of the deposit paid was by way of a dealer or finance allowance or contribution, this 
amount should be deducted before any interest is calculated and refund paid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman