DRN-2834186
The complaint
Miss H and Mr B complain about the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading 
as first direct). Theyre unhappy with the delay and the service they experienced when they 
asked first direct to process two chargebacks for a cancelled holiday.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss H and Mr B purchased a holiday through a travel company using their 
first direct debit card. In March, they used their debit card to purchase an entertainment 
package through another travel company. They paid £170.30 for the holiday and £90 for the 
entertainment package. In May, the travel company cancelled the holiday because of the 
pandemic. Miss H says she tried to contact it several times by both email and telephone to 
no avail, so she contacted first direct to see whether it could seek reimbursement under the 
chargeback scheme. Miss H told us:
On 6 May she contacted first direct to see whether she could make a claim under the 
chargeback scheme in respect of the holiday and the entertainment package theyd 
paid for, which had now been cancelled.
she had to make a number of telephone calls to the bank to get the matter sorted and 
it still isnt resolved;
first direct made her jump through hoops to get her money back and it told her shed 
need to complete a declaration form, which she says was both unnecessary and 
impossible as she was unable to print the form at home;
shes now received refunds directly from both travel companies but first direct is 
trying to take the temporary refunds it applied to her account without confirming the 
outcome of the chargeback claims it made;
shes unhappy with the service shes received  the bank took a long time before it 
spoke to her about her chargebacks and her complaint, and its not provided any 
evidence to confirm that the chargeback claims to the travel company were won or 
lost;
first direct has caused her stress and inconvenience at an already difficult time.
first direct upheld Miss H and Mr Bs complaint about the service theyd received and gave 
them £50 compensation in recognition of this. It said that under normal circumstances it 
wouldve expected to raise a dispute within seven to ten days providing it had all the 
information it needed to meet the criteria set out by Visa. But it explained that because of the 
pandemic it had received an unprecedented number of disputes and its taking longer than it 
would like to resolve them.
first direct told Miss H and Mr B that it asks customers to complete a declaration form so that 
it can be certain it has all the information it needs before it raises a chargeback claim. And 
that once it became aware that Miss H and Mr B didnt have printing facilities at home, it sent 
them a form in the post to complete and return.
first direct said that it credited Miss H and Mr Bs bank account with temporary refunds but 
that it would now remove these from their account because theyd received refunds directly 
from the travel companies. It said it wrote to Miss H and Mr B on 5 August to confirm that the 
first chargeback had been unsuccessful  theyd been given a refund directly from the travel 
company  and that it would re-debit that amount from their account. It accepted that theyd 
not received this letter and the banks review of the subsequent telephone call concluded 
that it shouldve been handled better. It was for this reason that it paid Miss H and Mr B £50.
first direct told us that as both payments had been refunded by the travel company directly to 
Miss H and Mr B, the temporary credits it made to their bank account now need reversing. It 
added that as one of the refunds hadnt been for the full amount  the travel company 
refunded £167.50 for the payment of £170.30  the bank had made up the difference and 
credited the additional £2.80.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said initially that she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that first direct raised both chargebacks on 6 June and placed 
temporary credits on Miss H and Mr Bs account so that they werent out of pocket. But the 
travel companies then refunded Miss H and Mr B directly on 11 June and 15 June so at this 
point Miss H and Mr B had been refunded twice  once from the travel companies and once 
from first direct. 
Our investigator explained that the temporary credit becomes permanent if the chargeback is 
successful and is removed if it is unsuccessful. She said she didnt think thered been any 
unreasonable delays in Miss H and Mr B getting their money back and she didnt think it was 
wrong for first direct to remove the temporary credits by re-debiting these amounts from their 
account.
Miss H said she didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She said she shouldnt have 
been required to complete a declaration form; the bank shouldve contacted her before it 
removed the first temporary credit; and the bank hasnt provided any evidence to her about 
whether the chargebacks were successful or not. Miss H says she doesnt think £50 is 
sufficient and she suggests compensation for the stress, upset, poor service and miss [sic] 
communication equal to the amount of the dispute would be sufficient.
Our investigator looked again at what happened and took into consideration what Miss H 
had said. She explained that a bank only has one opportunity to submit a chargeback claim 
and she would expect a bank to make every effort to have all the relevant information it 
needed to give the chargeback claim the greatest chance of success. Accordingly, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable of first direct to ask Miss H and Mr B to complete a declaration 
form.
Finally, our investigator explained that the fact Miss H and Mr B had already received 
refunds direct from the travel companies meant that the chargebacks would not succeed and 
first direct would not receive money from the travel companies. And she was satisfied from 
the call recordings shed listened to that Miss H had clearly given her consent to first direct 
removing the temporary credits from their account.
She acknowledged that the bank hadnt acted quickly once it had this consent and had 
caused Miss H and Mr B further inconvenience and distress, and she asked first direct to 
pay them a further £75 in recognition of this.
first direct accepted this revised opinion. But Miss H and Mr B disagree so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Miss H and Mr B received from first direct. This is because although Miss H and Mr B 
disputed payments totalling £260.30, both parties have now confirmed that these were 
refunded back to Miss H and Mr Bs current account in June 2020 by the travel companies in 
question and the small shortfall - £2.80  was made up by first direct.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for first direct to ask for a payment Miss H and 
Mr B made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied by the company Miss H and Mr B paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Miss H and Mr B has ultimately not been provided with the goods 
and services that they originally paid for  they bought a holiday and an entertainment 
package, and it was cancelled. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to 
expect first direct to raise chargebacks for them, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that 
is covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected first direct to have progressed this chargeback sooner than it did; it took a 
month to dispute the payments with the holiday companies and place temporary refunds on 
Miss H and Mr Bs account.
However, these werent normal circumstances, and although first direct didnt help Miss H 
and Mr B to obtain their refunds as quickly as I wouldve expected, they didnt lose out. I say 
this because in spite of the challenges facing all parties at this particular difficult time, Miss H 
and Mr B received full refunds by the middle of June  just over five weeks after Miss Hs 
initial telephone call to first direct.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Miss H 
and Mr B. Theyd booked and paid for a holiday, and from what theyve told us, the 
experience with the travel companies initially when they couldnt be contacted would only 
wouldve understandably caused them some anxiety. 
But I cant hold first direct responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the travel company, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Miss H and Mr B first contacted 
first direct, dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up 
issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, 
rules and guidance at a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges 
during this period.
Ive noted that first direct has paid Miss H and Mr B £50 in recognition of the poor service 
they received, and its agreed to pay a further £75 to Miss H and Mr B following the 
recommendation of our investigator. And although I wouldve expected the bank to identify 
vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the information 
I have, I dont think Miss H or Mr B fell into this category. So, for the reasons Ive given, I 
think an additional £75 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint and I dont think first direct needs to do anything more.
Ive also considered Miss Hs additional comments about the possibility of the chargebacks 
being successful and first direct keeping not only the re-debited amounts from her account, 
but also the payments from the travel companies. But I have to tell Miss H that this isnt how 
the chargeback process works. In providing refunds directly to Miss H and Mr B, the travel 
companies successfully defend the chargebacks and first direct receives no money from 
them.
Putting things right
first direct can remove the temporary credits from Miss H and Mr Bs account as theyve 
already received refunds directly from the travel companies concerned. But Im going to ask 
first direct to pay Miss H and Mr B £75 in compensation for the additional inconvenience and 
anxiety it caused. This will bring their total compensation to £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as 
first direct) to pay Miss H and Mr B £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman