DRN-1579785
The complaint
Mr P complains abut end of contract charges when his agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) ended following rejection of 
the car.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with BPF. At the point of supply the car was 8 years old and had covered around 88,000 
miles.
Mr P experienced issues with the engine and the turbo. The supplying dealer attempted 
repairs on several occasions, but these werent successful and BPF agreed that Mr P could 
reject the car.
BPF asked Mr P to pay damage charges. Mr P disputed the charges. He said the damage 
had been present at the point of supply.
BPF partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and reduced the damage charges. As a gesture of 
goodwill, it also agreed to refund one monthly payment.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the damage charges were fair. She thought it was unfair to 
charge Mr P for mileage and said BPF should refund the monthly payments made by Mr P 
for the time the car hadnt been in his possession and refund the deposit. 
BPF didnt agree. It said the car had been supplied in good condition and that the photos 
showed the damage and missing parts were caused whilst the car was in Mr Ps possession.
Another investigator looked at the complaint more recently and said BPF should refund the 
deposit, refund all monthly payments made by Mr P since May 2019 and remove some of 
the damage charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps right to reject the car isnt in dispute here. Its the damage to the car and the redress 
which is in issue.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where the right of rejection is exercised, a finance 
company is allowed to make a deduction for the use. The legislation doesnt specify that a 
particular mileage rate should be used to calculate usage. 
Our usual approach in these circumstances would be to refund the consumers deposit and 
add 8% interest to the payment because the consumer has been deprived of the deposit 
whilst funding a car which was of unsatisfactory quality. 
We then consider the payments made against the agreement and ask the business to refund 
these, less a charge for use which the relevant legislation allows them to deduct. There are 
various ways one can establish the cost of use of a car, such as a mileage rate. Or its 
possible to use monthly payments as a measure.
In this case, I can see that Mr P experienced repeated issues with the engine and the car 
was returned for repairs several times. However, Mr P covered around 3500 miles in the car 
during the 5 months it was in his possession, so despite the issues with the engine, Mr P has 
been able to use the car. Because of this, I think its fair that BPF retain the monthly 
payments made by Mr P up to May 2019, which was when the car was towed to a garage 
and collected by the dealership, where it remains.
Ive reviewed the photos provided by the business. I can see there is damage to a number of 
areas, including the number plate, the rear reflector, the tailgate handle, the bumper, the roof 
lining and the tonneau cover.
In its final response, BPF agreed to cover the cost of the missing tonneau cover. Mr P has 
acknowledged that his son damaged the tailgate handle. He says that all the other damage 
was present at the point of supply.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account when considering the damage. And 
Ive looked at the photos carefully. I think its likely that there was significant wear and tear to 
the car at the point of supply. This is because Mr P didnt have the car in his possession for 
very long, and because the damage is so widespread, I dont think its likely that all of it 
occurred in the space of 5 months.
Id expect damage to be assessed in accordance with the relevant industry guidance  the 
BVLRA guidelines. I cant see that these guidelines have been applied in this case. The 
investigator who most recently looked at this complaint has applied the BVLRA guidance 
and has explained why he doesnt think some of the damage is chargeable. I agree with 
what the investigator has said, and Im satisfied that the photographs support his 
conclusions.
Putting things right
Because Mr P has exercised his right to reject, he should receive a refund of his deposit and 
all the monthly payments hes made since May 2019, subject to any deduction for damage 
charges.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr P should be responsible for the damage charges for the 
chrome bottom bumper, the tailgate and the valet charge. BPF should remove the rest of the 
damage charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must:Allow Mr P to reject the car
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund £500 deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr P since May 2019 and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse credit information from Mr Ps credit file in relation to the 
agreement
Remove the damage charges other than the chrome bottom bumper panel, the 
tailgate and the valet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman