DRN-2729876
The complaint
Mrs D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Mrs D took out in 1999. It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mrs D and AXA agree the policy was taken out during an interaction in a store. Mrs D 
says the policy wasnt discussed with her and she felt intimidated due to the potential 
embarrassment of being declined for the credit in front of other customers. 
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional. And it has 
provided a copy of Mrs Ds application form. The form has a section for the PPI and 
applicants can sign to opt for the policy in this section if they wish to take it out. This section 
of the form has been signed by Mrs D. Had the policy been compulsory  and intrinsically 
linked to obtaining the credit  its unlikely there would have been an option to sign for it 
separately from the credit. And I note Mrs D has signed the overall credit agreement, so if 
there was anything on the form she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed to, she would have 
had the opportunity to question it at the time. 
As the form doesnt clearly state that the policy is optional in fairness to Mrs D, Ive also 
looked at everything we know about how AXA normally sold PPI around that time. And 
based on what we know about such sales, customers were usually asked to choose whether 
they wanted PPI. Theres nothing to suggest AXA didnt follow its normal procedures. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely that Mrs D was given a choice and she chose to buy the 
policy, even if she doesnt remember this now, many years later. 
Ive noted Mrs Ds comments about feeling intimidated but from what shes told us about 
this, this is more linked to obtaining the store card rather than being pressured into taking out 
the PPI. So, this point doesnt change my outcome. 
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs D. So, it didnt need to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs D says she would 
have received sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out 
alongside any employee benefits she might have received. 
Mrs D has said she didnt have any other means  such as savings  at the time that she 
could have used to make her repayments. So, I think the PPI would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. I also havent seen anything to make me think the PPI was 
unaffordable. All of this means I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Mrs D has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
I appreciate this outcome is likely to disappoint Mrs D. Shes put time and effort into her 
complaint. And Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs D has said, but for the reasons 
explained above these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman