DRN-3114287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) relates to the mortgage 
valuation report they paid for and which contained numerous factual errors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were purchasing a property and applied for a mortgage with the Co-op. As part 
of the mortgage application process, a valuation of the property to be purchased was 
required. Co-op sought a valuation report from Esurv Surveyors for which Mr and Mrs L paid 
Co-op £554. When obtained, the report contained inaccurate information as to the number of 
bathrooms, number of toilets, the presence of a garage and floor coverings. Mr and Mrs L 
notified Co-op who in turn notified Esurv seeking corrections to the report. When the 
amended report was received it still contained factual errors.
Co-op apologised for the errors within the report and offered Mr and Mrs L £75 in 
compensation for the poor service, which Mr and Mrs L rejected as they felt they should 
receive a refund of the entire cost of the report. Co-op did not feel that the entire valuation 
report fee should be refunded because the surveyors valuation of the property had in fact 
been accepted, leading to the mortgage application being processed through to completion 
and an offer of mortgage being made to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Co-ops final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been some poor service, the amount of compensation Co-op offered was enough to put 
things right. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute as to the facts of this complaint. Co-op accept that the surveyor they 
instructed prepared a report which contained inaccuracies, and despite amendment was still 
factually deficient. 
The purpose of a valuation report is to assist the mortgage company in deciding that the 
property for which monies are being loaned, is of sufficient value to allow a mortgage to be 
offered upon it. What happened in this case is that despite the factual errors, the valuation of 
the property was accepted by Co-op and they went on to provide a mortgage offer to Mr and 
Mrs L. The report therefore fulfilled its purpose. To put matters another way, the deficiencies 
identified by Mr and Mrs L did not affect the integrity of the report, in so far as Co-op were 
using it for valuation purposes.
So, whilst I can accept that it would be annoying to see a report for which a significant 
amount of money has been paid, contained errors, in fact those errors didnt invalidate the 
report nor affect the mortgage application process.
I note our investigator passed comment on the responsibility of the surveyors, but as I am 
dealing solely with a complaint against the Co-op I do not address that. It is a matter for Mr 
and Mrs L as to whether they wish to make a separate complaint in that regard.
Co-op has accepted that it didnt get things right and consequently offered to compensate Mr 
and Mrs L with £75. As Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive 
given this some further thought. When this service considers what an appropriate level of 
compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, 
distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different. Ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures. Ive taken account of the fact that the report 
required amendment yet still contained error, but Ive also taken account that ultimately the 
report fulfilled its purpose and there was no delay to the application occasioned by the 
errors. Having done so I find the impact upon Mr and Mrs L to have been minimal.
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Co-op of £75 is a fair and 
reasonable recompense for effect of the service failures upon Mr and Mrs L. So, although Mr 
and Mrs L will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Co-op have indeed 
made errors, I cant say Co-op has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs L £75 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr and Mrs L £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman