DRN-1613723
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Legal and General Insurance Plc (L&G) handled an 
insurance claim they made under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M purchased a holiday home in 2015 and took out second home buildings 
insurance with L&G. In December 2018, while visiting their second home they noticed visible 
signs of damp around their fireplace.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M were told by their neighbour about a water leak in their 
property. Mr and Mrs M said it was this leak that had caused the water ingress into their 
property as the leak was intruding from an adjoining wall. Mr and Mrs M made a claim under 
their insurance policy which was accepted by L&G. 
But Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about the time taken to settle the claim as they said the 
drying out of their property wasnt done properly. And said that they were upset at the way 
they were spoken to as they felt their integrity was questioned. 
L&G accepted that their level of service hadnt been to their standard. They reimbursed Mr 
and Mrs Ms rates and utilities during the time of the claim - £1,369.35. And offered Mr and 
Mrs M £900 for the trouble and upset caused, which included £300 for the trouble of visits 
needing to be made to the property.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with L&Gs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recognised that the claim could have been dealt with better. And that it had 
caused trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs M. But said that the compensation paid by L&G was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think the compensation paid by L&G was enough for the trouble and 
upset theyd gone through as their health had been seriously affected. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
As L&G has now settled Mr and Mrs Ms insurance claim. What I need to determine is how 
they handled the claim and whether the compensation theyve now paid is enough for the 
financial impact and trouble and upset that has been caused. 
Experiencing water ingress and having to make an insurance claim can be a distressing 
event. And repairs can take some time. So, when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint I need to separate out the upset caused by the event and look at that caused by how L&G 
handled the claim to see if they caused unnecessary or avoidable delays. And what the 
impact of this was.
Service 
Mr and Mrs M first noticed the water damage in December 2018. But the claim wasnt settled 
until September 2019. Firstly, Mr and Mrs Ms property needed to be dried out and this was 
started in March 2019. The delay to this work beginning was down to there being no benefit 
in starting this work until their neighbours property had been repaired and dried out.
So, I dont think L&G can be held responsible for the initial delay in the work starting.
But when, in April 2019, Mr and Mrs M were told their property had been dried out they 
found there was still visible signs of damp. And said this was because the plaster hadnt 
been removed before drying. I can see that there was a discussion between L&Gs agents 
about the removal of the plaster, but they decided that the drying out could be done by 
simply drilling holes in the plaster rather than removing it.
But Mr and Mrs Ms property didnt dry out and damp was still evident. Mr and Mrs M were 
told the problem was pre-existing, caused by the lack of a damp-proof course. But this hadnt 
been the opinion of the loss assessor on his visit in January 2019, his report said:
I have not identified any underlying damp issues
And despite Mr and Mrs Ms insistence that there hadnt been any damp present before the 
water ingress, it took several calls and visits before L&G accepted that the plaster should 
have been removed as it had been an inhibitor to the drying process. 
L&G agreed for a damp-proof membrane to be added to further reduce the possibility of 
water intruding from the neighbours property. But I can see another delay was caused when 
further rectification work was needed after the property was plastered as this had affected 
the damp proof membrane. 
This meant the work wasnt completed to a satisfactory level until September 2019. And I 
can see that Mr and Mrs M, after its completion, had to pursue L&G for all the supporting 
documentation to show their property was now dried out.
All of this must have been difficult for Mr and Mrs M. And they have provided evidence of the 
stress counselling Mrs M has had. And a hospital visit Mr M said was brought on by the 
stress he was feeling.
Im pleased to see that L&G accepted the handling of Mr and Mrs Ms claim fell below their 
standard. And I can see that they have offered £600 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
and Mrs M. I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed but its not our role to punish a 
business .And the offer of £600 L&G has made I think reasonably reflects the impact their 
poor service has had on them.
 
 
 
 Visits to the property
Mr and Mrs M has said the number of visits they made to their second home increased as 
they needed to check on the property and for meeting for arranged visits connected to their 
claim. The terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say:
The Home is visited at least once a week by you or a competent person acting on your 
behalf and thoroughly inspected externally and internally with any defects rectified as soon 
as possible.
Mr and Mrs M has shown from when they last were able to use the property in March 2019 
up to May 2019, theyd had to make the round trip of 79 miles on 12 occasions. Ive not seen 
any further evidence of additional costs being incurred by Mr and Mrs M in visiting their 
second home. But L&G has compensated them £300 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the trips theyd made which I think is fair and reasonable given their policy obligations. 
Rates and Utility costs
L&G has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Ms rates and utility bills, £1365.39 for the time their 
property was unavailable to them. And Mr and Mrs M has accepted this, so I dont need to 
make a finding on this point.
L&G has accepted that their handling of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance claim caused 
unnecessary and avoidable delays. And that this caused Mr and Mrs M distress and 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied that the compensation they have offered to put things right 
is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman