DRN-3821134
The complaint
Miss P complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has unfairly handled a claim 
made on her motor insurance policy by a third-party driver.
What happened
References to Miss P and Markerstudy include respective representatives and agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Miss P owns a car insured under a motor insurance policy underwritten by 
Markerstudy. 
In March 2021, she reversed into another car at a petrol station. She said the 
collision was at low speed and she considered the bump to be minor. 
The third-party driver (TP) wouldnt give his insurance details so she took a number 
of pictures of the damage to the two cars and contacted the police to report the TPs 
lack of cooperation. But she didnt report the incident to Markerstudy as she says she 
planned to pay for the repairs herself.
In April 2021, Miss P said she was contacted by a solicitor who referenced an 
insurance claim that had been made by the TP in relation to the accident. Miss P said 
she raised that the TP had been reluctant to share any details. Miss P said she never 
heard anything further so assumed the claim never went ahead.
In May 2022 she changed her insurer and found there was a claim relating to the 
incident showing on her insurance. She considered the claim to be fraudulent as she 
thought the amount quoted was inconsistent with the nature and extent of the 
incident. So she contacted Markerstudy to challenge this.
She provided photos of the damage to the cars but Markerstudy said these had been 
provided too late as it was 13 months after the collision. Miss P said she hadnt 
provided them sooner as she was, until more recently, unaware there was a claim in 
course.
Miss P complained to Markerstudy about its approach to the claim. It said Miss P had 
accepted liability for the collision and hadnt questioned the extent of the TP vehicle 
damage when discussing the claim with the solicitor. Because of this, when it 
received evidence of the extent of the damage from a consulting engineer it 
proceeded with the claim on the basis it said it had no evidence on which to base a 
defence.  But it did pay Miss P £75 compensation for the way the claim was handled. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Markerstudy had acted fairly 
based on the evidence it had available. Miss P disagreed and so the complaint has 
come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P considers the TP claim to be fraudulent and doesnt think Markerstudy should 
have settled it the way it did. The terms of the insurance policy set out what the 
parties can expect of the cover and from each other. So, this is the starting point for 
my decision.
The terms of Miss Ps insurance policy explain We have the right to take over and 
conduct in Your name or the name of the person claiming under the policy, the 
defence or settlement of any claimWe shall have full discretion in the conduct of 
any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. So from this, Im satisfied its entitled 
to decide how to settle claims with or without Miss Ps agreement. In my experience, 
this term is a common one in motor insurance policies. 
Having established Markerstudys right to settle claims as it wishes, Ive then gone on 
to consider if its approach was reasonable in the circumstances of this case given the 
evidence it had available at the time.
Its not disputed that Miss P accepted liability for the collision at the time of the 
incident and in discussions with the solicitor instructed by Markerstudy and theres 
nothing to suggest any other party was responsible. So, having established this, Ive 
then gone on to think about the evidence Markerstudy had available to reach its 
decision on settling the claim.
The TP provided a report from an expert engineer with specific training in motor 
vehicle repair. The report he produced confirmed the extent of the damage together 
with the cost of the parts and labour required to undertake the repairs. 
Additionally, the TP provided evidence of medical checks and treatment undertaken 
after the accident to support the personal injury claim.
As Miss P had admitted liability for the collision Markerstudy didnt think there was 
any evidence on which to base a defence. In short, it didnt believe it would win the 
case if it went to court. And it was satisfied with the experts opinion on the extent of 
the damage, the cost of the repairs and the supporting documentation relating to the 
personal injury claim so it decided to settle the claim. 
On the basis of the evidence it had, I think Markerstudy acted fairly and reasonably 
by taking the action it did.
Im satisfied the £75 compensation Markerstudy has paid for its handling of the 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman