DRN-2387109
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (Ergo) did after he made a claim 
on a missed event insurance policy.  
What happened
In August 2019 Mr S booked tickets for an event the following March. As part of the 
purchase he took out insurance with Ergo which provided cover if he was unable to attend 
the event for one of the reasons set out in the policy. On 16 March (the day of the event) the 
Prime Minister made a statement on the coronavirus outbreak which said people should stop 
non-essential contact with others and stop all unnecessary travel.
As a result Mr S decided not to attend the event (which did take place) and made a claim on 
his insurance. Ergo turned this down because it said the circumstances didnt fall within the 
what is covered section of the policy. It also highlighted an exclusion which said costs 
wouldnt be refunded where someone was prevented from attending a booked event due to 
an outbreak of a contagious disease and the Government has imposed a ban on travel.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the exclusion applied because the government had 
advised against travel rather than banning it. But she was satisfied what happened didnt fall 
within any of the insured events listed in the policy. She understood why Mr S had decided 
not to attend the event but didnt think Ergo acted unfairly in turning down his claim. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been told if the Prime Ministers statement had been earlier 
in the day the event probably would have been cancelled. And he followed government 
advice not to travel (regardless of whether this was a ban or not). He felt he was being 
unfairly penalised for doing so and said he wasnt provided with the terms and conditions of 
the insurance when the policy was sold. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Ergo has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I understand the reasons why Mr S didnt travel to the event and I accept in doing so he was 
following government advice issued on 16 March. But the issue Im considering is whether 
the claim he made to his insurer (for a refund of his ticket cost) has been fairly declined in 
line with the terms and conditions of his policy.  
I think it has. Im not sure Ergo can rely on the contagious diseases exclusion because that 
refers to the government having imposed a ban on travel. And at that point this event was 
due to take place legislation to prevent travel wasnt in force. But I dont think that makes a 
difference because theres a more fundamental issue which is that the circumstances of 
Mr Ss claim dont fall within the insured events listed in his policy. 
Ive reviewed the what is covered section of the policy and I can see this sets out specific 
situations in which the policy would provide cover if someone was unable to attend a pre-
booked event. That includes things like injury, illness or death of the policyholder or a family 
member. It also covers non-attendance if a qualified medical practitioner advises against 
attending the event. 
But in this case Mr S wasnt himself affected by coronavirus and wasnt advised by a medical 
professional not to attend the event. And I dont think his circumstances fall within any of the 
other situations covered by the policy. Where a consumer makes a claim the onus is on 
them to show that, on the balance of probabilities, an insured event caused the damage or 
loss. I dont think Mr S has done that. As a result I dont think Ergo acted unfairly in turning 
down the claim he made. 
I appreciate if the Prime Ministers statement had been earlier in the day the event itself 
might have been cancelled. But if that was the case Mr S should then have been able to 
obtain a refund from the organiser of the event. It isnt something this policy would have 
covered. It doesnt fall within the what is covered section of the policy and in fact is 
specifically excluded; the policy doesnt cover costs where the event is cancelled, 
postponed, curtailed or relocated by the event organisers for any reason.
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the terms and conditions of the policy. But that would be an 
issue for the seller of the policy (which wasnt Ergo) to address. So if Mr S wants to pursue 
this hell need to take it up with the seller. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman