DRN-1608291
The complaint
Ms M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited turned down her income protection 
claim. 
What happened
Ms M is a member of her employers group income protection scheme with Aviva. The aim of 
the scheme is to provide its members with an income if they cant work, after a deferred 
period of 26 weeks, because of injury or illness. 
In July 2018, Ms M stopped work to care for her husband, who then sadly passed away. In 
April 2019, she began a phased return to work. She submitted a claim to Aviva for the period 
she was off work. This was turned down as Aviva didnt think she met the policy definition of 
incapacity. However, it agreed to pay proportionate benefit whilst Ms M was undertaking a 
phased return to work, though it said this wasnt an admission of liability in respect of the 
claim. Unhappy with this, Ms M brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst she recognised that 
medical practitioners had said Ms M wasnt able to work, she didnt think this was due to 
illness. She thought Avivas decision to pay proportionate benefit whilst Ms M was carrying 
out a phased return to work was fair. 
Ms M didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first of all like to offer my condolences to Ms M for the sad loss of her husband. I 
appreciate itll be difficult for her to read references to his illness and death, so Ill try and 
keep this to a minimum. 
Ill now consider whether it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim.
The policy pays benefit in the event of incapacity. This is defined as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role 
as a result of their illness or injury.
As the policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks, that means Ms M must show she couldnt 
carry out her role due to illness throughout that period (between July 2018 and January 
2019). 
Ive read Ms Ms GP notes and I see that she was signed off from work in July 2018 because 
of personal circumstances. Then in August 2018 it was noted by her GP she was struggling 
with caring for her partner, and a company (that I understand may be a hospice) was going 
to be helping at nights. Following Ms Ms partners death, she called her GP surgery in 
October 2018 to extend her sickness certificate, but said she didnt feel she needed any 
other GP help at that time. In December 2018, a further sickness certificate was requested, 
though it looks like this was again over the phone. 
Then in February 2019 Ms M called her GP to request a further sickness certificate  she 
was signed off for two weeks, but was advised she needed to be seen in order to be signed 
off again. She was therefore reviewed by her GP at the end of February 2019, and it was 
recorded that she had a counsellor and was liaising with occupational health. Her GP noted 
she had low points but was generally stable, she had a lot of support and was doing things 
that she enjoyed. The GP said theyd review her if she wasnt feeling ready to return to work 
in one month. Up to this point, the GP had recorded Ms Ms reason for being off work as 
personal circumstances.
In March 2019, Ms M had a phone consultation with her GP and she explained she was 
going to return to work on a phased basis. The GP said as the main issue was depression 
and stress from her partners death, then personal circumstances no longer applied. She 
was therefore signed off from that point with depression and stress related illness. 
Ms Ms GP completed a medical summary form for Aviva in February 2019. The GP said Ms 
Ms diagnosis was stress and anxiety, low mood, and bereavement. They said Ms M had 
struggled with stress and low mood since her partners death. And although there hadnt 
been any clinical investigations, she was seeing a counsellor and occupational health. 
As Ms M was under the care of a counsellor and had been reviewed by occupational health, 
Ive also considered these reports. 
On 20 November 2018, Ms M saw an occupational health physician (Dr W). He said hed 
had a frank conversation with Ms M about her grief and where she was in terms of 
replenishing her batteries. It was Dr Ws belief that Ms M was still quite a way off with this, as 
he noted she had been caring for her partner at the end. He thought she had a need for 
physical and psychological replenishing. Dr W noted Ms Ms GP had signed her off for 
another eight-week period after 11 December 2018, and said he agreed with that 
assessment. In summary, Dr W said Ms M was not fit to return to work at that time, but he 
would review her in January 2019.
On 18 January 2019, Ms M again saw Dr W. He said Ms M continued to be going through 
the grieving process, and said her sleep patterns were extremely variable and this adversely 
affected her mood and concentration. Dr W said she had engaged with her GP and had had 
two sessions with a counsellor. He said that whilst Ms M was making progress, he still 
thought she had some way to go before she could contemplate a return to work programme. 
He thought after a few more counselling sessions, then she would be able to contemplate a 
return. Dr W planned to carry out a further review in six weeks time.
Ms Ms counsellor wrote a letter (undated) which explained she first saw Ms M in December 
2018. She said the first time she met Ms M she was clearly feeling very miserable, numb 
and bereft at the loss of her partner. She observed that Ms M was forgetful at time during the 
sessions and presented as tired and lethargic. She said that Ms Ms disturbed sleep and low 
energy meant that she struggled to do a great deal every day. And that trying to do simple 
activities overwhelmed her at times which then impacted on her anxiety levels. The 
counsellor said that in January/February 2019, although Ms M reported that she was 
beginning to feel better, her concentration and focus was still not sufficient to perform the 
necessary duties associated with her employment. Conclusions
I think its apparent that Ms M has been through a really difficult time, and this undoubtedly 
had an impact on her health. She was having trouble sleeping following her bereavement, 
which affected her concentration levels and left her feeling lethargic. 
Ms M didnt engage much with her GP throughout the deferred period, though her 
GP thought she was experiencing stress and anxiety, with a low mood. However, she did 
see both a counsellor and occupational health, and neither of those practitioners thought she 
was fit to return to work before the end of the deferred period in January 2019. 
Based on the medical evidence, I think its reasonable to say that Ms M couldnt fulfil the 
main duties of her role throughout the deferred period, and this has been supported by her 
GP, Dr W and her counsellor. 
However, for the claim to be payable, I need to consider whether Ms M was experiencing an 
illness that meant she couldnt work. On balance, I dont think she was. I say that because it 
seems that Ms M couldnt work due to the stress she experienced while caring for her 
husband and the understandable grief and upset she experienced after he passed away, 
rather than an actual illness. 
I fully appreciate that such feelings can developed into an illness, such as depression. And it 
would seem that this is what happened, because Ms Ms GP signed her off with depression 
from March 2019. Ms M has also confirmed that she was started on anti-depressant 
medication at this time. However, this was some time after the deferred period had ended. I 
dont think the evidence supports that Ms M was experiencing an illness that prevented her 
from working throughout the deferred period, which is the crucial period. 
I recognise that my decision will disappoint Ms M, but Im satisfied that Aviva was entitled to 
turn down the claim. Like the investigator, I think it was fair for Aviva to pay proportionate 
benefit whilst Ms M carried out a phased return to work, as it didnt need to do this under the 
terms of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman