DRN-4261245
The complaint
Mr S complains that Experian Limited did not remove information from his credit file after he 
told it that the information was incorrect.
What happened
In 2023, Mr S found an entry on his Experian credit file which didnt belong to him. Mr S 
contacted Experian to ask it to remove the entry.
Experian responded to say that after investigating, the third party responsible for reporting 
the entry, said it was accurate and would not agree to Experian removing it.
Mr S was very unhappy with Experians response. He involved Action Fraud and the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr S said that the entry had been made 
fraudulently. 
Our investigator issued his view on Mr Ss complaint. He said that Experian had followed the 
rules set down by the data regulator  the ICO. The investigator said that Mr S needed to 
complain to the lender which sold the debt. 
After Mr S disagreed with the investigation outcome, our investigator sent a second view. He 
noted that Mr S thought that it couldnt be right to say that in all circumstances Experian isnt 
allowed to amend data without the permission of the business reporting it  particularly if 
there is an allegation of fraud. The investigator explained that our service decides whether a 
business has acted reasonably. And that given the ICOs rules and as the third party didnt 
agree to the removal of the entry, Experians decision not to remove the entry was a 
reasonable one. The investigator acknowledged that a court may have reached a different 
conclusion but said that its not for our service to determine what a court would have 
decided.
Mr S provided a copy of his email to the ICO outlining the history of his concerns and the 
action that hed taken. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties which Mr S has faced through no fault of his own. But 
my decision is concerned with whether Experian acted reasonably once Mr S told it about 
the entry on his credit file. Our service doesnt regulate or supervise the businesses that we 
cover. It would be for the ICO to decide whether Experian has breached any of its rules once 
it concludes its investigation.
Although the surname for the entry reported by the third party is missing one letter, the entry 
is linked to the same address reported by Mr Ss bank. Mr S also appears on the electoral 
roll at the same address. So, I dont think it should have been immediately obvious to 
Experian that the third party entry was incorrect. 
The ICO publishes guidance about credit reference agencies (CRAs) on its website. This 
says that where an entry on a credit file has the name of a company on it, its likely to be 
that company who is responsible for that entry. The CRAs cannot amend this data without 
the permission of the business.
The ICO goes on to say that it would still expect the CRAs  in this case Experian  to take 
reasonable measures to ensure the information that is reported by lenders via their credit 
files is accurate. So, I need to decide whether Experian took reasonable steps to establish 
the accuracy of the entry once it knew of Mr Ss concerns.
Experian contacted the third party twice to try and establish whether it had reported the entry 
accurately. Both times the third party confirmed that its entry was correct and that it would 
not agree to Experian removing it. 
After Mr S said the entry had been made fraudulently, Experian referred his concerns to its 
team dealing with victims of fraud and provided information on how to protect himself. 
Experian added a statement to Mr Ss credit file to say there may have been fraudulent 
activity and that it had asked the third party to investigate. The statement included a warning 
to take care when making an assessment which may include the disputed data. I think this 
was a fair way to handle things. 
Mr S has provided a summary of information provided to the ICO. This gives some 
background to Mr Ss dispute with the third party and outlines the steps he took to try and 
resolve the problem. I can see that Experian gave the third party some of the details when it 
raised the second dispute on behalf of Mr S. So, Im still satisfied that Experians response 
was reasonable. 
Mr S says that the third party has now asked Experian to remove the entry which is good 
news. If Mr S finds that Experian hasnt actioned this request, he can complain again. But for 
now, Im satisfied that Experian acted reasonably and in line with the ICO guidance. 
It follows that I dont require Experian to compensate Mr S for any impact that the entry may 
have had on his finances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman