DRN-1562172
complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading a Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr E took out a credit card with Barclays in 1997. At the same time, he bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he couldnt 
work. It also provided life cover for the balance.
Mr E says nothing was explained to him about the cover.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr E disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Es 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive come to this decision.
Mr E selected the PPI when he completed a postal application for a credit card. The 
application form made it clear that he had a choice about it. He chose to take it by placing a 
tick in a box and he signed the form. He could have ticked a different box to say he didnt 
want it.
Im satisfied Mr E bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it, even though  
understandably  he doesnt remember this now, many years later.
Barclays didnt give Mr E a personal recommendation to buy the PPI, but it still had to make 
sure it gave him enough information so he could make an informed decision about whether 
he took it. It seems likely that Barclays didnt give Mr E enough information at the time of 
sale. For example, there was no information about how much the policy would cost, or any of 
the exclusions. 
But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr Es complaint. I have to consider 
whether Mr E wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy if hed had all the 
information he needed. Looking at Mr Es circumstances at the time I dont think Mr E 
wouldve acted differently. 
Mr E was eligible for the cover and doesnt seem to have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances.I think Mr E wouldve at least understood that the PPI would help cover his repayments if he 
couldnt work. Mr E chose to take the cover, so I think he considered that he had some need 
for it. Mr E was only entitled to statutory sick pay and he hadnt been working for his 
employer for very long, so I dont think hed have been entitled to any redundancy pay. Mr E 
hasnt told us about any savings he might have had which he could have used to meet his 
expenses if he wasnt working, so it looks like he did have a need for the policy. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that it was unaffordable for him at the time.
So I dont think Mr E lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman