DRN-2712174
The complaint
Mr S complains that a used van he acquired with finance provided by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance) (MBFS) is of 
unsatisfactory quality and unfit for purpose.
What happened
Mr S got this van in May 2017 under a hire purchase agreement (HPA). The finance was 
repayable over two years. The van broke down in April 2019 and Mr S was told the timing 
chain had slipped causing catastrophic engine failure and the damage was uneconomic to 
repair. Mr S thinks the van had an inherent defect when it was supplied  or it would have 
lasted much longer. He had the van serviced regularly and considers the engine should have 
lasted for the duration of the HPA at least - so it wasnt sufficiently durable or fit for purpose. 
Mr S used the van for his business. He had to hire another vehicle to meet orders and he 
has since bought a replacement vehicle. He found the situation stressful and inconvenient 
and he wants MBFS to take the van back and provide compensation.
MBFS rejected the complaint. It says (in summary)
a main dealer inspected the van after the breakdown and diagnosed a crankshaft 
bearing failure which was probably caused by lack of, or improper, maintenance;
the van wasnt serviced within the manufacturers dealer network and theres no 
evidence that it received alternative maintenance within the manufacturers 
guidelines;
Mr S was able to travel about 55,000 miles over nearly two years so its unlikely there 
was a fault present when he got the van.
Mr S received a letter to say the van is subject to a safety recall which he feels could be 
related to the engine failure. He engaged an independent mechanic to inspect the van and 
the mechanic provided his view over two emails. He said (in summary)
the van was in good condition with no faults stored on the system; 
coolant and oil were correct and the timing chain showed no signs of excess wear;
engine noise and breathing indicates low crankcase failure but further investigation is 
needed to identify the cause;
these engines are good for considerably higher mileage if recommended service and 
oil guidance is adhered to.
Our investigator had sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself in but she wasnt 
persuaded, ultimately, that theres enough evidence to show the van was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. She considers its for Mr S to show that the van was faulty 
when it was supplied and shes not satisfied that hes done so. Shes not persuaded by the 
findings of the independent mechanic as he didnt identify the cause of the engine failure or 
comment on when its likely to have occurred - and he based his findings on the 
manufacturers service regime having been adhered to. 
She accepts invoices show the van was serviced regularly - and Mr Ss mechanic provided 
the service schedule he used. But, she found this paperwork doesnt set out what was done 
or show what parts and oil were used exactly. And she thinks some of the evidence is 
inconsistent  for example, the manufacturers service schedule for this model, shows the B 
service includes about twice as much work as the A service - but the B service cost less than 
the A service in invoices Mr S provided. On balance, shes not persuaded theres enough 
evidence to reasonably find the van was serviced in line with the manufacturers guidance. 
And she doesnt think external factors can be ruled out - given the vans age and mileage 
when the engine failed. She doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that outcome. He felt it might be useful for another expert to inspect 
the van after the engine was stripped to help identify the exact cause of the breakdown. 
MBFS considered it was too late for further investigations and Mr S thinks thats unfair. He 
says the van was serviced within the manufacturers recommendations and its wrong that it 
failed so catastrophically before the end of the HPA. He considers it was of unsatisfactory 
quality and unfit for purpose at the outset and he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. He says (in summary)
the timing chain is not under the manufacturers service plan, it should never need 
replacing and there must have been something wrong with his van at the outset;
the invoices and other paperwork supplied that show the van was serviced regularly 
in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations and its unfair to expect 
records of all parts used in every service to be retained or assume that non- 
recommended parts were used;
his mechanic confirmed that recommended parts were used and its unreasonable to 
suggest they wouldnt have been, as that would have voided the warranty;
the difference in the cost of servicing may be due to additional work undertaken - or 
relate to another van he had serviced at the same time - which might have 
increased the cost;
even if non-recommended parts were used (which is denied), its unlikely that would 
cause the engine to fail in this way and it should be for MBFS to show that the use 
of non-recommended parts is likely to cause this sort of engine failure;
the independent mechanic found there was no issue with the oil and the engine 
should have lasted longer
the investigator may have looked at this the wrong way - in terms of personal use 
instead of a commercial van, which is completely different; and
his complaint should be considered taking into account 54,650 miles is not a lot of 
mileage for a van to cover.
My provisional decision
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to reach the same overall 
conclusion as our investigator but my reasons werent quite the same. I issued a provisional 
decision on 11 March 2021 to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and 
make further submissions before I made my final decision. My provisional decision is 
summarised below (in italics) 
My role here is to consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, 
and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances of 
this particular complaint. In doing so, I must have regard to relevant law and industry 
guidance, amongst other things.MBFS supplied this van under a HPA. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. I can see the investigator 
refers the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) in correspondence with the parties but I 
dont think that applies here. Im satisfied that Mr S acquired the van for use in his 
business and doesnt meet the definition of a consumer under the CRA. But, Im 
satisfied that doesnt make much difference in material terms. I say this because the 
Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 (SGITA) provides broadly similar protection 
to the CRA in this situation. I think Mr S probably knew that already, as he refers to the 
SGITA in his early correspondence with MBFS. Just to be clear, I recognise there are 
differences between the provisions of the CRA and the SGITA. But, as Ill explain, I dont 
think this changes the outcome, in these particular circumstances.
MBFS was required to ensure that this van was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. The level of quality that is considered to be satisfactory varies according to 
individual circumstances. Its generally considered reasonable, in the case of a used 
vehicle, to take the cost, age and mileage at the point of supply into account. This van 
was two years old, cost about £16,000 and had about 45,000 miles on the clock at that 
point. I think a reasonable person would appreciate it would have some parts that are 
likely to be worn and need replacing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price 
paid in comparison to a brand new vehicle. Mr S seems to acknowledge that he couldnt 
reasonably expect this van to be entirely fault free when he got it. I think the crux of his 
complaint is that a four year old van with less than 100,000 miles on the clock should not 
have a catastrophic engine failure. And he considers the van should have been durable 
enough to last more than two years after supply.
Dealing with the last point first, I understand Mr S considers the van was not sufficiently 
durable because it didnt last as long as the HPA. But, Im afraid the law doesnt require 
that and its not a term of the finance agreement. MBFS was required to ensure that the 
van was of satisfactory quality at the outset of the HPA. But, its not liable for wear and 
tear, or routine repairs and maintenance, over the life of the HPA  thats the 
responsibility of Mr S.
I appreciate Mr S feels he looked after the van properly. And I have seen evidence that 
suggests it was serviced regularly - albeit not within the manufacturers dealer network.
Like our investigator, I dont think theres enough detail in the paperwork provided to 
show that the van was serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommended 
service schedule. I understand that feels unfair to Mr S but I dont think its unreasonable 
to expect detailed service records to be maintained  especially when, as Mr S points 
out, he was aware that hed need to prove recommended parts were used under the 
warranty. 
Even if Mr S was able to show that the van was maintained as the manufacturer 
recommended, I think there are other factors that can influence how long an engine 
might last. I cant be certain what this van was used for, or how it was maintained, over 
the 45,000 miles or so before it was supplied to Mr S. I think thats likely to have had 
some impact on the condition of the engine and various parts - and this is a risk that 
purchasers take when a used vehicle is acquired.
I accept a used vehicle still has to be sufficiently durable. I understand Mr S feels this 
engine should have lasted much longer, especially as its a commercial vehicle - and I 
note the independent mechanics comments about this. According to UK Government road 
traffic figures the average mileage for a light commercial vehicle is 13,000 miles a year. 
Im satisfied this van had nearly 99,000 miles on the clock when the engine failed. I think a 
fair minded person would consider that wasnt an unreasonable mileage over four years. And, I cant reasonably find this van was insufficiently durable just because the engine 
failed when it did - even if engines in other similar models usually last longer.
Mr S was able to drive this van for about 55,000 miles over nearly 2 years. On balance, I 
think theres a reasonable presumption its unlikely he would have been able to do that if 
there was something wrong with the van at the point of supply. I accept some faults may 
not appear until much later but, given the time that passed and distance travelled after 
supply here, Id need some compelling evidence to reasonably conclude that this van had 
an inherent issue at the outset.
I have considered independent mechanics findings and conclusions but I think his opinion 
is of limited use in this situation. He hasnt provided a detailed report on the likely cause of 
the breakdown or identified a specific fault or inherent defect - and he doesnt comment on 
whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The independent 
mechanic says Mr S was unfortunate to have the engine fail in this way - which seems to 
me to suggest this was a matter of bad luck rather than an inherent quality issue.
Im aware that Mr S received a recall notice for the van but Im not persuaded that means 
this van must have an inherent fault. I think it simply means the manufacturer finds it 
necessary to check and carry out some work in case the van has an issue that may 
develop in some models. As far as I can see, the recall here relates to the failure of an 
electronic component which controls the glow plugs in the engine and the fuel filter heater. 
Ive seen nothing to connect this issue to the breakdown and engine damage in Mr Ss 
van. I note the independent mechanic doesnt link the engine failure to the recall issue 
either. Mr S says the independent mechanic is very experienced in vans of this particular 
brand so, if he considered this van failed due to the recalled part - or showed signs of 
having any inherent defect present - Id expect him to have said so.
For the reasons Ive set out, I am not persuaded that there are enough fair and 
reasonable grounds to find this van was of unsatisfactory quality, unfit for purpose or 
insufficiently durable when it was supplied. And I cant fairly require MBFDS to take the 
van back and pay compensation or do anything further.
The responses received from the parties
I invited the parties to let me have any further evidence or comments by 25 March 2021. 
MBFS has not objected to my provisional conclusions but Mr S disagrees. He says (in 
summary) 
it would have been implied that the vehicle would last considerably longer than the 
short HPA, if serviced correctly, and it is ridiculous that this commercial vehicle did 
not do so;
he provided a letter from his mechanic stating that the van was serviced properly and 
the mechanic uses the industry standard sheets to service vehicles, so it was open to 
MBFS to cross check this and its wrong to assume that the mechanic didnt service 
the vehicle correctly; 
the vehicle was used/ owned by MBFS pre-supply so MBFS would be aware of the 
vehicles condition and should have a full service history; 
there was a fault with the timing chain (or, if this jumped, there would have been a 
fault with the tensioner) which is not on any service plan and would not usually fail at 
this age and mileage which suggests mechanical failure/fault not wear and tear;
the fact he was able to drive for 55,000 miles over 2 years supports this - if there had 
been issues immediately after supply this might be due to the wear and tear  and it 
is quite common for a driver to notice a noise and get a vehicle serviced/ repaired - 
but thats not the case heresomething broke suddenly on this van without warning, this was catastrophic fault in 
part of the engine thats not required to be serviced regularly and it should not have 
happened because of the age/ mileage of the vehicle;
the difference between wear and tear and a mechanical fault is that there is a 
noticeable increase in noise/ knocking or vehicle ride quality with wear and tear but 
with mechanical fault there is a sudden failure which stops the vehicle; 
it is unfair to discount the evidence from the independent mechanic who points out 
the vehicle was of good condition in terms of oil and coolant levels confirming it was 
serviced correctly and confirms there were no signs of wear and tear to the timing 
chain and no faults stored on the computer to indicate issues regarding servicing; 
luck is not relevant in mechanical engineering - a part works continually until it 
becomes worn and needs replacing and, if a moving part breaks suddenly, that is the 
result of a fault;
its unfair that MBFS did not agree to further investigations and inferences should be 
drawn from that;
he supplied evidence of servicing and an independent report stating that everything a 
service would cover was normal when the breakdown occurred with no faults stored 
on the computer showing he serviced the vehicle correctly; and 
he has driven this brand of van for over 30 years, he understands how his vehicles 
drive and he has spent a considerable amount of time fighting this case because he 
is certain there was a major fault with the engine or its components when the van 
was supplied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure Mr S that I have considered everything that hes said and sent to us 
carefully. I understand he has strong feelings about what happened, and I am sorry to 
disappoint him, but nothing Ive seen has changed my mind. I am not persuaded that there 
are enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
I think Ive dealt with most of the points that Mr S has made, already - in my provisional 
findings. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied theres no implied term that this van would 
last for the duration of the HPA. I acknowledge MBFS was required to ensure the van was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied - but that doesnt mean MBFS is liable for 
everything that might go wrong with a vehicle over the course of a HPA. 
Ive given some thought to what Mr S says about wear and tear and mechanical fault. Im 
satisfied that wear and tear is damage that occurs over time as the result of use - and this 
may cause the failure or malfunction of a mechanical part. But, Im not persuaded that 
means wear and tear cannot cause a part to appear to fail suddenly, without displaying 
some early warning sign to the driver. 
I realise Mr S has gone to a lot of trouble to pursue this complaint. He made several very 
detailed submissions and provided evidence from third parties, including the independent 
mechanic. I have no doubt its frustrating that this hasnt resulted in a definitive diagnosis of 
what went wrong. But, given the time thats passed already, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to allow more time for more investigations - which may take things no further.I am satisfied that I have enough evidence to reach and fair and reasonable outcome. I cant 
be certain what caused the van to break down exactly but Im satisfied Mr S was able to 
drive it for about 55,000 miles over nearly two years. And I remain of the view its unlikely he 
would have been able to do so, if there was a fault present when he got it. 
I accept faults may sometimes not become manifest until much later - but Id need 
compelling evidence to reasonably conclude thats what happened, in this situation. And, on 
the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded its likely this van had a manufacturing or 
other defect present at the point of supply - for the reasons Ive given. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I cant reasonably find this van was of 
unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose or insufficiently durable when it was supplied. It 
follows I cant fairly require MBFS to take the van back and pay compensation or do anything 
further. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S  as this is not the 
outcome he wanted. But hes not obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case it remains 
open to Mr S to pursue this matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman