DRN-3405459
The complaint
Mr T complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr T was given a loan by MCF in September 2018. He borrowed £3,500 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr T repaid the loan earlier than 
planned, in November 2019.
MCF gathered some information from Mr T before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It then used some industry 
statistical data to revise Mr Ts declared expenditure upwards. And it checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had 
managed credit in the past.
Mr T was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that MCF wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ts financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that MCFs checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of MCFs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
Mr T told MCF that he was earning £2,100 each month, and his normal living costs 
totalled £250. MCF concluded that Mr T had accurately declared his income, but it 
thought his living costs might be higher based on its experience of customers in 
similar circumstances. So it used a figure of £525 in its affordability assessment. Mr T 
also said that he was paying £240 each month on other credit repayments.
The results of the credit check showed that Mr Ts credit repayments were higher 
than hed declared. The credit check showed that Mr T was actually repaying an 
unsecured loan at £237 per month, and a hire purchase agreement for a car at £240 
per month. And he had an overdraft on his bank account which, although it fluctuated 
from month to month, was showing as being £871 at the time of the credit check.
But even allowing for the higher expenditure, both on day to day living costs and 
credit expenditure, it seems clear that Mr T would have sufficient disposable income 
to meet his new repayments of £270 per month. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for MCF to conclude that the loan was affordable for Mr T.
When making loans of this nature MCF is governed by the CONC regulations of the 
FCA. In particular our investigator has highlighted CONC 5.3.7 that says;
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit 
agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to 
information supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
Here it is clear that the information Mr T provided about his credit expenditure 
differed from the results shown by the independent credit check. But Im not 
persuaded that I should immediately draw the conclusion that this difference was as 
a result of Mr T being untruthful in what he declared. I think it is at least as likely that 
he simply forgot about one of the loans he was repaying.
But even if I thought Mr T had deliberately withheld information about one of his 
loans, Im not currently persuaded that MCF allowing the application to proceed has 
caused him any detriment. As Ive explained above, even allowing for the higher 
expenditure, it was reasonable for MCF to conclude the loan was affordable for Mr T. 
So, to ensure a strict application of the CONC regulations, it could have asked Mr T 
to amend his application and update the information hed provided about his 
expenditure. And him doing so would have caused no impact on the decision MCF 
had reached to agree the loan. As Mr T clearly wanted this loan I see no reason why 
he would have refused to correct his application.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr T. But I think the results of 
MCFs proportionate checks suggested he could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. And although the expenditure he declared appears to have 
been understated I dont think him correcting that information would have led to his 
loan application being declined. So I dont currently think the complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. MCF has said that it accepts my provisional decision. Mr T hasnt 
provided us with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I think the results of 
MCFs proportionate checks suggested Mr T could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. And although the expenditure he declared appears to have been understated I dont 
think him correcting that information would have led to his loan application being declined. 
So I dont think the complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman