DRN-3648014
The complaint
Mr F complains that Periscope Wealth Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
existing personal pension to a SIPP (self invested personal pension) and invest via a DFM 
(Discretionary Fund Manager).  
At the time Periscope Wealth Limited was an appointed representative of Sterling Wealth 
Limited. Sterling Wealth Limited is responsible for the advice Periscope Wealth Limited 
gave. 
What happened
I understand that Periscope Wealth Limited contacted Mr F about a pension review. The 
result was that Periscope Wealth Limited advised Mr F to transfer his existing personal 
pension, held with Aviva, to a SIPP. The transfer was on 26 September 2017 and the 
transfer value paid was £26,080. The money was then invested in one of the DFMs 
portfolios which included a corporate finance bond. 
On 10 August 2021 Mr F complained via his representative to Periscope Wealth Limited that 
the advice to transfer had been negligent. The letter of complaint said that a SIPP wasnt 
suitable for Mr F, who was an inexperienced investor. Adequate risk profiling hadnt been 
undertaken and Mr Fs capacity for loss hadnt been considered. The higher costs involved 
hadnt been explained and all the relevant risks hadnt been highlighted, including that the 
initial investment and returns werent guaranteed.  
Sterling Wealth Limited didnt uphold the complaint. The main points were:
Periscope Wealth Limited had made it clear  at the outset, in the terms of business 
and at a face to face appointment  that it was a restricted adviser, choosing only 
from the risk rated portfolios managed by the DFM who was regulated by the FCA 
(Financial Conduct Authority). 
The DFM had been introduced to Periscope Wealth Limited by the SIPP and platform 
provider. Periscope Wealth Limited were advised by the DFM and SIPP provider that 
the corporate finance bond element of the portfolio meant clients were able to benefit 
from strong fixed rate returns with solid asset backing. The bond was listed on the 
Irish Stock Exchange and the SIPP provider had carried out the necessary due 
diligence to allow the product on to its panel. Periscope Wealth Limited were also 
assured as to the liquidity of the bond.
In July 2018 Periscope Wealth Limited compared the DFMs portfolios with Sterling 
Wealth Limiteds portfolios and found the latter were performing marginally better at 
lower cost. Periscope Wealth Limited decided to move all their clients invested with 
the DFM into Sterling Wealth Limiteds portfolios. 
Periscope Wealth Limited doesnt have discretionary permissions and reached out to 
all clients invested via the DFM, including Mr F. He was contacted in July 2018 and 
made aware of the investment change and asked to complete and return an adviser 
changes form so his investment could be moved. Sterling Wealth Limited said 
several documented requests were made but it wasnt until December 2018 (five 
months later) that the signed and completed form was received. 
The SIPP provider was then asked to sell down Mr Fs portfolio but it wouldnt accept 
the instruction as the portfolio was managed by the DFM. It said the corporate 
finance bond was now illiquid a buyer for the bond needed to be found. 
Unfortunately, that didnt happen and the bond collapsed in June 2019. 
Every effort was made to move Mr Fs investment. The corporate bond accounted for 
30% of his overall pot. If the documentation had been received earlier, all of his 
investment couldve been moved, which was achieved for many clients. 
The advice was correct and in keeping with Mr Fs attitude to risk. He was fully 
informed of the investment he was making and as detailed in the pension switching 
report and suitability report. Periscope Wealth Limited did everything they could when 
they were made aware of the issues with the bond but they couldnt foresee what 
would happen to the bond. 
Sterling Wealth Limited later added that the decision to move all clients out of the bond was 
prompted by poor performance. Sterling Wealth Limiteds own portfolios were performing 
better and at a lower cost. And 79 clients were moved as they responded to the change of 
adviser request in a timely manner. Unfortunately Mr F was unable to respond and the 
situation with the bond deteriorated quickly, despite assurances from the DFM and the SIPP 
provider. 
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators considered it. After obtaining 
further information from Sterling Wealth Limited and Mr F she issued her view on 27 July 
2022. She upheld the complaint. Im not going to repeat here all the investigator said. But in 
summary: 
Mr Fs complaint was about the advice to transfer, not just that the corporate bond 
had become illiquid. 
Mr Fs personal pension was performing well and (although not an indication of future 
performance) better than the recommended portfolio. At age 65, assuming growth of 
4.1% Mr Fs personal pension was projected to be worth £64,800. Assuming the 
same performance for the new arrangement gave a lower fund value of £64,400. The 
suitability report noted that was due to the higher charging structure with the new 
arrangement. It was confirmed the new arrangement would need to provide higher 
returns (0.05% pa more) to provide the same fund at retirement. 
The investigator calculated that, during the first year of transferring to the SIPP and 
investing via the DFM, £1,397.95 would be deducted from Mr Fs pension fund. His 
existing personal pension had an annual management charge of 0.95%. Which 
equated to £247.76 pa. During the following years Mr F would pay £485.13 pa  the 
two annual fees charged by the SIPP provider and the DFM and Periscope Wealth 
Limiteds ongoing adviser charge. 
The suitability report dated 5 September 2017 said three options had been 
considered: leaving Mr Fs pension with the existing provider; leaving it there but 
switching funds; or setting up a new pension plan and moving his existing pension 
into that. The first two options were rejected on the basis that it wouldnt be possible 
to access the recommended DFMs investment strategy and provide total flexibility 
when taking benefits. 
The investigator didnt think Mr F wouldve transferred his only pension provision if 
hed fully understood it wasnt projected to improve on the benefits his existing 
personal pension would provide and would cost him more.  
The investigator set out what Sterling Wealth Limited needed to do to compensate Mr F fairly 
and on the basis hed have kept his existing personal pension. She said the previous provider should be asked to calculate a notional value but if that wasnt possible a 
benchmark could be used.
Mr Fs representative accepted the investigators findings. We emailed Sterling Wealth 
Limited on 22 December 2022 to say we were checking the file to make sure it was ready to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman so that a final decision could be issued. We noted we hadnt 
had any response to the investigators view and we enclosed a further copy. We asked for 
any further comments or evidence for consideration by the ombudsman. We said, if we didnt 
hear further, the ombudsman would make a final decision based on the evidence wed 
received to date. We told Sterling Wealth Limited that Mr F had accepted the investigators 
view. We havent heard back from Sterling Wealth Limited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the advice to switch to a SIPP was clearly unsuitable for Mr F. He was an 
inexperienced investor who didnt want to take too much risk. His fund was modest - 
£26,080.49. The investigator said it was his only pension provision at the time although Mr F 
had since joined an employers scheme. I think Mr F may already have been a member of a 
workplace pension scheme when the advice was given. But even if he was, hed only been a 
member for a year so the benefits hed accrued wouldve been very limited. Mr F didnt have 
any savings or other financial assets generally. I dont think he had any real capacity for loss. 
His first objective was to build up a retirement fund. So preserving what he had, even though 
that was modest, shouldve been a priority. 
The suitability report said remaining in his existing personal pension wasnt suitable as Mr F 
wouldnt be able to use the services of a DFM. Mr F may have said he liked the idea of 
using a DFM. But I dont see that a DFM was appropriate for an investor such as Mr F. He 
had no need for a DFM and the extra charges that would be incurred. 
Another reason given for switching was that Mr F wanted to access his pension benefits 
flexibly. But at the time of the advice he was 35 and hed said he planned to fully retire by 
age 67. So accessing his benefits was a long way off and that couldve been addressed 
closer to the time Mr F was looking to retire. I dont see it was suitable advice for him to 
incur, in the interim, the higher charges the new arrangement presented. And the higher 
charges of the new arrangement meant that Mr Fs fund would need to generate higher 
returns if his fund at retirement wasnt going to be lower than if hed left it where it was. 
I dont see the reasons given for the switch were justified. Mr F was switched to a more 
complex and more expensive arrangement without good reason. I think suitable advice 
wouldve been for him to maintain his existing personal pension. And if his income permitted, 
make further pension contributions to build up his retirement provision.
Sterling Wealth Limited has said Mr Fs losses couldve been avoided or reduced if hed 
responded when Periscope Wealth Limited got in contact about changing advisers. Sterling 
Wealth Limited says Mr F was contacted in July 2018. But no activity is shown on the 
spreadsheet which Sterling Wealth Limited has supplied, setting out the actions it took, 
including contact with Mr F. From that it seems Mr Fs annual review was posted to him in 4 
September 2018, which appears to have been the first contact with Mr F in 2018. The 
spreadsheet records the change of adviser form was posted to Mr F on 26 September 2018. 
It seems issues then arose  the form was resent several times and Mr F said hed posted it 
back but for some reason it wasnt received until 7 December 2018. Sterling Wealth Limited has said that other clients portfolios with the DFM were disinvested 
earlier and before the bond became illiquid. Sterling Wealth Limiteds point is that Mr Fs 
losses would be reduced if hed returned the form sooner. 
Wed generally expect a consumer to take reasonable steps to mitigate any losses. But from 
what Ive seen the new adviser form wasnt sent to Mr F until towards the end of September 
2018. So it didnt take him five months to send it back. And it seems he did return the form 
promptly even if, for whatever reason, it didnt reach Periscope Wealth Limited/Sterling 
Wealth Limited. So I dont think it would be fair to say Mr F failed to take steps to mitigate his 
losses. Mr F was only invested in the portfolio/bond because thats what Periscope Wealth 
Limited had advised. That advice was unsuitable. So Sterling Wealth Limited, as principal, is 
responsible for the losses Mr F has suffered in consequence of Periscope Wealth Limiteds 
unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible
to the position hed probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr F 
wouldve remained with his previous provide. However I cant be certain that a value will be 
obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. Im satisfied what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable taking this into account and Mr Fs circumstances and 
objectives when he invested. I agree with the redress suggested by the investigator. Its 
aimed at putting Mr F back in the position he would be in, had he retained his existing 
personal pension. Ive set it out again here. 
What should Sterling Wealth Limited do?
To compensate Mr F fairly Sterling Wealth Limited should: 
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss Sterling Wealth Limited should pay into Mr Fs pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Sterling Wealth Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr F wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr F £250 for the distress caused by the total loss of one of the investments and 
the disruption to his retirement plans.Repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the notional 
value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sterling Wealth Limited considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr F how much as been taken off and give him a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Ascentric 
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider or 
50/50 
benchmark 
set out 
below Date of 
investmentDate of 
settlement Not 
applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio (or any of the investments) is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. 
So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Sterling 
Wealth Limited should take ownership of the illiquid portfolio by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount paid should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Sterling Wealth Limited is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Sterling Wealth Limited may wish to require 
that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay Sterling Wealth Limited any amount he may 
receive from the portfolio in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges 
that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Sterling Wealth Limited 
will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
notional value
This is the value of Mr F's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the
end date. Sterling Wealth Limited should request that the previous provider calculates this 
value. 
Any additional sum paid into the Ascentric SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the 
Ascentric SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those 
payments are totalled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Sterling Wealth Limited will 
need to determine a fair value for Mr Fs investment instead, using this benchmark: For half 
the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a 
fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
benchmark Ive set out is appropriate: The average rate for the fixed rate bonds 
would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return 
without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr F 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr F couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objectives and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sterling Wealth Limited must redress Mr F as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman