DRN-1159156
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent supported a claim he made 
to them under section 75 (section 75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor (Mr S), creditor (Barclays), 
supplier (the airline) relationship. But here the credit card used by Mr S, that was provided by 
Barclays, was used to pay the booking agent and not the airline. So, there isnt a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship and Barclays were therefore not being unreasonable 
when they rejected Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
