DRN-3716501
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In January 2021, Mr As account received credits of £345.62, £325.71 and £35. The vast 
majority of the funds were immediately transferred on to a third-party. Monzo subsequently 
received a notification from the third-party bank, responsible for sending two of these 
payments to Mr As account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim 
of fraud. It subsequently received a similar notification from one of its own customers in 
relation to the third transaction. 
Monzo decided to block Mr As account pending a review. As a result of the review, it 
decided to close to close the account and also record a fraud prevention marker against    
Mr A.
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained. Monzo looked at Mr As complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that Monzo had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in January 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr A has said that he knows nothing about what happened on his account because he lost 
his card. He said that he didnt report his card lost or realise what was going on his account 
because he didnt really use it as he only had need for it when he was abroad. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im afraid that what hes said simply isnt 
plausible here. Firstly, Mr A has told us that he never really used this account. But his 
account statements show that he was using it for purchases, transactions and was making 
credits from another of his account right up to the point the fraudulent activity took place. So 
I have to question why he didnt report his card lost or challenge why his account was being 
closed at the time. 
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that Mr A did lose his card, for the avoidance of doubt I 
wish to make it clear that I dont, this wasnt explain how an opportunistic fraudster who 
simply found it was able to log on to his mobile banking using his credentials. The fact that 
Mr As mobile banking credentials were used in this way does suggest that he was involved 
in what was taking place on his account.   
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr A was not an unwitting participant in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account and then being transferred onwards. So I dont think that Monzo 
acted unfairly towards Mr A when recording a fraud marker against him. And Im therefore 
not upholding Mr As complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope Mr A will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman