DRN-4146492
The complaint
Ms R complains that she was not advised that she had two days free European cover 
included on her existing breakdown policy. Shes unhappy that she wasnt told about this 
when she contacted Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (the AA) to 
arrange a single trip European breakdown cover for a scheduled trip abroad.
 
What happened
In April 2022, Ms R contacted the AA. She advised them that she was going on a one-way 
trip to Greece, and wanted to take out a breakdown policy that would provide cover for the 
journey. She was sold cover for a one-week trip at a cost of around £134, which included a 
discount. The cover was agreed to, and paid for by card over the phone, with Ms R 
mentioning that the cost was similar to what she took out last year. 
Shortly after, Ms R contacted the AA again. She said she was never advised that her 
existing AA membership, which was joint with her husband, included 48 hours of European 
breakdown cover. She said that had she been made aware; she wouldnt have taken out the 
new cover  so, she complained. She said the AA should refund the cost of the new policy 
as it wasnt needed. 
The AA responded. They accepted that they shouldve realised that Ms R had some cover in 
place, and that this shouldve been brought to her attention during the call. But they said that 
the quote Ms R was offered, and which she accepted, was cheaper than what she would 
have paid if using the free cover available, given that she wanted cover for seven days. So, 
they didnt think Ms R had been disadvantaged by the mistake. But they agreed to send her 
a payment of £10 as an apology. 
Unhappy with this, Ms R brought her complaint to our service. She said the trip couldve 
been completed within 48 hours, and therefore she wouldnt have had to pay for any 
additional cover had she been made aware of what was already in place. 
An investigator considered Ms Rs complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that he thought the cover the AA sold Ms R was appropriate, given how long shed 
said she intended to spend driving to Greece. But Ms R remained unhappy, so the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the AAs service levels fell short in not informing Ms R that she had 
two days free cover in place. Ive listened to the sales call, and the AAs advisor asks Ms R 
whether or not she has any other breakdown cover that may cover her, and she says that 
she doesnt. Given her existing membership with the AA at the time, I think the advisor 
shouldve been aware of what cover Ms R had in place, and should have informed her that 
she had two days European cover included under her current policy. So, Ive gone onto think 
about what Ms R would have done had she been made aware. 
Ms R has argued that despite the overall journey being a significant distance; starting in the 
UK, driving through France, Italy and into Greece  that this trip could have been completed 
within the 48-hour period. 
While what Ms R has said is possible, it is a significant distance, and would involve long 
periods of driving on each day. Ive also thought about what Ms R said when she took out 
the cover. She initially said to the advisor that I only want the cover for a week to get me 
there. Also, when the advisor asked more detailed questions about the trip  the advisor 
says so you are leaving on the 12th, and Ms R confirms this is correct. The advisor then 
asks Ms R what date she is arriving, and Ms R says: it should be the 18th, but to be safe, 
can I have the cover for a week  from the 12th to the 19th would be good. 
So, while Ms R may be right that the journey could be completed within 48 hours, and 
therefore within the free cover period, it seems clear from the initial call that this was never 
Ms Rs intention. And she initially envisaged the trip taking 6 days, and then extended the 
cover to last 7 days in order to be safe. So, on balance, Im not persuaded the one-week 
policy Ms R was sold was inappropriate at the time, given what she told the advisor about 
the journey.
Ive also thought about whether Ms R couldve chosen to take the cover for the 7-day period, 
but then utilised the 2-day free element of her membership, so that she only paid for five. But 
the AA have told us that they cant stack the discounts in this way, and that it would be either 
the percentage reduction or the 2 days free. Ms Rs existing gold policy does set out that:
Gold Membership entitles the main Member to use the discount equivalent to:
 2 days of AA European Breakdown Cover applied up to 3 times within the UK Membership 
Breakdown Cover policy year 
OR
 10% off AA European Breakdown Cover for one annual policy during the UK Membership 
Breakdown Cover policy year.
While I appreciate this term refers to allowing the customer either the two days free cover or 
a 10% reduction on an annual breakdown cover policy, I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude that Ms R would not be entitled to both a percentage discount and the two days 
free when it comes to a weekly policy either. And, when calculating the daily cost of the 
policy, even if the AA had realised Ms R already had this in place and had reduced the cost 
of the seven day cover by two days, the overall cost of the policy wouldve still been more 
than the one that was arranged. So, while there was a shortfall in the service provided by the 
AA, Im not persuaded that Ms R has experienced a financial loss as a result.
Overall then, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Ms R, for the reasons 
set out above, I wont be instructing the AA to make any further award than the £10 
compensatory payment they have paid Ms R already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman