DRN-3732296
The complaint
Mr F complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Gresham, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here. 
In 2011, Mr F purchased a property from a developer. Shortly after, he became aware of 
some issues with the property and in 2012 he made a claim under his legal expenses 
insurance policy to pursue legal action against the developer. His insurers, Gresham, 
accepted the claim and in 2017 a settlement was agreed. 
Mr F tells us that the settlement was never performed, and the claim became statute barred. 
But in 2019, the developer made a new offer which resulted in a non-negotiable agreement 
between the parties. 
Unfortunately, the agreement wasnt completed. So Mr F made a further claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy to enforce the 2019 agreement. 
Gresham says this claim is a continuation of the 2012 claim. And as the policys limit of 
indemnity has already been exhausted, theres no further funding to take this matter forward. 
But Mr F doesnt agree. He says this is an entirely new set of proceedings as nothing more 
can be done about the 2017 settlement due to it being statute barred. He wants Gresham to 
treat this as a new claim and provide a new limit of indemnity.
Mr F raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold 
it. She wasnt satisfied this was a new claim, as it arose from the same set of circumstances 
as the first. So she didnt think Gresham had acted incorrectly or unfairly by declining the 
claim. 
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs legal expenses insurance policy say:
We will insure you for any costs and expenses incurred in respect of legal 
proceedings following an insured incident provided thatthe maximum amount we 
will pay for costs and expenses in respect of any or all claims arising from one cause 
is the amount shown in your schedule.
The policy provides an indemnity of £50,000, defined as: 
Limit of indemnity - the maximum amount shown in the schedule which we will pay 
for an event. We will treat all events that are linked by cause or time as one event.
The policy defines event as:
Event - The first incident which, in our reasonable opinion, could lead to a claim 
being made under this section of the policy.
I appreciate why Mr F feels that his claim is a new set of proceedings. But this doesnt mean 
its a new event and therefore a new claim in the context of his policy terms and conditions. 
Its clear from the extracts above that the intention of the policy is to provide one indemnity 
per event. And where there are many ongoing linked events, the policy will consider them as 
one.
The enforcement of the 2019 agreement isnt a new event. It arises from the same cause 
and time as the 2017 settlement, which originates to the purchase of the property in 2011. 
The first event that leads to this claim is the discovery of the defects with the property which 
arose in approximately 2011 / 2012.
So whilst I sympathise with Mr Fs position, I cant fairly say this is an new claim which 
warrants a new limit of indemnity. Its clear that its a continuation of the previous dispute. 
And as the limit of indemnity has already been exhausted for this event, its not incorrect or 
unfair that Gresham has declined to provide further cover.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman