DRN-4050810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Target Servicing Limited continued to write to them about 
properties they didnt own or have loans against after it should have corrected its records.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage administered by Target Servicing Limited. In 2020               
Mr and Mrs Js neighbours were having difficulty selling their property because of an issue 
with the title deed  an issue that also affected other properties in the vicinity. That issue has 
been described to us as Mr and Mrs J being leaseholders of their neighbours property. And 
the matter was to be resolved by Mr and Mrs J transferring the plot of concern to their 
neighbours, which required permission and the completion of a form by Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage lender and administrator (Target), respectively.
There were delays in that process and they were the subject of a complaint brought by       
Mr and Mrs J to Target separately to this complaint. That process was completed in        
April 2021.
While the change necessary for the sale of Mr and Mrs Js neighbours property had been 
completed, Target failed to update its own records accordingly. That led to Target sending 
subsequent correspondence to Mr and Mrs J  as it previously had  quoting property that 
was not their own and against which they had no loans. 
Mrs J says she has mental health issues and found the whole matter difficult to deal with. 
She said the matter caused her embarrassment because, as part of the process, her 
neighbours that were affected by the issue became aware of Mr and Mrs Js financial 
circumstances. And, because Target wrote to her again without updating its records, she 
thought the matter was unresolved and shed have to go through the whole process again 
along with the embarrassment shed previously suffered. She says that caused her 
substantial distress and anxiety.
Mr and Mrs J complained about the additional addresses quoted on Targets letter in        
July 2022. Target responded with an apology, and it confirmed it had arranged for its records 
to reflect the correct security address. However, in November 2022, Target sent                 
Mr and Mrs J further correspondence containing a similar error. That led Mr and Mrs J to 
complain again. In its final response letter dated 7 January 2023, Target apologised again 
and said it would amend its records. In both letters Target offered Mr and Mrs J £50 to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors - £100 in total.
Dissatisfied with Targets response Mr and Mrs J asked us to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator upheld their complaint because she thought Target should increase its offer of 
compensation with regard to the distress and inconvenience its failures to update its records 
had caused Mr and Mrs J. She said she didnt think Targets offer of £100 fairly reflected the 
impact its failures had on Mrs J in particular. Our investigator said Target should pay          
Mr and Mrs J £250 to resolve their complaint. 
Target didnt agree. It said it had awarded a total of £140 and that was sufficient because it 
had no control over delays caused by third parties. Our investigator responded and 
confirmed that her opinion did not relate to Targets actions in relation to the delay in the 
amendment of the title deed, only its failure to update its own records to reflect the 
amendment of the title deed. And it was Targets offer in relation to that in particular she 
thought wasnt sufficient, having thought about the impact caused. However, Target still 
didnt agree, so Mr and Mrs Js complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence available, I can see that the events central to Mr and Mrs Js complaint 
are not in dispute. In Targets final response letters, it acknowledged it had failed to amend 
its records initially  following the completion of the work carried out to amend the title deed. 
And it acknowledged it had failed to update its records after Mr and Mrs J complained about 
its initial failure. So, to decide Mr and Mrs Js complaint, Ill only be considering whether its 
offer to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failures was 
sufficient given the circumstances.
Target offered Mr and Mrs J £50 in respect of its initial failure and a further £50 in respect of 
its second failure. Ive considered what Mr and Mrs J said about the impact of Targets 
failures. It appears from the contact notes and the call recordings provided by Target that 
Mrs J usually deals with Target in relation to their mortgage administered by it. She says the 
process to have the title deeds amended  in particular, Targets role in that  was stressful. 
She says Mr and Mrs J suffered embarrassment because their financial difficulty was 
exposed to their affected neighbours, and she says that Target was insisting they address 
the arrears on the mortgage account before it would facilitate the alteration of the title deeds. 
And, underlying all that, Mrs J says she suffers with her mental health.
Targets handling of the amendment of the title deeds isnt a matter Im addressing as part of 
this complaint. I mention it here as background to illustrate what Mr and Mrs J had already 
experienced. And because Mrs J says the subsequent letters they received  showing the 
addresses of her neighbours as part of the security on her mortgage  caused them distress 
because they thought from those letters that the matter was not resolved, meaning they may 
have to go through the whole process again. Mrs J says those fears were made worse 
because of her mental health.
I think Target should have updated its records following the amendment of the title deeds. It 
made an error in not doing so. Having had that error pointed out to Target, and having 
acknowledged the error in response to a complaint, I think it should have taken extra care to 
makes sure it then updated its records and ensure that it didnt write to Mr and Mrs J 
incorrectly. But again, it failed to do that, causing more distress to Mr and Mrs J.
Our role isnt to punish businesses for their errors. Instead, we look to compensate 
consumers for material loss and for distress and/or inconvenience caused to them because 
of a business error. To assess distress and inconvenience, we must consider the impact to 
the individual consumer. 
In this case Mr and Mrs J were concerned they would have to repeat a process that had 
already caused them significant distress. I think its likely that the letters from Target would 
have caused Mrs J significant distress again because of her mental health concerns. And 
Ive heard from call recordings that Target knew Mrs J had found the title deed amendment 
process stressful  shed broken down, sobbing on at least one call and often mentioned her 
mental health concerns.I also think, in situations such as this, a repeated error doesnt simply cause the same 
distress all over again. Instead, I think the distress can be compounded, resulting in a 
greater impact to the individual consumer. And I think thats likely to have been the case 
here.
Having considered all the evidence available, I agree with our investigator that Targets offer 
to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience its errors cause them wasnt 
sufficient. I also agree that a more appropriate amount to compensate them is £250.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint, Target should pay them a total of £250 in respect of its 
failure to update its records following the amendment to their title deeds and the distress and 
inconvenience that failure caused.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Target Servicing Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman