DRN-4237012
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the service she received from Post Office Management Services 
Limited.
What happened
Mrs T contacted Post Office by phone in February 2023 to get a quote for a travel insurance 
policy. She took out a policy during the phone call. Mrs T contacted Post Office again by 
phone and asked for the policy documents to be sent to her by post. 
She received a document through the post and contacted Post Office again as she felt the 
policy had been sold under false pretences. This was because the document that she had 
received said, under Whats Insured? that there was cover for accidental bodily injury 
which within 12 months causes your death (up to age 65) or loss of limb, loss of sight or 
permanent total disablement. Mrs T said that this was discriminatory, and shed been sold a 
policy which didnt apply to her. Post Office cancelled the policy and issued a refund. Mrs T 
asked to raise a complaint and was directed to make a complaint online. Mrs T contacted 
Post Office again by phone to make a complaint. There was a lengthy discussion about the 
document Mrs T had and the information that the Post Office had. A complaint was logged. 
Post Office issued a final response letter and awarded Mrs T £20 compensation and 20% off 
a new policy. They said Mrs T hadnt asked for a copy of the documents by post in the sales 
call and clarified the personal accident cover available for people over the age of 65. They 
acknowledged the poor service Mrs T had received during some of the phone calls. 
Unhappy, Mrs T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and partly upheld the complaint. He didnt 
think the policy was mis-sold or that Mrs T had been discriminated against by Post Office. 
However, he did think Mrs T had received poor customer service and awarded a total of 
£100 compensation. 
Post Office accepted the investigators findings. Mrs T didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. She said, in summary, she wasnt informed about 
having a different pay out if she died and the booklet which had all of the hidden details 
wasnt sent to her. She said she didnt think the policy should be different for people over 60 
and that it wasnt acceptable for customers to not to be made aware of this important point.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs T asked to speak to the ombudsman who makes the decision about her 
complaint. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service and 
Im satisfied that I have enough information to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Im partially upholding Mrs Ts complaint and directing Post Office to pay a total of £100 
compensation. But Im not directing Post Office to do anything more to put things right. Ill 
explain why. 
Customer service
Mrs T was asked during the sales call whether she was happy for Post Office to email the 
policy confirmation to her. She confirmed that she was. Towards the end of the call she was 
told shed receive a link to register and gain access to the policy documents by email and 
within four hours. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Post Office didnt send her the 
documents by post following the initial sales call. 
However, Post Office should have sent Mrs T the policy booklet when she contacted them to 
ask more questions about the policy about a week after shed taken it out. It appears most 
likely Mrs T was sent some information, which included, the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) but not the booklet which contains the full terms and conditions. I think she 
should have been sent the full policy booklet as well, but this was, most likely, human error. 
Unfortunately, this led to significant confusion when she later raised a complaint. 
The service Mrs T received during some of the calls was poor. For example, her complaint 
was not logged over the phone when she first said she wanted to make a complaint. And, at 
times, the various customer service representatives were impatient and curt with her. So, I 
dont think she received a good service throughout her dealings with Post Office.      
The mis-sale of the policy and the policy documentation
Post Office didnt give Mrs T advice about whether the policy was suitable for her demands 
and needs. So, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say, in summary, that Post Office 
had a responsibility to give her enough information about the policy to decide if it was right 
for her. That includes giving her information which was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mrs T wasnt told about the limitations of the personal accident and death cover during the 
sales call. But she didnt ask about personal accident cover or suggest that was particularly 
important to her. During the call she talked about the baggage cover, gadget cover and 
explained what she was looking to cover for her trip, for example a boat trip she was 
planning to go on. So, I think she had the opportunity to discuss this if it was something that 
she felt was particularly important to her. 
I dont think the policy term Mrs T complains about is particularly unusual. So, its not 
something Id typically expect Post Office to draw to Mrs Ts attention during a sales call 
unless she expressed a particular interest in or concern about that aspect of cover. I 
appreciate Mrs T has since identified travel insurers who offer higher levels of personal 
accident cover and death benefits to policyholders who are over 60 or 65. But, that doesnt 
mean the policy has been mis-sold as its not uncommon for policies to contain such 
limitations. Ill go on to address Mrs Ts concerns about discrimination below. 
Mrs T feels she was sold the policy under false pretences and that the document she 
received was different to what she agreed to over the phone. I dont agree thats the case as 
there was no discussion about personal accident cover during the call. Mrs T was later sent, by post, the IPID. This isnt the full policy document but is designed to 
summarise information including the main risks insured, the insured sum and excluded risks. 
Its a document which Post Office is required to issue when it sells a policy, alongside the full 
terms and conditions. But the IPID is designed to be read with the full policy terms, details of 
which Mrs T had been initially sent by email, but which were not sent to her by post. The full 
policy terms explained in more detail the limitations on benefits for policyholders over the 
age of 65. 
In my view, this created the impression when Mrs T raised her complaint, that there was a 
discrepancy between the information Mrs T was looking at in the IPID and the information 
Post Office were looking at in the full policy document. I dont think there was any such 
discrepancy or hidden details as Mrs T suggests. I think there was more likely confusion 
because Mrs T was looking at the IPID, not the full policy wording. It was unhelpful that Post 
Office didnt identify what document she was looking at, despite her naming it during the call 
and that it failed to send her the full policy booklet alongside the IPID.
I dont think the policy booklet contained hidden details. Im satisfied the policy booklet 
contained the full terms which are summarised in the IPID. Mrs T explained in the call that 
she thought the information about the personal accident cover should be set out in the What 
is not insured? column. I dont agree as I think its adequately clear that theres a limitation 
on the benefit for policyholders over 65 even though it appears in the Whats insured? 
column as opposed to the Whats not insured? column. 
In fact, in this case, the IPID performed its core function as Mrs T was immediately able to 
identify that the policy wasnt right for her because she wanted a different level of personal 
accident and/or death benefits from her travel insurance. So, even if I thought that the policy 
was mis-sold during the call, the IPID did provide her with enough information to decide if the 
policy was right for her. Thats what it is designed to do, and I dont think it means Mrs T 
received a document she didnt agree to, a false document or that the IPID disagreed with 
the full policy terms. 
Furthermore, even if I accepted the policy was mis-sold, I think Post Office has done enough 
to put things right here. When Mrs T said she was unhappy with the level of cover, they 
cancelled it and issued a full refund. Thats what Id expect them to do in such 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mrs T feels strongly that the policy documentation and sales process should 
be changed and that shes now contacted Post Offices Chief Executive Officer about this 
matter. But my role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
this complaint.
Discrimination
Post Office is responsible for the sale of the policy. But it doesnt decide what the insured 
risks or insured sums under the policy are. Thats the responsibility of the insurer who 
underwrites the policy. If Mrs T has continued concerns about this issue, shell need to raise 
them with the underwriter of the policy as our investigator explained. 
However, I have still thought about whether Post Office has discriminated against Mrs T 
given the problems shes experienced. I can understand why Mrs T feels this way but having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think Post Office has done so. Nor do I think Post Office 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mrs T to know that someone impartial 
and independent has looked into her concerns. Putting things right
I think Mrs T was caused distress and inconvenience due to the poor service she received 
from the Post Office in phone calls and by their failure to send her the policy booklet. I also 
think it caused avoidable confusion. 
But, Mrs T was able to promptly cancel the policy when she knew the level of cover wasnt 
what she wanted and shes received a refund. So, I think a total of £100 compensation fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to her during this period of about two weeks.   
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Ts complaint about Post Office Management Services Limited 
and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman