DRN-3042326
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Theyre 
unhappy that the mortgage current account (MCA) overdraft facility was removed without 
notice. Theyd intended using the facility to fund a property purchase on which theyd already 
exchanged contracts. They managed to do so by accessing other funds they had at their 
disposal, but say this has come at an extra financial cost, as well as causing them a lot of 
distress.
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The main facts arent in dispute, and Barclays has accepted fault and made an offer to settle 
the complaint. All Im required to decide is whether that offer is fair so I will focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays had already offered £450 compensation for Mr and Mrs Ks time, trouble and upset. 
Subsequently, it agreed to a recommendation by our investigator that it waive the £250 fee 
payable when a mortgage is redeemed.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions:
The terms of the mortgage are such that as soon as the underlying mortgage balance is 
repaid, the overdraft is withdrawn and cant be reinstated. That the mortgage was on 
schedule to be repaid in 2020 rather than 2028 was down to something Barclays 
mis-handled in 2013. But Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K were aware of this, not least 
because in September 2020, they messaged Barclays to say they didnt want the 
mortgage to be closed down. Also, theyve benefitted from this down the years by the 
fact that bringing down the mortgage balance more quickly has substantially reduced the 
interest they paid.
That was after theyd exchanged contracts on the purchase, but on balance, Im 
persuaded they would most likely have known the mortgage balance was close to being 
repaid in full (thus imperiling the overdraft facility) sooner than that, and probably before 
the exchange of contracts. I say that because of the statements Barclays sent them 
every month. If Mr and Mrs K werent aware of the situation before exchange, Im 
satisfied they should have been. 
Insofar as Mr and Mrs K were intending to use the overdraft facility to fund their 
purchase, I think it would have been prudent for them, before exchanging contracts, to 
have agreed formally with Barclays whatever steps were necessary to make sure the 
overdraft facility would still be available when needed. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think they did enough to mitigate the position before exchange. For that reason alone, I 
dont find that Barclays should reimburse the extra costs Mr and Mrs K incurred by 
funding the purchase through alternative means.
For the time, trouble and upset Mr and Mrs K experienced, I consider £450 to be fair 
compensation. Its broadly in line with the level of award Id generally make in similar 
circumstances. I also find that the investigators recommendation that Barclays waive the 
£250 fee due on redemption to cover the cost of releasing the legal charge is reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Ks strength of feeling, Im satisfied the 
current proposal for settling their complaint is fair and that theres no basis for me to order 
Barclays to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Barclays bank UK PLC to:
waive the £250 redemption fee for closing down the mortgage and releasing its legal 
charge; and
pay Mr and Mrs K £450 compensation.
I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman