DRN-4048982
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, who Ill call 
Santander.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality 
and Im asking them to take some action to put things right for Miss E. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here,
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss E acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
The transfer box issue was originally identified in September 2021, only three months into 
the agreement. The supplying dealership didnt agree to repair that issue. They offered to 
contribute to the repair cost, but as the fault occurred so soon after Miss E took receipt of the 
car I think, bearing in mind the relevant legislation, it was likely the fault was present or 
developing when it was supplied to her. In those circumstances the relevant legislation 
allows the business one opportunity to fix the fault but if that repair fails the consumer should 
be allowed to reject the vehicle.
As the supplying dealership refused to repair the fault I dont think Miss E was wrong to take 
it to a third party repairer. The repair was completed in November 2021, but I dont think it 
was entirely successful as there were issues identified with the transfer box again in April 
and July 2022, and during the independent inspectors examination in November 2022. As 
the repair seems likely to have failed I think Santander should now allow Miss E to reject the 
car and end her agreement with them.
In a case like this, which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances to be considered 
under the relevant legislation, would include things like the age and mileage at the time the 
car was supplied to Miss E. The car here was nearly six years old and had already 
completed a little over 50,000 miles. So, Id expect some wear and tear to be present and for 
the car not to be in perfect condition, as would perhaps be the case with a brand new car. 
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect extensive problems on a car of this age 
and mileage.
When we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality, the relevant legislation
also explains we should consider whether it has been durable.
So, even if Im wrong about the failed transfer box repair, I think Miss E should be allowed to 
reject this car as I dont think its been durable. Since she took receipt of the car in July 2021 
shes had problems with:
The key.
An oil leak between the gearbox and transfer box.
The tailgate wiring loom which needed replacing.
A broken and a missing tailgate strut.
Drive shafts that needed replacing.
An engine mount bush.
The cam shaft.
A rear light seal.
The parking aid module.
A loose exhaust heat shield.
A failed battery, and;
The steering wheel locking up.
Whilst I appreciate that many of these faults occurred after some time, I think the catalogue 
of problems Miss E has, and continues to, experience with this car suggests it hasnt been 
sufficiently durable. I think thats another reason that Santander should allow Miss E to reject 
the vehicle.
Putting things right
Santander should collect the car at no cost to Miss E and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Miss E has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss E has had to pay for several repairs to the car and Ive considered whether it would be 
fair to ask Santander to refund all of those repair costs. I think it is, as its the cumulative 
impact of all of those repairs that is one of the reasons Im suggesting the car should be 
rejected. Miss E will need to provide receipts for the work that has been completed and 
Santander will need to add interest to any refunds as Miss E has been deprived of the 
money.
Miss E took the car back to the dealership on 15 September 2021 but didnt get it back until 
25 October 2021, and shes explained that she wasnt given a courtesy car during that period. Its not fair for Miss E to be paying for a car she had no use of, so Santander will 
need to provide a pro-rata refund of finance instalments for that period, and for any other 
period Miss E can evidence she was without the car whilst it was being repaired. Theyll 
need to add interest to those refunds.
I think Miss E has also experienced some distress and inconvenience here. Shes had to 
take the car to be repaired on several occasions and has had to escalate her complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances Im asking 
Santander to pay her £150 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
Allow Miss E to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss E.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of finance instalments for the period 15 September 2021 to 
25 October 2021 in respect of loss of use, and a similar pro-rata refund for any other 
periods Miss E can demonstrate that the car was being repaired and unusable. Add 
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the repair costs Miss E has incurred on provision of receipts, and add 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss E £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Es credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest, it must 
give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss E asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman