DRN-2932436
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 25 September 2020, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline. The agreement was for £16,224.94 over 48 months; with 47 
monthly repayments of £478.90 and a final payment of £488.90. At the time, the car was six 
and a half years old and had done 79,149 miles.
The car broke down on 22 November 2020. There was a problem with the fuel delivery 
system and the car went back to the supplying dealership the following day. The dealership 
fixed the car and it was returned to Mr S on 26 November 2020. Mr S was provided with a 
hire car, through the warranty, while the car was being repaired.
Mr S said he suffered further problems three weeks later with the car going into limp mode. 
The dealership couldnt look at the car until 13 January 2021, but when they did, they 
provided Mr S with a courtesy car. The car was returned to Mr S on 21 April 2021. But he 
had issues with the turbo and returned it to the dealership the same day. 
Because of the ongoing problems, Startline allowed Mr S to reject the car. They unwound 
the agreement and amended Mr Ss credit file. They also refunded Mr S the equivalent of 
five monthly payments and paid him an additional £150 compensation. Mr S wasnt happy 
with this offer, so he referred his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said there was no dispute over the quality of the car, and that Startline acted 
reasonably by allowing Mr S to reject it. He said that Mr S was without a working car from 
mid-December 2020 to 13 January 2021. But the dealership gave Mr S a courtesy car when 
the car went in for repair in January 2021.
The investigator recognised that the courtesy car supplied wasnt as big as Mr Ss car and 
this caused him problems when transporting a disabled relative. So he said Mr S should be 
refunded some of the payments hed made. But he also thought that Mr S should pay for the 
car while he was able to use it. So he thought that Startline refunding five months payments 
and paying Mr S an additional £150 was reasonable in the circumstances. And he didnt 
think they needed to increase this. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He thought the investigators view was unfair, so this 
matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr S to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
Startline accepted that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S, and 
allowed him to reject the car. And in doing so, they unwound the credit agreement, refunded 
Mr S five months payments, updated his credit file, and paid him £150 compensation. But Mr 
S thinks all of the payments hes made should be refunded and, because he was severely 
affected by the impact of what happened, he also thinks the compensation should be 
increased to £5,000.
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr S first took the car back to the dealership on 8 November 
2020. And it was in and out the garage a few times until it broke down around 10 December 
2020. I appreciate the inconvenience this put Mr S to, especially as he was only given a hire 
car through the warranty for three days during this period.
But this means that, out of the seven months Mr S had the car, he had full use of it for all of 
the period from 25 September to 8 November 2020; full use (or a hire car) for most of the 
period from 8 November to 10 December 2020; no use from 10 December 2020 to 13 
January 2021; and a courtesy car from 13 January 2021 until the car was rejected in April 
2021. And, as Mr S had some use of the car, I think its only fair that he pays for this use.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S was without use of either this car or a hire / 
courtesy car for less than two months. Which means that, if Startline hadnt already provided 
Mr S with a refund, Id expect them to refund no more than two months payments for the 
time Mr S didnt have use of any car, and to partially refund the payments for the three 
months that he had use of the courtesy car to reflect that hed been provided with a smaller 
car, so it wasnt what he was paying for. But, given that Startline have refunded five months 
full payments, Im satisfied this is reasonable and I wont be asking them to refund any 
further payments.
I appreciate Mr S was concerned about the safety of the car, and what might happen. But 
Im considering what actually happened. So I wont be asking Startline to compensate Mr S 
for what mightve been. Mr S was inconvenienced by having to take the car in for repair on a number of occasions. 
But, as the payment refund already compensates him for the time he was without a car, and 
for having a courtesy car for an extended period that wasnt similar to what he was paying 
for, Im satisfied that the £150 already paid adequately compensates Mr S for the additional 
inconvenience he was put to. And I wont be asking Startline to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman