DRN-2884814
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs R payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mrs R has said she would not have agreed to the PPI as she had no need for it. So Ive 
taken that to mean that Mrs R is saying the PPI was added without her consent or 
knowledge. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. But I dont have 
that kind of evidence. 
Also, from what we know of Bank of Scotlands processes at the time, it would be more 
usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in the documents. I think its more likely this is 
what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mrs R doesnt now 
remember it. 
But, as Ive said, without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair anyway to say the PPI was 
added without Mrs Rs consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, as I explain, I dont think these apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs R, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Rs 
particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Rs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs R were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs R would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs R in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs R couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs R would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs R to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (although I acknowledge, she is saying she 
wasnt even aware of the PPI being offered or added).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether Mrs R took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman