DRN-2662560
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited refused his unemployment claim.
What happened
Mr H held an income protection plan that included unemployment cover. He made an
unemployment claim. Assurant General turned down the claim, as Mr Hs former employer
said his employment had ended through mutual agreement, which wasnt covered by the
policy. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that the 
information provided to Assurant General by Mr Hs former employers said Mr H had opted 
to accept a settlement agreement, and this meant that he hadnt become involuntarily 
unemployed, as required by the policy. So, our investigator found it fair for Assurant General 
to refuse the claim, based on this information.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He said he had been told his employment would 
be terminated regardless of whether he signed the settlement agreement or not. So, he 
doesnt think it is fair that his claim had been declined.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr H feels very strongly that his policy should cover him in these circumstances. He
has made a number of detailed points about the circumstances of him leaving his
employment, which I have read and considered. It is important to point out that were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for consumers. 
In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather 
than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy 
to Mr H. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. 
So, what I need to consider is whether Assurant Generals decision to refuse Mr Hs claim is 
fair and reasonable.
The policy Mr H had taken out includes the following terms:
Unemployment Exclusions
We will not pay You any Unemployment benefits resulting from the following 
circumstances;
6.3.9. if You become voluntarily Unemployed (which includes ending Your Work 
voluntarily during a period of notice given by Your employer) or voluntary 
redundancy;
The policy also includes the following definition;
Unemployment, Unemployed Being entirely out of Work involuntarily
When assessing the claim, Assurant General contacted Mr Hs former employers for 
information about the reasons why he left their employment. They said that it was optional 
for Mr H to accept the agreement offered. And they advised that the settlement agreement 
was initiated by mutual agreement. Upon receiving this information, Assurant General 
declined to cover Mr Hs claim as it said that Mr Hs employment was not ended involuntarily.
Mr H believes he didnt leave his employment voluntarily. He says that the settlement 
agreement wasnt initiated by mutual agreement and he didnt have a real choice as he had 
been told that his employment would be terminated regardless of whether he signed the 
agreement or not. But Ive also noted his comments about choosing not to go to an 
employment tribunal due to lengthy backlogs which wouldnt have been financially viable and 
so this is why he felt he had no choice but to sign the agreement. 
I appreciate this was a very difficult time for Mr H and he had to consider what would have 
been the best outcome for him and his family. But the important thing to note is that there 
has been a choice in the matter. Mr H chose to accept the settlement agreement and Im 
also mindful that he was taking advice from a solicitor at the time. So, overall, I dont think 
Assurant General have acted unfairly by declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman