DRN-3514493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold holiday and timeshare products when they 
were on holiday in Tenerife. Because Mr P used his credit card, issued by National 
Westminster Bank Plc, to pay part of the purchase price, he says that he has a claim against 
it in the same way as he has a claim against the seller. 
Mr P has been represented by a claims management business, so where I refer to his 
submissions, I include those made on his behalf.       
What happened
In November 2014 Mr and Mrs P were on holiday in Tenerife. They say that they were 
approached by someone with a scratch card, who told them they had won champagne and a 
free holiday. They were invited to a presentation, where they would collect their prize. 
The presentation lasted several hours. Mr and Mrs P say they were reluctant to make a 
purchase and they had no means of payment. The selling company however took Mr P back 
to their apartment so he could collect his credit card. 
At the end of the presentation Mr and Mrs P entered into an Accommodation Agreement 
with Agentes Canarios SL, a Spanish company. Under the agreement Mr and Mrs P bought 
one weeks accommodation in the Hotel Flamingo and a further four weeks accommodation 
in one or more of the establishments run by A Vacation in the Sun. The holidays had to be 
used within 12 months of the contract date  that is, by no later than 16 November 2015. Mr 
and Mrs P paid €4,100 using Mr Ps credit card. 
Mr and Mrs P returned to Tenerife in August 2015, where they attended a further 
presentation. This time, they bought a timeshare interest and membership of the Grand 
Holidays Club at Atlantic Gardens, Lanzarote, for €7,000, along with a subscription to 
Interval International, a timeshare exchange organisation. These arrangements meant that 
they had the use of identified accommodation for a fixed week, although they could 
exchange it. I understand that was their plan, since Mr and Mrs P wanted to stay at the Hotel 
Flamingo, rather than at Atlantic Gardens. The agreement was with Fuerteventura Life SL, a 
Spanish company.      
At the same time, Mr and Mrs P paid €2,000 for a two-week holiday for two with A Vacation 
in the Sun. The invoice was issued by Agentes Canarios SL.  
In April 2016 Mr and Mrs P were told that there had been an administrative error, which 
meant they had been allocated the wrong timeshare week. They agreed to the change, and 
a new contract was issued, this time in the name of Canarias Costa y Sol SLU.    
Mr and Mrs P have explained the difficulties they have had since then. They say they have 
been unable to book the holidays they were told they could book or otherwise benefit from 
the timeshare purchase in the way they expected. They contacted NatWest in or about 
March 2021 to say that they believed that they had been misled and that there had been a 
breach or breaches of contract. Because they paid using Mr Ps credit card, they said that 
NatWest was responsible, along with the seller. 
NatWest considered what Mr and Mrs P had said, but did not agree that it was responsible. 
It said that the card payment had been made to AC Flamingo, not the seller, and so the 
necessary links were not in place to make it, as the card issuer, responsible. And it said that 
any claim had arisen more than six years previously and so had been made outside the 
relevant limitation period. 
Mr and Mrs P did not agree. They said that the relevant time limit started when they became 
aware they had cause for complaint. That was not until 2016, so the claim had been made in 
time.
Mr and Mrs P referred the matter to this service. Our investigator however broadly agreed 
with bank that any claim would be outside the relevant time limit and so did not recommend 
that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
I did that and issued a provisional decision, inviting the parties to make further submissions if 
they wanted to do so. In my provisional decision, I said:
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a creditor. Section 75(1) says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12 includes:
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement being

(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier

And section 11(1) includes:
 (1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier ) other than the 
creditor

The arrangements under which suppliers are able to take credit card payments can be pre-
existing arrangements within the meaning of section 12(1)(b). Even though there is 
generally no direct arrangement between the supplier and the card issuer, the link provided 
by the card scheme (in this case, Mastercard) is in many cases sufficient. That will not 
always be the case, however. In this case, the credit card payment financed the November 2014 contract with Agentes 
Canarios SL.  
NatWest has noted that the payee named on Mr Ps credit card statement was not the 
supplier, Agentes Canarios SL; it was AC Flamingo. It follows that the payment was not 
made under pre-existing arrangements with the supplier, but under arrangements with a 
different company. The bank says that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act does not 
therefore apply. 
Section 75 can however apply where a transaction is financed under arrangements between 
the creditor and an associate of the supplier. Under section 184 a company is an associate 
of another if, in very broad terms, they come under the same control. 
I have not been provided with any information about the ownership or control of either  
Agentes Canarios SL or AC Flamingo (which I assume in any event is a trading name). I am 
not therefore currently persuaded that they are associates or that section 75 could apply 
here. It is possible however that further evidence will show a link, so I have considered what 
the position might be if it does.
As I have indicated, however, the credit card payment financed only the November 2014 
contract. It did not finance the August 2015 timeshare purchase or the 2016 changes to that 
agreement. I have considered therefore only Mr Ps claims in respect of the 2014 purchase.   
Breach of contract and misrepresentation
A claim for breach of contract arises where one party to a contract does not do what they 
have agreed to do, and the other party suffers loss as a result. 
As a matter of English law, a misrepresentation is, broadly speaking, a statement of fact or 
law made by one party to a contract, which (i) is untrue and (ii) induces the other into the 
contract.
The contract here was expressly governed by Spanish law, but I have approached this 
provisional decision on the assumption that Spanish law is not materially different from 
English law, at least insofar as it relates to Mr Ps complaint. The parties can tell me in their 
response to this provisional decision if they believe there are material differences. Section 
75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act applies to overseas contracts.  
Mr Ps allegations in this case appear primarily to relate to events connected with the 
purchase of the timeshare unit in August 2015. But NatWest did not finance that purchase. I 
will therefore discuss in detail only the November 2014 contract.   
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on contract (which 
includes claims for misrepresentation) cannot generally be brought after six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued. 
Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs P into the November 2014 contract 
were made on or before 16 November 2014. They did not however raise any complaint with 
NatWest until around March 2021, just over six years later. I think it very likely therefore that 
a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit 
in the Limitation Act. 
Mr P says that the relevant time limit runs from the date on which he knew he had cause for 
complaint. That is true of the time limits which apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
His complaint about NatWest  that it wrongly declined his claim under section 75  was therefore referred to this service in time. But any claim in misrepresentation against Agentes 
Canarios SL was already out of time by the time it was referred to the bank. And a creditor 
against which a section 75 claim is made can generally rely on any defence which would 
have been available to the supplier. That includes a limitation defence. 
Again, I have approached this issue on the assumption that limitation periods under Spanish 
law are the same as they are under English law, but the parties can tell me if they are 
different. 
The time limit for bringing a claim for breach of contract is also six years from the date on 
which a cause of action arose. The cause of action arises however on the date of the breach 
 which will very often be after the date of the contract. 
Mr P has not alleged any breach of the November 2014 contract. As I have indicated, he and 
Mrs P bought a weeks accommodation at the Hotel Flamingo and four further weeks in 
accommodation to be arranged. It appears however that they only used the first week  in 
August 2015, when they bought the timeshare unit. They have not explained however why 
they did not use the remaining weeks within 12 months of signing the contract. It has not 
been suggested however that Agentes Canarios SL refused to provide those weeks or that 
Mr and Mrs P tried to book them. I will however consider any further evidence on this matter 
before I issue my final decision. 
Conclusions 
It is not for me to say whether Mr P has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation or whether in turn he has a claim against NatWest under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Nor is it for me to say if any such claims would now be time-barred 
under the Limitation Act. They are however matters which I must take into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My current view however is:
I am not currently persuaded that the necessary arrangements existed to give rise to a 
claim against NatWest under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 75 can only apply, if at all, to the November 2014 contract. 
Any claim for misrepresentation in connection with that contract is likely to be out of time 
under the Limitation Act. 
Mr P has not raised a claim for breach of the November 2014 contract. 
It follows that the banks response to the claim under section 75 was reasonable.    
Neither party provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. I therefore have no more information about:
any link between Agentes Canarios SL and AC Flamingo;
Spanish law and limitation periods; or
why Mr and Mrs P didnt use the additional weeks they had paid for under the 2014 
contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In the circumstances, there is no reason in my view for me to reach a different conclusion 
from that set out in my provisional decision. Having reviewed the case in full, I remain of the 
view that NatWests response to the claims made was reasonable. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman