DRN-4186652
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A contacted UKI to make a claim for damage to her garden wall following a vehicle 
recovery truck hitting her neighbours wall. UKI offered £3,131.88 to cover the cost of her 
front wall and a 50% contribution to the party wall. Mrs A rejected the offer. UKI then 
reduced the settlement offer to £1,450.30. When Mrs A complained, UKI said it had made a 
fair offer.
So, Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there 
was clear evidence of the recovery vehicle hitting the wall. UKI hadnt shown that the pre-
existing condition of the wall affected the extent of the damage when the recovery vehicle hit 
the wall. He said UKI should settle the claim at the cost to Mrs A for replacing her front 
garden wall and a 50% contribution for the party wall.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
UKI has said the damage to Mrs As wall wouldnt have happened had it not been for the 
pre-existing condition of the wall, which it said was already leaning.
Ive looked at the video footage of the recovery vehicle, which was towing a large vehicle, 
hitting the neighbours wall. Im aware this was at slow speed but, in my view, the weight of 
the vehicles was likely to have been considerable. The policy said it covered damaged 
caused by the building being hit by a vehicle. UKI also seemed to accept the wall suffered 
damage as a result of it being hit by a vehicle and made two offers to cash settle the claim.
I dont think UKI has provided evidence to show the extent of the damage to Mrs As wall 
was the result of its pre-existing condition. Based on what Ive seen, I think its reasonable to 
say that the recovery vehicle striking the wall was the cause of the damage. So, I think UKI 
needs to settle the claim.
Mrs A has said she would like UKI to pay for her front wall, contribute to the party wall and 
also pay for another wall to be rebuilt, which would no longer match. I think UKI should pay 
for the front wall and 50% towards the party wall. But the policy didnt cover loss of match 
with undamaged items. So, I dont think UKI needs to pay anything towards the other wall.
UKI offered a cash settlement for the damage. It then reduced the amount it was willing to 
pay. Both of the offers were considerably less than Mrs As quote for the work. UKI has said 
Mrs A wanted the neighbours contractor to do all of the work. UKIs own contractor also 
declined to do the work, as it didnt think it could work on a wall that was also being worked 
on by another contractor. So, I think both Mrs A and UKI thought the same contractor should 
do all of the work.
As UKIs contractor declined to do the work, I think its reasonable for UKI to settle the claim 
at the cost to Mrs A, so that she can have the work carried out. It must do this on the basis of 
a quote or invoice provided by Mrs A to have the work carried out to rebuild her front wall 
and to cover 50% of the cost of the party wall.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mrs As the cost to her to rebuild her front wall and 50% of the cost of the 
party wall.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require U 
K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A the cost to rebuild her front wall and 50% of the cost of the 
party wall. This should be at the cost to Mrs A for this work being carried out, subject to her 
providing suitable evidence of these costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman