DRN-2899175
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) assigned 
payments they made towards their mortgage.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and 
have taken place over a number of years.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr R and Mrs R had intended for a monthly direct debit payment to only be credited to a 
particular sub account. But The Co-op split the payment across that account as well as two 
other accounts. The Co-op accept that they made a mistake in doing so. 
Mr R and Mrs R feel that theyve lost out financially because of interest charged and that 
their overpayments (which they say total around £5,000) havent properly been credited to 
their accounts and the remedy offered by The Co-op doesnt put them back in the position 
they should now be in had the error not happened.
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. He found 
that although The Co-op had made a mistake, by adjusting sub account 1 and 2 by 
£1,110.66 in total, Mr R and Mrs R had been put back in the position they wouldve been had 
The Co-ops mistake not happened. 
He also found that the offer of £150 for any trouble and upset caused was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr R and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view. The complaint has now been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
I appreciate that Mr R and Mrs R have gone to a lot of effort to support the arguments 
theyve made. But as an alternative dispute resolution service, its not the role of our service 
to forensically examine years of accounts or records. 
Having carefully reviewed all of the available evidence, I have to tell Mr R and Mrs R that 
I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold their complaint in 
this matter. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that The Co-op made a mistake. This was confirmed in their final response 
letter dated 29 January 2020:
At the time, you requested your Direct Debit (DD) to be set up to pay to
sub account 4 only and for any overpayments to be applied to sub account 1 and 2 
but are concerned this wasnt the case..
It appears that due to an administration error, whilst your DD was set up to collect 
the Monthly Mortgage Payment (MMP) for sub account 4, once received, this was 
split across sub accounts 1,2 and 4, as opposed to just sub account 4.
As a result of this, your overpayments were applied across all accounts and not just 
sub account 1 and 2 as you wished.
Ive to decide if Mr R and Mrs R lost out because of that error. The Co-op accept that they 
have taken steps to put things right by reconstructing Mr R and Mrs Rs accounts to reflect 
what their position would be if the error hadnt happened. Our service also asked The Co-op 
for a detailed breakdown of the calculation and methodology behind the remedy they used to 
reconstruct the accounts which has been provided and a copy shared with Mr R and Mrs R.
Mr R and Mrs R strongly disagree and have provided detailed responses to explain what 
they feel needs to happen to put things right here. They have argued (in summary) that their 
total overpayment was around £5,000, sub account 1 and sub account 2 should finish earlier 
given this overpayment and that theyll be charged around £3,000 extra interest across the 
loan terms. 
Mr R and Mrs R had an opportunity to provide further supporting evidence of the 
approximate £3,000 overcharge - but havent provided any strong supporting evidence. Ive 
considered their accountants opinion dated 16 March 2021. But Im not persuaded it 
provides strong, evidence backed support for their argument to the extent that it undermines 
the breakdown provided by The Co-op.
Having very carefully considered all of the evidence, on balance, Im reasonably satisfied 
that the Co-op have reconstructed the accounts to put Mr R and Mrs R back in the position 
they wouldve been had the error not occurred. 
I dont find that The Co-op have treated Mr R and Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably when 
trying to rectify the mistake. I also find that £150 is fair, reasonable and proportionate to any 
trouble or upset this error may have caused. 
I know Mr R and Mrs R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve their dispute with The Co-op  can do for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman