DRN-2810547
The complaint
Mr B complains about Zenith Insurance plc and how it dealt with a claim under his mobile 
phone insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr B has mobile phone insurance with Zenith and my references to Zenith include its agents 
appointed to handle claims. 
In January 2020 Mr B made a claim under his policy to repair damage to the screen and 
back of his mobile phone. Zenith accepted the claim and following the payment of the 
excess, it went on to repair the damage to his mobile phone. 
A few months later Mr B says he started to experience some problems with the screen on 
his mobile, so Zenith asked Mr B to provide some photos of his mobile phone concerning the 
issue he was experiencing.  Mr B provided the photos and Zenith set up a warranty return for 
him, but he didnt contact Zenith to go through with the warranty claim so it was closed in 
September 2020.
Later that month Mr B contacted Zenith again and complained that his mobile phone battery 
had been changed for a third party one during the original repair without notifying him. He 
also said replacing the battery had nothing to do with the original repair. Mr B told us the 
replacement third party battery was faulty, he had to take the phone to the manufacturer who 
had to replace the battery to get his phone working again. 
Zenith responded to Mr B but didnt uphold the complaint because it felt it had followed the 
right procedure to replace the battery as it wasnt working to the capacity it should and felt it 
could use third party parts in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr B remained 
unhappy so referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator initially thought Zenith acted fairly and reasonably but after further 
investigation she decided Zenith could have handled the claim better especially by informing 
Mr B of the battery change so she upheld the complaint. 
Zenith disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Mr B should have 
contacted it to inspect the mobile phone rather than take it to the manufacturer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont think Zenith were unreasonable in the way it handled the actual repair of Mr Bs 
mobile phone and I dont dispute that the original battery may not have been working to 
optimum capacity, so I think it did the right thing in replacing the original according to the 
data it relied on. I also dont think Zenith did anything wrong in replacing the battery for a 
third-party battery, as the terms clearly say it can do so. 
Zenith have said Mr B should have informed it of the issues with the battery alongside the 
issues hed raised about the screen after the repair. Zenith said had Mr B done so, it would 
have been able to address this issue under the warranty without additional cost to Mr B. But 
from the information provided Mr B wasnt aware of the issue with the battery at that time, so 
I dont think it was possible for him to raise this alongside the screen issue. Zenith also says 
Mr B chose to take his mobile phone to the manufacturer for repair and not submit a claim 
through his policy or return it for a warranty claim. 
Mr B has told us that the battery was faulty and so he decided to take it to the manufacturer. 
Whilst I appreciate, he could have made a further claim its likely this would have incurred 
further excess charges for him and at this point, he wasnt aware his battery had been 
replaced during the initial repair. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of him not to make a 
further claim. 
In regard to Mr B making a claim on the warranty against the initial claim, it wasnt 
unreasonable for him to have assumed that the issue with the battery was unrelated to the 
initial mobile phone repair, unlike some of the screen issues he was experiencing. Mr B 
wasnt told by Zenith that the battery had been replaced so its unlikely that his first thought 
would have been to contact Zenith. I think Mr B took reasonable steps to find out what the 
issue with the battery was and contacting the manufacturer was practical in the situation.
Im persuaded that once the manufacturer had assessed the phone and confirmed an issue 
with the battery, the battery would have needed to be replaced. Had Mr B been told that the 
battery was replaced during the initial repair I think he most likely would have contacted 
Zenith about the battery problems. And its also likely that Zenith would have replaced the 
battery without further cost to Mr B. 
Taking everything into account I conclude its unfair for Mr B to incur the cost of the 
replacement battery through no fault of his own. In the circumstances I think a fair outcome 
would be for Zenith to reimburse Mr B for the cost of the battery being replaced. The 
settlement should also include a payment of 8% interest from the date Mr B made the 
payment to the manufacturer
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Zenith Insurance plc to:
pay Mr B £69 for the cost of the replacement battery plus 8% simple interest* from 
the date of the payment to the manufacturer
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zenith Insurance plc to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman