DRN-2778354
The complaint
Miss T complaints about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase 
agreement financed by Advantage Finance Limited. 
  
What happened
In June 2020 Miss T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. The car was 
seven years old and had a mileage of around 89,000 miles. Miss T says that delivery of the 
vehicle was delayed because the dealership was fixing a fault with a sensor. When the car 
was delivered the tyre pressure management (TPM) light was on and Miss T says the 
dealership told her theyd fix this, but they havent. 
Miss T contacted Advantage in December 2020 to complain about the car, and says she 
was told to contact the dealership to arrange for repairs. 
The car failed an MOT in January 2021 due to the TPM light being illuminated, and Miss T 
asked Advantage to reject the car. 
Advantage sent Miss T its final response in January 2021, they told her that because she 
knew about the fault at the time of supply, they were unable to support rejection of the 
vehicle. They told her that the dealership was willing to undertake or pay for the repairs and 
suggested that she contact them. 
Unhappy with this, Miss T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss T and thought that she should be able to reject the car, because there was a 
fault that hadnt been repaired in a reasonable timeframe. 
Advantage disagreed with our investigator, they say that Miss T was aware of the fault at the 
point of supply, and an agreement was made between the dealership and Miss T that this 
would be repaired, so she is not able to reject the vehicle. There is a vehicle inspection 
report which states that the issue is minor, and so there is no supporting evidence that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021 recommending that it was upheld. I made 
the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Advantage as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £10,000. It was seven years old 
and had travelled 89,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used car like 
Miss Ts, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new or 
younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is 
reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn.
Ive seen the invoice provided to Miss T on which its written that the TPM light is on, and the 
dealership will pay to fix this. So, Im satisfied that the fault with the TPM light was there at 
the time the vehicle was supplied. 
The vehicle underwent an MOT in January 2021, which it failed because the TPM light was 
on. The vehicle isnt roadworthy without a valid MOT, so the TPM light must be repaired 
before Miss T would be able to drive the car. 
There has been an inspection of Miss Ts car, in which the engineer says that the TPM light 
being on is a minor issue and doesnt impact on the vehicles overall condition. I think a 
reasonable person would expect a minor issue to not produce an MOT failure, and on this 
basis, Im satisfied that the fault with the TPM light means that the car is not of satisfactory 
quality and, as it was present at delivery, that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Advantage should do to put 
things right. Our investigator has recommended that Miss T is able to reject the vehicle. 
Advantage say that the dealer has agreed to repair the fault, so the car cannot be rejected, 
and as Miss T was aware of the fault, shes not entitled to a remedy under the CRA.  
I accept that the fault was brought to Miss Ts attention prior to the supply of the vehicle. The 
CRA says that anything which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the 
contract is made isnt subject to the term that the quality of goods is satisfactory. However, 
there was an understanding that there was a fault with the vehicle, and that this would be 
repaired. Miss T didnt enter the contract with the knowledge that the vehicle had a fault and 
she would purchase it regardless. So, I find this prior knowledge doesnt prevent Miss T from 
receiving a remedy under the CRA. 
The CRA sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not to be of 
satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the goods. 
That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer.  
The car was delivered to Miss T with the understanding that the dealership would rectify the 
fault. Ive seen evidence that Miss T has contacted the dealership on a number of occasions, 
and the repair hasnt been carried out. Miss T says shes taken the vehicle to a number of 
garages and theyve been unable to complete the repair. I havent seen any evidence that 
says why this is a particularly difficult repair to complete. But, as Miss T was told by the 
dealership that they would pay for the repair, I think she would have completed this as soon 
as possible if she was able to, and certainly once the car had failed its MOT and she was no 
longer able to drive it. Miss T has not had use of her vehicle since January 2021. Based on the evidence, it seems 
likely that a repair could be difficult, and its not clear if a repair will be successful, will be 
long lasting, or how long it will take to complete. So, its likely Miss T will be put to significant 
inconvenience, in addition to that which shes already experienced, in arranging a repair. It 
would also mean that Miss T has to wait for an unknown period of time before shes able to 
drive her car again. 
All things considered, I dont think Miss T should have to accept repair of the vehicle and 
should be allowed her final right to reject the car. This would mean the car is collected from 
Miss T, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and Miss T has her deposit refunded 
(plus interest).
Miss T has been unable to drive the car at all since January 2021 and hasnt had use of any 
replacement or courtesy car in the interim. So, I think its fair that Advantage refund 100% of 
her monthly payments relating to use of the car from the date of the failed MOT, 11 January 
2021. 
Miss T has continued to tax and insure the vehicle and has not had the benefit of these. Ive 
seen evidence that Miss T is paying tax and insurance on a replacement vehicle. So, I think 
its fair that Advantage reimburse her for the cost of the tax and insurance on the vehicle she 
cant use from the date of the failed MOT, minus any refund she might receive for these. 
Miss T has been put to distress and inconvenience in trying to arrange for repairs with the 
dealership, trying to arrange repairs herself, and in having to find alternative transport for her 
work. I think Advantage should pay her £150 in compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Miss T responded to my provisional decision to say that her car insurance renewal is due on 
10 May 2021, which will incur a further cost. 
Advantage responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any new information that changes my mind about this matter. Having 
carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Advantage should refund Miss T for the 
insurance costs on the vehicle they supplied from 11 January 2021 to the date of settlement. 
If this includes a requirement to renew the insurance, this should be included in the 
settlement calculation. 
  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Advantage Finance Limited to:End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Miss T
Refund Miss Ts deposit of £2,000 
Refund 100% of Miss Ts monthly rental payments from 11 January 2021
Refund Miss Ts tax and insurance costs on this vehicle from 11 January 2021 until 
the date of settlement, minus any refund that Miss T receives for these. 
Pay Miss T £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the finance agreement from Miss Ts credit file. 
Advantage should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman