DRN-4407959
The complaint
Miss E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Miss E says shes fallen victim to a romance scam. She paid the scammer £12,430 over 
eight transactions instructed between 8 July and 17 August 2021 to the same beneficiary. 
The transactions amounts are set out in the table below.
Date of payment Amount of payment
8 July 2021 £1,000
16 July 2021 £600
19 July 2021 £690
26 July 2021 £2,440
29 July 2021 £2,260
3 August 2021 £1,970
6 August 2021 £2,380
17 August 2021 £1,090
Miss E has explained that:
She met the scammer on a popular dating app in February 2021. She primarily 
communicated with him via text message, but she isnt able to provide any of those 
messages now.
The scammer asked her to pay money into his friends account, due to restrictions on 
his own account. The first time he asked her for money, it was to enable him to place 
a football bet. Then he began asking her for money to buy tools and safety 
equipment to help him tackle Turkish wildfires.
She had no reason to think she was being scammed. Shed been friends with the 
scammer for a long time before he began asking her for money, and the reasons he 
gave for needing money made sense.
Lloyds intervened on 30 August 2021 when Miss E attempted to send a further £4,000 to the 
scammer via a new receiving account, and the scam was brought to a halt.
Miss E would like Lloyds to reimburse her financial loss under the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). She says that:
Her divorce was finalised shortly after she met the scammer. It was a traumatic time 
for her, and she was vulnerable to anyone seeking to make new connections with 
her. 
The disputed transactions were out of character and Lloyds shouldve intervened to 
prevent the scam.
Lloyds declined to reimburse Miss E under the CRM Code, and it was unable to recover any 
of her funds from the receiving account.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds reimburse 50% of Miss Es financial loss. She 
didnt think that Lloyds had provided Miss E with an effective warning/s to protect her from 
the scam, but she didnt think that Miss E had a reasonable basis for belief in making the 
payments either.
Miss E didnt accept our investigators recommendation. She said that:
By the time she sent the scammer money, she had been speaking to him for a long 
time  she didnt just send money to a person she didnt know.
She believed the scammer when he said he was having issues with his bank 
account, so she needed to send him money via his friend.
The disputed transactions were out of character.
She stopped making payments to the scammer as soon as Lloyds intervened, and 
she wouldnt have lost any money to the scam if Lloyds had intervened sooner.
Miss Es complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 13 September 2023. Ill set out my findings below.
Lloyds has signed up to the CRM Code, and it was in force when the scam payments were 
made.
In summary, the CRM Code says that a customer who was vulnerable when they made an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) as part of a scam should receive a full refund of that 
payment, regardless of whether the firm knew about the customers vulnerability before the 
scam took place. The CRM Code states that:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Miss E has said that her divorce finalised shortly after she met the scammer, and before she 
made the scam payments. It was a traumatic time for her  she was stressed, and her 
mental state was poor  and she was vulnerable to anyone seeking to make new 
connections with her. Miss E has my sympathies. I dont doubt that she was going through a 
difficult time. But Im not persuaded that the circumstances shes described rendered her 
unable to protect herself from a romance scam, or that she cant reasonably have been 
expected to protect herself from the scam because of her vulnerability. 
Nevertheless, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams, like the one Miss E has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Lloyds has argued that one of the exceptions applies in this case. It says that 
Miss E made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the 
person she was expecting to pay, the payments were for genuine goods or services and/or 
the business or person she was transacting with was legitimate.
In thinking about whether Miss E had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what 
steps she took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transactions, and whether it 
was reasonable for her to proceed with the payments.Ive noted that Miss E did not meet the scammer in person, and shes said that her attempt 
to have video communication with the scammer was unsuccessful. She has not been able to 
provide any evidence that she built up a relationship with the scammer over several months 
before he began asking her for money as shes said or provide copies of any communication 
she had with the scammer. So, I cant reasonably conclude that it was reasonable for her to 
proceed with the payments on the basis of a trusting relationship built up over time with a 
known individual.
In addition, considering Miss Es testimony, I think there were some red flags she ought to 
have picked up on. For example, I think it ought to have caused her some concern that the 
scammers account was apparently continuously blocked, so she needed to pass payments 
to him through his friends account. If the account was continuously blocked as the scammer 
claimed, I would question how he was receiving Miss Es money from his friend and using it 
to fund the goods and services it was intended for. 
The payment amounts were not insignificant considering the stated purpose - £1,000 for a 
football bet and £11,430 to buy tools and safety equipment. I dont consider that the story the 
scammer gave Miss E about needing to buy his own tools and safety equipment at a cost of 
£11,430 to battle Turkish wildfires was plausible, even considering Miss Es testimony that 
the media was reporting on the incident at the time. I have to question why Miss E didnt test 
the scammers story before agreeing to send him large amounts of money, or question why 
he needed to place the relevant bet.
Overall, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Miss E had a reasonable basis for belief 
on this occasion. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds should have reimbursed Miss Es loss 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Ive seen the warning that Lloyds gave Miss E when she instructed the first scam payment, 
and I think it couldve been better. But I wouldnt have expected the bank to have identified 
an APP scam risk with any of the scam payments, so it wasnt required to provide Miss E 
with an effective warning under the CRM Code.
I appreciate that the scam payments were some of the highest value payments out of Miss 
Es account in the months leading up to the scam, and they went to a new payee. But I dont 
think they should have stood out to Lloyds as particularly unusual or suspicious. I wouldnt 
consider any of the scam payments to be high value enough for them to have caused the 
bank some concern on that basis alone. In June 2021, Miss E made a genuine faster 
payment for £1,135. The payment went to a known payee, but it was higher in value than the 
first scam payment  and it isnt unusual for account holders to transact with new payees on 
occasion. By the time the scam payments began to increase in value on 26 July 2021, Miss 
E was transacting with a known payee shed developed a pattern of making regular 
payments to. None of the scam payments drained Miss Es account, and they werent made 
in quick succession as might be expected in cases of fraud. It wasnt unusual for Miss E to 
fund outgoing payments by moving savings into her account.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to consider there was no apparent APP scam 
risk here. So, Im not persuaded that the bank needed to provide Miss E with an effective 
warning/s and I dont think it ought to make a difference to the outcome of this case that the 
warning Lloyds did provide fell short of being an effective warning.
I havent identified any other reason why Lloyds ought to have contacted Miss E about the 
scam payments she instructed before processing them. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
needs to reimburse Miss Es financial loss.Finally, Ive seen evidence which satisfies me that none of Miss Es funds remained in the 
beneficiary account for recovery by the time she reported the scam to Lloyds.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision.
In summary, and in relation to her vulnerability and basis for belief, Miss E said:
The difficult circumstances she was going through at the time made her vulnerable to 
a romance scam, and this should at least be taken into account when considering her 
reasonable basis for belief.
She met the scammer on one occasion and had a few video calls with him.
It isnt fair to take her inability to provide copies of any communication she had with 
the scammer into account because the messages they exchanged were 
automatically deleted when she reported and blocked him as she was advised to do. 
There is no reason to doubt her recollection of events and she has been very 
forthcoming with information when requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that it would not be fair or reasonable for me to instruct 
Lloyds to reimburse Miss Es financial loss.
I would like to assure Miss E that I took her circumstances into account when reaching my 
provisional decision. She hasnt provided any new information in relation to her 
circumstances at the time she was scammed that I havent already considered. Im still not 
persuaded that she cant reasonably have been expected to protect herself from the scam 
and, although I accept that she may have been unusually open to anyone seeking to make 
new connections with her, Im still not persuaded that it would be reasonable to conclude 
that she had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion for all the reasons I have already 
set out. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I have not seen any evidence in support of Miss 
Es testimony that she built up a relationship with the scammer over several months before 
he began asking her for money. Similarly, I have not been provided with any supporting 
evidence that she met the scammer in person or had successful video calls with him. But my 
findings in relation to Miss Es basis for belief do not turn on this. In thinking about whether 
Miss E had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what steps she took to reassure 
herself about the legitimacy of the transactions, and whether it was reasonable for her to 
proceed with the payments. In summary:
I think there were red flags that Miss E ought to have picked up on  such as the 
scammers account being apparently continuously blocked.
I dont think the story the scammer gave Miss E about needing £1,000 to place a 
football bet and £11,430 to buy his own tools and safety equipment to battle Turkish 
wildfires was plausible.
Miss E doesnt appear to have tested the scammers story before agreeing to send 
him large amounts of money.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman