DRN-3874802
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) handled his request 
for a chargeback and his claim for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in relation to his purchase of an outdoor garden set.
What happened
On 5 May 2022 Mr B paid nearly £530 for an outdoor garden set, which was intended for a 
birthday present. He paid for it with his first direct credit card. But when it was delivered it 
was incomplete. So he cancelled the order, and the merchant agreed to refund him and 
collect the delivered goods. This took longer to arrange than expected, so Mr B asked first 
direct to refund him.
First direct did not raise a chargeback right away, because under the chargeback rules it had 
to wait a while to give the merchant an opportunity to refund Mr B. Part of Mr Bs complaint is 
that first direct gave conflicting advice about when a chargeback could be raised. First he 
was told he had to wait 15 days from the date of the transaction, and later he was told it was 
15 days from the date the merchant agreed he could return the goods (which happened on 
26 May). He also says he was told it was 15 days from the last correspondence he received 
from the merchant; in first directs final response letter it apologised to him for this error.
Mr B also complains that first direct did not treat his request for a refund as a claim against it 
under section 75. First direct says that it would always raise a chargeback first, and would 
not consider a section 75 claim unless the chargeback was unsuccessful. Doing both at the 
same time can result in problems.
The merchant refunded Mr B on 4 July. First direct argues that this renders Mr Bs second 
complaint point moot.
Being dissatisfied with first directs final response, Mr B brought this complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered it, and decided not to uphold it. He said that as Mr B had 
got his money back, a chargeback had not been necessary. He said that first direct had not 
been obliged to refund Mr B under section 75 at the same time as or before raising a 
chargeback. He did not think that first direct had made any significant error which had 
caused Mr B any real detriment; the different information given about chargeback timescales 
had been the result of the applicable chargeback reason changing, and Mr B had not been 
materially disadvantaged by it.
Mr B did not agree. He said that as a result of the conflicting information given to him about 
timescales, he had spent an unnecessary amount of extra time on the phone with first direct 
trying to get to the bottom of it. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, there was no need for first direct to proceed by way of both chargeback and section 
75 simultaneously. Doing a chargeback first, followed by considering a claim under section 
75 only if a chargeback is unsuccessful, is best practice. Doing both at once can cause 
problems (such as double recovery). Doing one at a time does not prejudice the cardholders 
statutory rights, since the chargeback process is quicker than bringing court proceedings. So 
if the chargeback is unsuccessful, the card issuer can still move on to consider its liability 
under section 75 earlier than a court would consider that issue if the cardholder just issued 
proceedings.
Secondly, most of the advice given about the chargeback timescales was correct. When 
Mr B first asked for a chargeback on 30 May, the waiting period before a chargeback could 
be raised was 15 calendar days from 26 May (the date on which the merchant agreed he 
could return the goods and be refunded). That waiting time had not yet expired. By the time 
he next called, on 22 June, the merchant had agreed to collect the goods on 8 June, and so 
the new waiting period was now 15 days from 8 June, which had not yet expired. So Mr B 
was given different advice because the circumstances had changed. The incorrect advice he 
was given was when he was told that the waiting period was 15 days from the date of the 
transaction, which is sometimes a valid calculation of the waiting period but was wrong in 
Mr Bs case. But I think that an apology is sufficient for that. This error did not result in 
delaying Mr Bs refund, which happened on 4 July. If a chargeback had been raised on 23 
June (as it should have been), then it is unlikely that it would have been resolved earlier than 
4 July, which was only eleven days later. I dont think it makes any difference whether the 
refund was the result of a chargeback or of the merchants voluntary payment.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about having spent time on the phone to first direct, but 
I dont think all, or most, of that time was taken up because of that error. I dont think the 
level of inconvenience reaches the level where financial compensation is necessary. He has 
got his money back, and received an apology, and I think that is enough.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman