DRN-3053605
The complaint
Mr T closed a fixed term deposit account hed held with Metro Bank PLC, and he asked it to 
write to him with the key details from that account. But he said Metro wasnt able to put this 
in one letter for him. Mr T also said Metros service was poor.
What happened
Mr T said that he wanted Metro to set out, on one letter, the dates that he opened and 
closed his fixed term deposit account, and the interest earned on it. But he told us that Metro 
said it couldnt do that all on one letter. It could provide two letters, one with the dates of 
opening and closing, and one with the interest earned. 
Mr T said this was a simple request, and he wanted us to look into this for him. He said that 
he wanted compensation of £150, to make up for what Metro had done, and the poor service 
it had provided.
Metro said Mr T had opened an 18 month Fixed Term Deposit (FTD) account on 14 March 
2018. He applied online. Metro has explained that interest for accounts like these isnt paid 
into the FTD account itself, it has to be paid into another Metro account. So Mr Ts interest 
from the FTD was paid every month into a separate savings account he held with Metro. 
Mr T rolled the FTD account over in September 2019 for a further 18 months. That fixed term 
ended on 14 March 2021. Mr T closed the account and transferred his money elsewhere. 
Metro said that when Mr T called, because the tax year hadnt yet ended, it couldnt supply a 
certificate for the interest earned from this investment. It would send a tax statement once 
the tax year had ended. Mr T also asked for confirmation of the start and end date for the 
FTD. Metro said it could send this, and statements for the savings account which received 
the interest payments. But it couldnt provide one letter, with interest from the FTD and the 
opening and closing dates of his FTD account. 
Metro didnt think it had done anything wrong. And it said it had listened back to the calls it 
had with Mr T, it didnt think it had provided him with poor service.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that what Metro had 
said was in line with the terms of the account, as interest wasnt paid into the FTD account, it 
was paid into a separate account. Metro had offered to go through the statements for Mr Ts 
savings account, to show all the interest payments made. Or it could also send Mr T all the 
information he wanted, just not on one letter.
Our investigator said that Metro has its own processes, and its allowed to decide how its 
own business works. It had offered what Mr T wanted, just not on one piece of paper. Our 
investigator said using financial services wont always be totally hassle free, so the impact 
needs to be more than the frustration and minor annoyance that one might experience day 
to day. And he didnt think that the inconvenience Mr T might encounter from adding up the 
interest shown on his savings statements meant that Metro should pay compensation. 
Although he appreciated that Mr T had clarified his request on the phone, our investigator 
didnt think that Metros service was poor. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said his query was on interest on the FTD account, and covered the 
previous tax year too. But our investigator said that this account didnt ever have any interest 
added to it. And he said Mr T had only complained to Metro about this tax year. But Mr T 
said he still had to manually calculate interest on his account, which was cumbersome. And 
other banks had been able to do what he wanted, with no issues. Mr T wanted this complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr T says Metro should be able to provide a closing statement for his account. I think Metro 
has offered this, but the statement it has offered is for the FTD account. And its explained 
that the amount of money in that account never changes. So the statement wont show what 
Mr T wants. 
Mr T wants to know how much interest in total he earned from this investment. Metro has 
offered him two ways of generating that information. One is to look through the savings 
account that the interest was paid into, and add up the interest received. I can hear that 
Metros advisor offered to do this for Mr T. 
The other way to generate information on interest earned for the full 18 months that the 
account was open, is to add the amounts shown on each certificate of interest, produced at 
the end of the tax year, for this account. Mr Ts account was open from September 2019 to 
March 2021. He confirmed to Metro that he already received a certificate of interest for the 
2019 to 2020 tax year. Metro said it couldnt produce a certificate of interest for the FTD 
account for the 2020 to 2021 tax year at the point when Mr T closed his account. It could 
provide this once the tax year had ended, in April. 
I wouldnt expect Metro to be able to provide a certificate of interest before the end of the tax 
year. And I note that Mr T closed this account close to the end of the tax year. Metro said 
that the 2020 to 2021 tax year certificate would be available in April 2021, so this information 
would be available to him before too long.
I understand that Mr T would have found it more convenient to have all the information 
straight away, and on one piece of paper. But Metro has explained it couldnt do this. 
I dont think that this request is quite as simple and routine as Mr T suggested, because 
interest isnt paid into the FTD account. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Metro to say it couldnt provide Mr T with one letter which detailed the open and closing 
dates of Mr Ts FTD account, and details of all the interest that this investment had 
generated (which was paid into a different account). Because of this, I wont uphold that part 
of Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T also said that he felt hed received poor service from Metros staff. I know that Mr T 
feels that he had to correct agents on his calls, and I do think its unfortunate that Mr T 
wasnt able to get straight back in touch with the agent who rang to resolve his complaint. 
But Ive listened carefully to the calls that Mr T had with those agents, and I can hear that on the last call in particular, the agent apologised for the inconvenience, and took Mr Ts 
feedback on board. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ts 
complaint. I dont think that this is an issue that would also require a payment of 
compensation from Metro. Because Metro has already apologised to Mr T, I wont uphold 
this part of Mr Ts complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr T has made, but I dont think that its unfair or 
unreasonable for Metro to offer him the information he wants in the format that it is already 
able to provide. So I dont think that Metro needs to do any more. And, although I know Mr T 
will be disappointed, that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman