DRN-2377442
The complaint
Mr U complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy 
and refused to pay out on his claim.
What happened
On 19 August 2019, Mr U took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He chose to pay 
the premium through monthly instalments. 
On 26 August 2019, Mr U made a claim when his car was stolen. Admiral accepted the claim 
and valued the car at £1,465. But it noted Mr U still owed £2,189.25 for the remaining annual 
premium, so it tried to contact him to discuss the claim. Further attempts to contact him on 
28 August 2019, 1 September 2019, 12 September and 18 September were unsuccessful so 
on 30 September 2019, it closed the claim and cancelled the policy.
In January 2020, Mr U complained to Admiral about the outcome of the claim. He said the 
car was worth more than £1,465 because the sound system and DVD player cost £600. And 
he said there was a watch worth £2,500 in the car when it was stolen. He said there were 
delays and that he was unhappy the claim had been closed without notice. He also said he 
wanted compensation for the way Admirals handling of the claim had affected his mental 
health, and the fact hed been left unable to work.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint, maintaining that, as the value of the car and personal 
possessions was below the amount of the outstanding finance, the claim was unviable. It 
explained the sound system was included in the valuation, and the policy only provided £150 
cover for personal possessions. It didnt accept it had delayed the claim, pointing out Mr U 
had failed to respond to its calls and emails. And it didnt accept it had closed the claim and 
cancelled the policy without notice, explaining a notification of total loss cancellation letter 
was sent on 27 August 2019. It apologised for the effect its decision to close the claim had 
on Mr Us mental health, but it maintained it had tried to contact him without success and 
had no other option. 
Mr U wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. 
My provisional findings
I explained that, at the time of the claim, Mr U owed £2,189.25 under the finance agreement 
he entered into when he took out the policy to pay the annual premium. Admiral had said 
that, because the value of the claim was less than this amount, the claim wasnt viable. So, it 
refused to pay Mr U any money in settlement of the claim. 
I considered whether Admirals decision to pay the market value of the car was fair and I was 
satisfied that it was. Mr U had argued the car valuation failed to take account of the fact hed 
installed a stereo and sound system worth £600, but I noted there was no option for a 
manufacturer fitted stereo system in the trade guides, and I hadnt seen anything to show the 
stereo and sound system increased the cars market value. Hed also said there was a watch 
worth £2,500 in the car when it was stolen. But the policy stated we will pay up to £150 for 
personal belongings in your car, if they are damaged or stolen. So, I was satisfied Admirals 
decision not to exceed the policy limit in the settlement calculation was fair.
I didnt think it was unreasonable for Admiral to have cancelled the policy because it had 
tried to contact Mr U to discuss the claim, and he didnt respond. However, I thought its 
decision to pay the finance company direct instead of paying the money to Mr U was unfair. 
Admiral had argued the policy terms and conditions were clear that if the car is deemed a 
total loss and the premium is paid by monthly direct debit, any outstanding finance will be 
deducted from the settlement offer. But its contract with Mr U was separate to the 
agreement he had with the finance company and it wasnt for Admiral to go ahead and pay 
the settlement to the finance company. I explained the purpose of an insurance policy is to 
enable a consumer to replace the insured car with a car with the same age, model and 
mileage. But in using the settlement to reduce the finance used to pay the premium, Mr U 
was unable to do that, and I didnt think that was fair. 
I explained that, had Admiral paid the claim, Mr U would have been in a position to buy a 
replacement car, put it on the policy and continue to pay the premium. The policy would then 
have continued, and he could have paid the premium as normal. I was satisfied Mr U would 
have used the money from the settlement to buy a new car, but without the settlement he 
was unable to afford a new car. So, Mr U had been unfairly without a car since Admiral paid 
the money to the finance provider as opposed to Mr U. So, I did think he should be 
compensated for the loss of use of a car at our standard rate of £10 per day, from the date 
Admiral paid the money to the finance company, to the date it makes the payment.
Id also thought about whether Mr U should be compensated for delays to the claim. He 
made the claim on 26 August 2019 and Admiral contacted him to discuss the outcome on 28 
August 2019. After three further attempts to contact him, the claim was closed on 18 
September 2019. I didnt think this was an unreasonable timescale, and Admiral had 
explained it took reasonable steps to contact Mr U. So, I didnt agree there were 
unreasonable delays.
However, I said Admiral knew Mr U had a mental health condition for which he was taking 
medication. He had explained his mental health condition had worsened as a result of the 
way Admiral handled the claim and hed provided some evidence of a mental health 
diagnosis. I thought the outcome of the claim did cause Mr U unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience and this was exacerbated by the fact he suffered from a mental health 
condition. I considered this, and the impact Admirals poor handling of the claim has had on 
Mr U and I thought it should pay him £250 compensation.
Developments
Mr U has said that because he suffers with his mental health and lost his job as a result of 
having been unable to buy a car, he thinks the compensation should be between £1,000 and 
£2,000, but that he is happy with my findings.
Admiral has pointed out there was no finance agreement and that the arrangement had been 
for it to collect the premiums directly from Mr U. It maintains the claim was non-viable due to 
the outstanding premiums being more than value of car therefore it had cancelled the policy 
after having taken every reasonable step to contact Mr U (in light of his mental health 
issues). The car had been stolen and not recovered and there were no attempts to pursue 
Mr U for any outstanding costs despite the fact it had only received £94 towards the annual 
premium and the time on risk had been slightly more than that.It also clarified that it had responded to our investigators view. In that response it confirmed 
the policy terms and conditions clearly advised if the car is deemed a total loss and the 
premium is paid by monthly direct debit, any outstanding premium will be deducted from any 
offer made for the car. It explained this is industry standard an insurer would not pay a claim
then look to recover premium after the fact.
In its response, Admiral also set out the file handler had emailed Mr U after each voicemail 
left asking him to contact it to discuss the claim, but he didn't respond. The letter after the 
last voicemail on 18 September 2019 was sent via recorded delivery post and returned on 
14 October 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Us recent comments about the level of compensation hes entitled to, but 
Im satisfied the payment for loss of use and £250 compensation is fair and reasonable.
I note that Admiral did respond to our investigators view and I confirm I had taken all of its 
points raised in my provisional decision. I note Admiral has set out Mr U didnt enter into a 
finance agreement when he took out the policy but it was taken the direct debit payments 
from Mr U directly.
However, the fact there was no finance agreement doesnt make any material difference to 
my finding that, in not paying the market value to Mr U, Admiral prevented him from being 
able to replace the insured car with a car with the same age, model and mileage. And I still 
dont think that was fair. 
I do not dispute the terms and conditions of the insurance policy entitled Admiral to do this. 
But I still need to think whether this was a fair and reasonable thing to do  in particular 
consider whether the application of this term could put Mr U in an unfair situation. And I think 
it did. As I set out in my provisional decision.
I remain of the position that, had Admiral paid the claim, Mr U would have been in a position 
to buy a replacement car, put it on the policy and continue to pay the premium. The policy 
would then have continued, and he could have paid the premiums as normal. I remain 
satisfied that Mr U would have used the money from the settlement to buy a new car, but 
that, without the settlement, he was unable to do so. 
I maintain he should be compensated for the loss of use of a car at our standard rate of £10 
per day, from 30 September 2019 when Admiral sets out in finished its claims investigation, 
to the date it makes the payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Mr U £10 per day for the loss of use of a car from 30 September 2019 to the date 
it makes the payment; and
pay Mr U £250 compensation*.
*The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited Mr U accepts my final decision (if he does). If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision to the 
date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman