DRN-3665237
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc declined his claim for a refund under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some graphics cards.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr P bought some graphics cards from a third party which I will call C. 
He wanted to use them for cryptocurrency mining. He paid €766.90 for them with his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card (which in sterling came to £705.07). This payment passed 
through his PayPal account to C, so there is a dispute about whether section 75 applies.
In December 2020 Mr P contacted Sainsburys Bank to ask for a refund of his purchase 
under section 75, a law which (where it applies) makes the provider of credit liable for certain 
problems involving goods bought on credit. Mr P said the graphics cards hash rate 
(performance) had been declining, and that they were not fit for the purpose he had bought 
them for. However, Sainsburys Bank told him that section 75 did not apply to his purchase, 
because his payment had not been made directly to C but via his PayPal account.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr P brought this complaint to our service. Our 
investigator disagreed with Sainsburys Bank on the subject of whether section 75 applied: 
he said that the involvement of PayPal did not make a difference. He went on to find:
The cards hash rate was lower than that of cards made by other manufacturers;
The cards had still been under warranty when Mr P complained about them;1
The manufacturers website had said that the cards were suitable for crypto-mining, 
and C had not told him otherwise;
Mr P would not have bought the cards if he had been told they were not suitable for 
crypto-mining.
For these reasons, the investigator upheld this complaint, and recommended that 
Sainsburys Bank refund Mr P in full, with interest.
Sainsburys Bank did not accept that opinion. It argued that as Mr P had voluntarily involved 
PayPal (and not because it had been required by C), PayPal had not been acting merely as 
a payment processor, and so section 75 did not apply. The bank also said there was no 
evidence that the goods were defective. In particular, it argued that they had been used for a 
use for which they had not been intended by the manufacturer. It pointed out that Mr P had 
said that he had used the graphics cards for a couple of years, and that he had only 
expected them to last a couple more years anyway, and so he would not be entitled to a full 
refund even if his complaint was upheld. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows. (This forms part of my final decision.)
1 In fact they werent. He bought them in September 2017, and complained in December 2020. The 
warranty period was three years.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded that the graphics cards were defective at the point of 
sale, or that they were misrepresented. I will explain why.
The graphics cards were Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 6Gb cards. These were launched in 
2016 and, as Ive said, purchased by Mr P in 2017. He says (and I accept) that when he 
began using them, their performance or hash rate was around 24 or 25 MH/s (megahashes 
per second), but that by 2020 this had declined to 22 MH/s, a rate which he described as 
unacceptable.
The reason for this, putting it as simply as I can, is that over time, the DAG file (software 
which is indispensable for mining cryptocurrency) incrementally increased in size until it 
eventually became too large for the TLB (hardware pertaining to each graphics cards 
memory) to cope with. This resulted in a significant decline in the speed at which the cards 
could operate, as measured by the hash rate. There is nothing the purchaser can do about 
this. As this was inevitably going to happen at some point, Mr P says that the cards were not 
designed to be durable (particularly since it took less than two and a half years).
Mr P also says that a similar problem developed with another kind of graphics card made by 
a different manufacturer. That other manufacturer developed a fix for that issue, but Nvidia 
didnt. Mr P argues that Nvidia ought to have foreseen that this problem would occur sooner 
or later, and so it should either have taken steps to pre-empt it or Nvidia should never have 
marketed its cards as suitable for crypto mining. (When he raised that matter with Nvidia in 
2020, it told him that it could not assist him, and referred him to a forum for developers who 
were discussing the issue. I have looked at that forum, and I have seen a message there 
from Nvidia saying that they do not plan on doing anything about it.)
My opinion about all of this is as follows.
Firstly, I have not seen any evidence that C (the retailer who sold Mr P the cards) marketed 
the cards as being suitable for cryptocurrency mining. (I have looked at Cs website myself, 
and it only mentions gaming, but I only attach limited weight to that evidence because the 
website might have been different in 2017.) On balance, I dont think there is enough 
evidence to prove that the cards were misrepresented as being suitable for the task Mr P 
wanted to use them for (assuming that they were unsuitable).
Secondly, I have seen a number of websites2 which say that the standard hash rate of these 
cards at the point of sale is actually around 18 or 19 MH/s. This rate can be increased to 22 
MH/s or higher by overclocking  that is, by improving their performance by increasing their 
clock rate to a higher rate than the manufacturers design. So Mr P must have achieved his 
much higher hash rate by overclocking the cards.
There is nothing inherently wrong with overclocking, and many websites recommend it for a 
variety of reasons. However, the reduction of Mr Ps hash rate from 24 or 25 MH/s to 22 
MH/s, viewed against a standard (not overclocked) hash rate of around 18 MH/s, does not 
2 For example https://wccftech.com/nvidia-geforce-gtx-1060-cryptocurrency-mining-65w-detailed/ 
https://www.legitreviews.com/silent-ethereum-mining-evga-geforce-gtx-1060-22-mhs_195529 
https://www.pyramidreviews.com/bitcoin-mining/gtx-1060-mining-speed-hash-rate-tweaks-and-
adjustments/ amount to a defect in and of itself. The cards are still performing much better than the 
manufacturer designed them to.
Nevertheless, that point alone is not fatal to Mr Ps complaint. The decline of the hash rate 
over time is still probative evidence of the alleged defect, as it could indicate that the hash 
rate would still have declined whether they were overclocked or not. That is to say, without 
overclocking, the hash rate might have declined from 18 or 19 MH/s in 2017 to around 16 
MH/s in 2020. So this point is not determinative of Mr Ps case.
However, I am not persuaded that a decrease of two or three MH/s is as disastrous as Mr P 
suggests it is. It is a decline in performance by, at most, 12% after over two years of 
continuous use. That is not insignificant, but I still think it is relatively minor. I appreciate that 
it will be of great significance if it has resulted in Mr Ps cryptocurrency mining becoming so 
inefficient that it is no longer worthwhile, having regard to energy prices. But I have already 
concluded that the cards were not marketed as being suitable for that purpose.
That links to my third topic. It is not possible to know very far in advance of time how much 
computing power will be needed for crypto mining to be profitable, as that will change from 
time to time. Just because it ceases to be profitable one day does not necessarily mean that 
the hardware was unfit for purpose all along. It is still mining. It may not be mining profitably, 
but that does not mean the graphics cards were defective at the point of sale.
Fourthly, the decline in the hash rate is not solely because of something internal to the 
graphics cards. There is an external influence. As Ive said already, the issue is that the size 
of the DAG file has gradually increased over time, until it became too big for the cards to 
handle efficiently. But the size of the DAG file necessarily and unavoidably increases as a 
function of the process of crypto mining becoming more complicated over time. So this 
increasing complexity adversely affects the hash rate. This makes it difficult to infer that the 
declining hash rate means there is a defect in the graphics card. It is happening because 
each graphics card is having to do more than it had to at the outset.
This was always going to result in the DAG file becoming too big eventually. I agree that this 
was foreseeable by the manufacturer. But it was also foreseeable by anyone who bought it. 
It was necessary for consumers to buy a product which had not only the capacity to mine 
cryptocurrency at the time of purchase, but also with the additional capacity to continue 
doing so in the years to come. Every graphics card, not just Nvidias, will become obsolete at 
some point (whether it is used for mining or just for gaming). So what was suitable for a 
given purpose in 2017 will not always continue to be suitable. I accept that Mr P believed 
that the cards would last him for five or six years. But just because he turned out to be wrong 
about that does not necessarily mean that they were defective. On the balance of 
probabilities, I am not persuaded that they were.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
The bank accepted my provisional decision. Mr P did not. He provided evidence that C had 
indeed been marketing the cards as being suitable for crypto mining (and I accept that this is 
true). He also made the following submissions:
I had raised new points which had not been argued by the bank;
Overclocking is normal in crypto mining (I accepted this in my provisional decision);
I had confused the DAG file size with the memory limitations of the cards themselves 
and with an (alleged) defect in the TLB size;
The real problem is an inherent flaw in the design of the cards, which took two years to manifest and was triggered by the increase in the size of the DAG file;
That design flaw is the limited size of the TLB buffer, according to an online article3;
This defect would still have affected the cards even if he had only used them for 
gaming, and not for mining;
Nvidia has acknowledged that there is a problem;
It is legitimate to compare Nvidias cards with cards made by another manufacturer 
which dont have this issue;
Without this defect  which was of course present at the point of sale  if the cards 
had operated at normal hash rates then he could have continued mining for about six 
years;
A 12% drop in performance is not acceptable, and performance would have dropped 
by 20% by 2022;
He had expected to get at least six years of use out of the cards, instead of two, and 
therefore he should get a refund of 67% of what he had paid for them.
My findings
I realise that Nvidia has acknowledged that the problem exists, but it has not gone so far as 
to concede that it is a fault. So I have still had to consider the evidence and decide for myself 
whether the cards were faulty at the point of sale.
Proceedings before the Financial Ombudsman Service are not adversarial, as in a court, 
where each party pleads its case and presents its evidence, and then the court reaches a 
verdict based only on what has been pleaded and led in evidence. Rather, our proceedings 
are inquisitorial, which means that I can consider evidence and arguments which have not 
been advanced by the parties. So I can consider points which have not been raised by 
Sainsburys Bank  although everything that I said in my provisional decision was still related 
to the banks defence that the cards were not defective.
I accept that if the limited size of the TLB buffer amounts to a defect, as alleged, then the 
cards would have been defective at the point of sale, notwithstanding that the problem did 
not become apparent until a couple of years later.
The message Nvidia left on the developers forum reads as follows:
Weve confirmed that the performance drop is due to the size of the DAG 
exceeding the total on-chip TLB capacity  As a result, there is an 
increased number of TLB misses, which affects performance. Because the 
TLB is a fixed capacity hardware resource  we dont believe there are any 
software optimizations that could reduce the TLB miss rate.4
So although the issue described here concerns the TLB capacity, the problem is still 
triggered by the DAG file reaching a certain size.
As I explained in the fourth topic set out in my provisional decision, the DAG file was always 
going to reach a size at which the cards would cease to function properly one day. But 
Mr Ps point is that this was not supposed to happen because of anything to do with the TLB, 
but rather because of another limiting factor  the 6Gb of memory on each card. Once the 
DAG file size reached 6Gb  the cards maximum capacity  then it could not get any larger. 
Mr P estimated that this would happen after about six years, and he has no problem with 
that. But instead, the TLB acted as another limiting factor which made its effect felt much 
3 https://cryptoage.com/en/2824-the-reason-for-the-hashrate-drop-in-mining-on-nvidia-pascal-video-
cards-gtx-1070,-gtx-1080,-gtx-1080-ti.html  
4 https://forums.developer.nvidia.com/t/blockchain-drivers/110847/14 earlier, and before the DAG file could reach the size the cards had been built to 
accommodate. And that would clearly be a fault, because it would mean that the cards would 
never reach their intended potential of 6Gb, due to a stricter limiting factor intervening.
As I have said, Mr P provided a link to an online article on the subject, which I have read. It 
is titled The reason for the hashrate drop in mining on Nvidia Pascal video cards (GTX 
1070, GTX 1080, GTX 1080 Ti). However, the second paragraph says:
It is worth noting that the hashrate decreases not only for the GTX 1070 
video card, but also for the GTX 1080 and GTX 1080 Ti, although not so 
catastrophically. More interestingly, no such problems were seen with the 
GTX 1060 and GTX 1070 Ti from the same 1000 series. (Emphasis added.)
Since Mr Ps cards were GTX 1060 cards, this article does not prove that his cards were 
affected by this problem. Neither does the Nvidia message I have quoted above, which was 
a response to a question posed specifically about GTX 1070 and 1080 cards.
That is not to say that Mr P has not been experiencing a decline in the hash rate of his GTX 
1060 cards (and I accept that he has), only that the TLB is not necessarily the cause.
Another article5 explains that a decline in the hash rate is to be expected when crypto mining 
with a GTX 1060 card, due to a different reason: insufficient VRAM memory in the cards 
GPU, which is the problem I described in my provisional decision. (That article then goes on 
to discuss TLB problems, but separately.) 
So on the balance of probabilities, I am not persuaded that the issue is that the TLB was 
defective, but rather that the DAG file increased in size faster than Mr P had expected, which 
affected performance. And I am not persuaded that that is a fault which was present at the 
point of sale.
I am therefore unable to say that Sainsburys Bank erred in its response to Mr Ps section 75 
claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
5 https://www.techpowerup.com/234482/eth-mining-lower-vram-gpus-to-be-rendered-unprofitable-in-
time?cp=2 (This mentions a GTX 1060 card with only 3 Gb of memory, but I expect that a 6 Gb card 
would be no different.)