DRN-3268571
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) changed 
the direct debit instruction without her authority.
What happened
Miss M has held a catalogue shopping account with Very for several years. She says shed
chosen to repay her purchases under the Take 3 option. This payment option allows her to
repay the cost of purchases over three consecutive payments and avoid interest charges.
In June 2016, Miss M switched her bank account. Very was contacted by Miss Ms new bank
requesting the Variable Direct Debit (VDD) to be amended. Following this, the direct debit
payments made towards the account were only for the minimum payment, so Miss M started
incurring interest on her purchases.
Miss M didnt notice this until March 2021 when she raised a complaint. Very say that the
information from Miss Ms bank didnt instruct them on the payment option, so they defaulted
it to the contractual minimum payments.
Our investigator said that Very should have checked with Miss M about which payment
option she wanted. But she thought Miss M should have realised she was only making the
minimum payment sooner. She recommended Very refund the interest added to the account
from June to August 2016.
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What I had provisionally decided 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 December 2021, and I made the following findings:
The instructions Very received from Miss Ms new bank didnt specify her preferred 
payment option. But Miss M has been a customer of Very for a number of years and 
their system records show the payment option she had set up was Take 3.
I appreciate Very have said that they couldnt change the VDD instruction to Take 3 
as the preferred payment option without Miss Ms authority. But Very should 
reasonably have been aware that the only change Miss M was making was her bank 
details and not her payment option.
I say this because I can see a system note which says: VDD amended. Reason 
account transferred to XXXX. In any event, its reasonable to expect Very to have 
got in touch with Miss M to check before defaulting the payment option to the 
contractual minimum payments.
So, I dont think Very have treated Miss M fairly. And as a result, shes incurred 
interest on her purchases, which she couldve avoided by using the Take 3 option.
That said, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Very to reimburse all the interest 
Miss M has been charged on the account since May 2016. I say this because, Miss 
M couldve reasonably reduced the impact on herself.
Miss M says she had no reason to check her statements as she received text 
messages from Very confirming payments were made towards the account.
I agree the text messages wouldnt have been enough for Miss M to be aware that 
the payments being taken were only the minimum payments, as this wasnt specified.
But Very sent Miss M monthly statements electronically. They also sent monthly 
emails letting her know her statement was ready to be viewed. Im satisfied Miss M 
was given information from which she could see the payments being taken were the 
minimum payments only, and not the Take 3 payment option.
Miss M should reasonably have checked these regularly, even if she thought the 
account was operating as usual. Its up to Miss M to decide on how often she reviews 
her statements, if at all. But I dont think I can fairly hold Very responsible for all the 
interest charges as it was Miss Ms choice not to check her statements.
Its reasonable to expect Miss M to have checked her statements every month. But I 
can understand why Miss M may have decided not to do so, in June and July 2016, 
as she didnt place any orders on the account. However, in August 2016, Miss M 
made some purchases and returns.
So, I think Miss M reasonably shouldve checked September 2016 statement, at the 
latest. This statement wouldve shown she was only making the minimum payment 
but also that shed been charged interest  which she wasnt expecting. This 
wouldve alerted Miss M to an issue with the payments being made towards her 
account.
And if Miss M had raised this at the time, which Id reasonably have expected her to, 
Very could have rectified their mistake, and set up the direct debit with the correct 
payment option. This wouldve prevented interest being charged on further 
purchases from September 2016.
Since I think September 2016 is the latest point from when Miss M shouldve 
checked her statement, Very should rework the account to ensure no interest is 
applied from the date of the May 2016 statement to the date of the October 2016 
statement.
Very should also add 8% simple interest per annum to the credit balance resulting 
from the recalculation of interest, from the date Miss M repaid the outstanding 
balance on her account to the date of settlement.
Miss M has experienced some shock, worry and disappointment having discovered 
shes been charged interest on her purchases which she wasnt expecting. Shes 
also been caused some inconvenience in having to sort this matter out.
Taking into account the impact on Miss M, I think Very should compensate her with 
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
In summary, Very should:Rework Miss Ms account to ensure no interest is applied from the 21 May 
2016 to 8 October 2016.
Refund the credit balance resulting from the recalculation of the interest 
charged.
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date Miss M cleared the   
outstanding balance (12 June 2021) to the date of settlement.
Pay £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Custom requires Very to deduct tax from this interest. Very must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if she asks for one.
Responses to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision and provide any further evidence 
or arguments they want me to consider.
Miss M replied with screenshots of some text messages she received from Very to show that 
they only confirmed that a payment of certain amount had been made but didnt indicate she 
was only paying the minimum payment. 
She explained that she was aware the amount she paid would change each month 
depending on purchases and returns. Since she had a direct debit set up and received text 
messages from Very confirming payments were made towards the account, she felt she had 
no reason to check her statements.
Very agreed to settle the complaint in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about the points Miss M has made, but I havent changed my mind. 
Although the screenshots of the text messages werent previously provided, the points she 
has made arent new. Ive already considered and addressed these in my provisional 
decision. 
In my provisional decision, I accepted that the text messages wouldnt have been enough to 
make Miss M aware that the payments being taken were only the minimum payments and 
not the Take 3 payment option, as this wasnt mentioned in the messages.
I also explained, I thought it was reasonable for Miss M to check her statements even if she 
didnt expect any issues, particularly by the statement of September 2016 as shed made a 
number of purchases and returns in August 2016. I still remain of this view. 
I know Miss M will be disappointed but having considered everything, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional decision for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Very should take the following steps to put things right: 
Rework Miss Ms account to ensure no interest is applied from the 21 May 2016 to 8 
October 2016.Refund the credit balance resulting from the recalculation of the interest charged.
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date Miss M cleared the outstanding 
balance (12 June 2021) to the date of settlement.
Pay £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Custom requires Very to deduct tax from this interest. Very must give Miss
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (trading as Very) should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman