DRN-1306067
The complaint
Ms B complains about her treatment by The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) while shes been 
in financial difficulty. She says it hasnt helped her and is threatening to repossess the 
property. And she says that the interest rate is too high  if it was lower, the mortgage would 
be more affordable for her.
What happened
Ms B has had her mortgage with TMB for many years. Its on interest only terms. Since 2010 
she has been in and out of arrears. Throughout that time, she has been on the standard 
variable rate (SVR), which is currently around 5%.
TMB capitalised arrears of around £20,000 in 2015. But almost immediately the mortgage 
fell back into arrears again. 
Over the next few years, Ms B made some payments and missed others, and in some 
months she paid some but not all of the monthly payments. By 2019, the arrears were over 
£30,000 and TMB told her it would be instructing solicitors to repossess the property.
Ms B complained. She said that she hadnt been treated fairly. She said the interest rate was 
too high. If the rate had been less, the mortgage would be more affordable. She said she 
could afford to pay around £1,000 a month, but the current monthly payments were around 
£1,300. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms B asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Ms Bs various difficulties over recent years. Im sure shes not had 
an easy time, and this has contributed to her problems with the mortgage.
Where  as here  a borrower is struggling to repay the mortgage, I would expect the lender 
to treat them fairly. This means working with the borrower to explore options to try and bring 
the mortgage back on track. Repossession of the property should be a last resort when it 
becomes clear theres little prospect of that happening.
There are various options that can be tried, though not all are appropriate in all cases. One 
option is capitalising the arrears. I can see TMB did this in 2015, when it added £20,000 of 
arrears to the mortgage balance. Unfortunately, though, Ms B went into arrears again the 
following month. 
Capitalisation involves adding the arrears to the main balance and recalculating the 
mortgage payments to include them. So it increases the mortgage payments  and is only 
generally appropriate where the new higher payments would be affordable and sustainable 
for the long term. 
In this case, I dont think capitalisation would be appropriate. Although Ms B has managed to 
make some of her payments, and has at times managed to do so for several months at a 
time, its clear from what shes said and the income and expenditure check TMB did that she 
cant afford the current payments, let alone higher ones. Ms B says she would be able to 
afford the payments if the interest rate was reduced; Ill say more about that below. But that 
apart, I dont think capitalisation would assist in this case. 
Another option is extending the term. But that doesnt help with interest only mortgages, 
since the payment is the same whatever the term.
A reduced payment arrangement can help in the short term, giving the borrower space to get 
things back on track  for example, in a gap between jobs or to cover a period of illness. But 
because the full payments arent being made it means the arrears increase  and so doesnt 
help with more long term problems. 
Ive looked carefully at the interaction between Ms B and TMB in recent years and I can see 
it has explored various options. Its looked at her circumstances and her financial situation to 
see if theres anyway of getting the mortgage back on track. But unfortunately there hasnt 
been. I think the reality is that sadly this mortgage is no longer affordable for Ms B, and 
theres little TMB can do to change that.
That brings me on to the interest rate. Ms B says that if the rate were lower, the mortgage 
would be affordable. Im not persuaded that is the case, though. There are months where Ms 
B hasnt been able to make any payments at all  including recently  and a lower interest 
rate wouldnt have helped in those months.
Ms B has been on the SVR for some years. TMB doesnt offer new interest rates to its 
customers  not just Ms B, but any customer  and so it has no new fixed rates to give Ms B. 
It does have an agreement with Bank of Scotland, another lender in the Lloyds group, to 
allow borrowers to move to Bank of Scotland to access lower interest rates. But Bank of 
Scotland wont take any customers in arrears. Bank of Scotland isnt party to this complaint, 
so I make no findings about the fairness of that policy here. But the fact remains that Ms B 
isnt eligible to move her mortgage there.
As I say, TMB doesnt offer new interest rates. And I dont think that a new rate would solve 
Ms Bs problems, or make the mortgage affordable or sustainable. So I dont think TMB 
needs to reduce the interest rate it charges Ms B by way of forbearance  as that wouldnt 
be enough to get the mortgage back on track. 
Having carefully considered everything thats happened over recent years, I do think TMB 
has tried to assist Ms B and tried to find a way to bring the mortgage back on track. 
Unfortunately, that hasnt proved possible. But I think TMB has acted fairly in the way its 
tried, and so I cant uphold this complaint.
I understand Ms B hasnt been able to make payments while her complaint has been with 
us. I hope shes able to get things back on track in the future, and TMB has an ongoing 
obligation to treat her fairly and consider any proposals she might make. But Im afraid that, 
based on whats happened to date, I dont think its unreasonable for TMB to consider that 
its reaching the last resort.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman