DRN-2394859
The complaint
Miss S complains Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post 
Office) allowed a payment to be made from her credit card after it had been closed.
What happened
Miss S received a credit card statement from Post Office showing  a payment had been 
made from her credit card account. Miss S says she thought the account had been closed 
having discussed this previously with Post Office when they were unable to resolve a 
problem making payments online using her credit card. Miss S tried to call Post Office to 
discuss this but failed the security questions. Miss S says she wrote to Post Office on three 
occasions to query this, but it was only when she sent a letter by recorded delivery, did she 
receive any response. Miss S says Post Office have incorrectly reported her credit card 
account to credit reference agencies because she believed the account should have been 
closed before the payment was debited.  Miss S wants her credit file corrected and a 
compensation payment made for the poor service given. 
Post Office says they have no record of any previous letters from Miss S and it was 
explained to her and her husband, who is an additional cardholder, they would need to call 
to arrange to close the credit card account after settling any outstanding balance in full.
Miss S wasnt happy with Post Offices response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Post Office acted correctly in allowing the payment from the credit card 
account as it hadnt been closed nor had Miss S made the payments due on her credit card 
account. The investigator says, in view of this, Post Office were correct in the actions they 
took to report the missed payments to the appropriate credit reference agencies. 
Miss S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Post Office should have closed the credit 
card account before the recurring debit was taken, which in turn created the outstanding 
borrowing and lead to this being reported to credit reference agencies. 
I can understand Miss Ss frustration when both she and her husband, an additional card 
holder on the account, believed they had settled her credit card account with Post Office only 
to see a further payment made creating an outstanding balance. 
What happened here is in January 2019 Miss S and her husband telephoned Post Office as 
they had experienced problems when trying to make transactions online when using the 
credit card. Miss S says this had been a recurring issue and she had raised these problems 
previously with Post office. Post Office established during the phone call in January 2019, 
the issue lay with Mastercard and she would need to contact them.  I have listened to this 
telephone call and it is then decided by Miss S and her husband to arrange to close the 
credit card account given the problems they had faced.
Miss S says she thought she had closed her credit card account in her complaint to this 
service, but in the phone call in January 2019 it was made clear by the member of staff at 
Post Office they would need to call back to close the credit card account, 24 hours after 
settling any outstanding balance. Miss S and her husband in the same call ask for a 
statement to be sent to settle this rather than being transferred to another department where 
they could have paid off the balance at that time, and reminded this would need to be 
followed up with a call to close the credit card account.
What is also worth mentioning is Miss S continued to use the credit card in January and 
February 2019 and it wasnt until March 2019, a payment was made to clear the outstanding 
balance owed. Its important to say clearing the outstanding balance of a credit card isnt the 
same as closing the account. It was explained to both Miss S and her husband in January 
2019 what was needed to arrange this, namely to call Post Office after the payment was 
made to organise the closure of the account. 
What followed here was, Miss S telephoned Post Office in June 2019 following receipt of a 
credit card statement in May showing transactions on her credit card account relating to a 
recurring payment set up on her account  its worth saying Miss S recognised the payment, 
but her issue was the credit card account should have been closed. During this call Miss S 
was told she had failed security questions and could try calling back later. Miss S says she 
then wrote two letters in June and July 2019 without any response and then finally heard 
back from Post Office following her sending a recorded letter in August 2019. Post office 
have no record of the letters sent in June or July 2019 and Miss S has no proof of postage. 
While Miss S may have sent these letters, I can only look at the evidence presented to me 
and I cant say with any certainty these letters were received by Post Office, given when they 
did receive her letter in August, sent to the same postal address, they did respond to her.
I can understand this would have been a frustrating time for Miss S, and while I can see that 
she made attempts to clarify why her credit card account wasnt closed, it is important to say 
it remained her responsibility to ensure her payments on the credit card account were kept 
up to date until the matter was resolved. I say this because it was clear from her credit card 
statements post her telephone call in January 2019 that the account remained open as these 
show the balance owed and the credit card limit still available to her. I cant see Miss S had 
given formal notice to close the credit card account which is a requirement under the terms 
and conditions of her credit card agreement and explained to her in the call she made in 
January 2019. 
Both Miss S and her husband believed they had telephoned Post Office to close the account 
but neither can recall when this was. From the information I have seen there seems to be 
some ambiguity regarding whether the call was made by Miss S or her husband and there is 
no evidence provided by either party to support this. 
It follows, on balance, I am satisfied Post Office hadnt been told to close the credit card 
account prior to the time the recurring payment was debited to her credit card account in 
May 2019. As a result, while she may disagree, given the minimum payments due werent 
paid by Miss S, and it remained her responsibility to do so, Post Office were within their 
rights to report this to the appropriate credit reference agencies. Although Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Post 
Office here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman