DRN-3853795
The complaint
Mr G complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly declined his 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
RSA have referenced a policy exclusion related to illegal activities. The exclusion
sets out several requirements that need to be complied with by Mr G.
One of these requirements is that Mr G, or someone acting on his behalf, complete
internal and external inspections of the building at least every three months.
RSA have applied this in declining Mr Gs claim as it said internal inspections
hadnt taken place.
I understand COVID restrictions and Mr Gs tenant refusing entry made inspections 
difficult. 
Mr G could have reasonably done more to mitigate his circumstances regarding 
internal inspections, such as contacting RSA to inform them of the issues he was 
experiencing in inspecting the property. Mr G could also have attempted to arrange 
video inspections.
But on balance, considering the circumstances, and the tenant was not responding to 
Mr Gs requests to inspect the property in person, Im not persuaded this would have 
made a difference. As its likely the tenant wouldnt have complied.
However, if Mr G had completed internal inspections, I also think its likely it would 
only have identified the Cannabis Farm had been set up earlier. And Im not 
persuaded it would have prevented it happening.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the other terms regarding illegal activity 
hadnt been complied with and while there was more Mr G couldve reasonably done, 
I think he did try to comply. 
I recognise the policy term strictly allows RSA to decline the claim. But I must also 
consider whether applying that term would produce a fair and reasonable outcome  
and I dont think it treats Mr G fairly and reasonably to rely on the clause in these 
circumstances.
As Ive set out above if Mr G had completed internal inspections, I think its likely it 
would only have identified the Cannabis Farm had been set up earlier. And Im not 
persuaded that it would have prevented it happening. So, while technically it is a 
breach in conditions, I think in the circumstances, it is fair and reasonable that RSA 
deal with the claim.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
RSA should now proceed to deal with the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr G said he had to undertake temporary work at the property to mitigate the 
damage. RSA should consider these costs when considering settlement, on 
production of sufficient evidence such as receipts.
8% simple interest should be added to amount paid by Mr G from the date of the 
invoice to the date RSA makes the settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman