DRN-3447714
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc cancelled his direct debit mandate and 
his account fell more than £10,000 into arrears.
What happened
Mr C complains that his direct debit for paying his mortgage was cancelled by RBS between 
April 2019 and May 2019 which has resulted in the accumulation of over £10,000 arrears. 
On 15 May 2019, RBS re-keyed an Evictions Possession Order for six months for monthly 
payments of £830.85. A letter went out to Mr C to that effect. It seems that on 17 May 2019, 
RBS stopped collecting the direct debit through an administrative error and Mr C didnt make 
payments. The arrears by the end of 2021 were more than £30,000. RBS offered 
compensation of £150 for cancelling the direct debit. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld as he felt that even if the direct debit had been cancelled 
there were other ways for Mr C to make payments had he wished to do so. Mr C disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is in an unfortunate position with a possession order made on his home and substantial 
arrears on his account. Mr C says that RBS cancelled a direct debit mandate in 2019 and 
this is accepted by RBS which has offered compensation of £150 for doing so. I believe 
thats appropriate compensation for this administrative error.
But Mr C goes further and say that RBSs failure has resulted in him increasing his arrears 
substantially. Mr C has not been making payments since. Mr Cs account was not in a good 
position in May 2019 as there was a possession order on his home and an arrangement in 
place to make payments of the arrears.  I would have thought that if Mr C was able to do so 
that he would have been making efforts to make payments to RBS because of the arrears. 
RBS says that in its letter to Mr C of 15 May 2019 that beside making payments by direct 
debit he could pay by standing order, cheque, or credit card. I would have thought that it was 
reasonable given the size of the arrears that Mr C could have checked his bank account to 
see if money was going out to RBS and if these payments  werent being collected by direct 
debit, he could have made these payments by other means. It was up to Mr C to make the 
payments and he didnt but thats not the fault of RBS. Mr C hasnt been making payments to 
RBS for some time although he has been aware that RBS had cancelled the direct debit so I 
cant say that he was somehow misled to believe that the payments were being collected. I 
note that RBS tried to make contact with Mr C about the arrears. But it should have been 
obvious to Mr C in any case by looking at his bank balance that these payments werent 
being made. So, although RBS shouldnt have cancelled the direct debit and Mr C should be 
compensated for his inconvenience by the offer of £150, I cant fairly accept that it was the 
cancellation that led to the increase in the arrears that has occurred. I note that both RBS 
and our investigator have suggested sources of free debt advice that Mr C may wish to avail 
of, and he may wish to consider those. I am sorry to hear of the financial situation that Mr C 
finds himself in but for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman