DRN-3589558
The complaint
Mr P on behalf of W, a building management company of which he is a director, complains  
that he has been unfairly treated by his home insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc in reaching a fair 
and reasonable settlement of his claim for damage from an escape of water. Mr P is 
represented in his complaint but for ease Ive just referred to Mr P.  
What happened
Mr P lives in a block of flats. He claimed to Allianz for damage in May 2020 after mould was 
found in a common hallway outside his flat. He said a large amount of water was found 
under the floor of his kitchen and dining room. Mr P appointed a claims management 
company but didnt contact Allianz to get cover for tracing and accessing the leak. 
Mr P used a leak detection firm to who dismantled a cupboard and removed floorboards. 
They found a leak from a kitchen waste pipe, which they fixed and provided a report which 
concluded that the flooring had been discoloured and would need to be replaced.   
Allianz wouldnt confirm liability for the claim and challenged Mr Ps scope of work and the 
drying out. Mr P appointed an expert to assess the damage in his flat. He said Allianz then 
changed its claims team and appointed solicitors and this made the claim process expensive 
and stressful. He said the upshot was that Allianz limited its liability to a small patch repair.
Allianzs loss adjuster said Mr P should have involved Allianz in decisions at the start of the 
claim. And it hadnt been necessary to lift all of the floorboards or break them. He also said it 
wasnt necessary to replace the kitchen units, bookshelves and wardrobes, or redecorate the 
entire property. Mr P said it was essential to see if there was more than a single leak and 
allowed drying out to take place straightaway. Allianzs loss adjuster met Mr P with their 
surveyor at his flat. He said the surveyor agreed his proposed scope of works and he was 
contact by a firm to arrange alternative accommodation during the repairs. 
Mr P instructed a surveyor to assess the damage and repair costs, and said his report was in 
line with Allianzs original loss adjusters report. Mr P said his floorboards were discoloured 
throughout his flat as a result of high moisture levels, not as a consequence of a leak from 
the flat above as suggested by Allianzs second loss adjuster. Mr P said his surveyor thought 
further floorboards should be lifted so that more moisture readings could be carried out. 
Mr P was very upset by Allianzs decisions as he had a big hole in his floor awaiting repairs 
and little prospect of it being put right. Following a further inspection Allianz offered Mr P 
£8,000 for what Mr P described as a basic patch repair to our hallway floor and hallway 
cupboard only, and what Allianz described as repairs required to repair the damage. Allianz 
then included a sum for two weeks alternative accommodation paying £10,400.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service, saying Allianz should replace all of his flooring 
and provide a fair settlement of his claim. He also wants Allianz to repay him for the costs of 
experts he employed and provide alternative accommodation during the repairs. He said 
Allianz should have made its payment to him rather than the building management company.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said the reports show the floor 
was damaged by water from below rather than above as one report suggested. He said 
Allianz should pay to repair the entire floor, but not replace above ground units. But as Mr P 
hadnt contacted Allianz about trace and access it shouldnt be responsible for the call out 
costs, but should pay Mr P for the expert reports and the cost of drying his flat out.  
The investigator said Allianz caused delays with communication, repairs and the site visit. 
He said payment should have made to Mr P. He said its hard for Mr P to see why his claim 
is disputed as Allianz hasnt sent him its surveyors report. And it should pay him £500 
compensation for the stress hes been caused by its delays and lack of explanations. 
Allianz accepted this outcome, but Mr P didnt. He asked for reconsideration of his costs for 
trace and access, the scope of work and to reinstate his flat to pre-leak condition, and for 
alternative accommodation. He accepted he should have contacted Allianz before paying to 
access the leak but said had he not done so, my leak would never be found and stopped. 
He requested payment of £950 for this at the rate a cheaper firm would have charged him. 
Mr P said work based on the second loss adjusters report wouldnt reinstate his flat to its 
pre-damaged condition as with the scope of work from the original loss adjuster. He said the 
second report incorrectly states that his built-in furniture has removable plinths and he 
concerned about damage and not having the entire floor replaced leaving it mismatched. 
Allianz agreed to offer an independent surveyor to inspect Mr Ps flat. This took place in April 
2022 and the report recommended that furniture and units be carefully dismantled to allow 
the entire floor to be replaced. Mr P agreed to this approach but was concerned about 
mould. He didnt think £500 compensation was enough for the health risks and delays hes 
faced and suggested £2,000. Mr P requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Allianzs decisions and handling of Mr Ps claim to see if it has acted 
in accordance with his policy and treated him fairly. In so doing Ive looked at the expert 
reports And Mr Ps comments and photos. From recent communications between the parties 
it appears that the repair work is agreed and ready to commence. And so I have 
concentrated on the remaining points of disagreement. 
Mr P said if he hadnt arranged for trace and access work, my leak would never be found 
and stopped. I dont agree as this is routine work that insurers arrange for policyholders 
quickly to mitigate the damage for which they would then be liable. Mr P said its unfair to 
suffer this loss, but its also unfair for Allianz to pay much more than it would have cost via its 
own contractor. Ive seen very small costs for this type of work, but its not possible to know 
what Allianz might have paid. Mr P has acknowledged he should have involved Allianz in this 
work from the start. Not to have done so has prejudiced Allianzs position on managing the 
claim and its costs and I dont think its fair to require Allianz to pay Mr P for this work.
I can understand Mr Ps concern about being left with mismatched flooring which might 
devalue his property. Allianz has said it will replace all of the flooring and I think this is 
reasonable and so I dont expect this to be an issue when the repairs take place. 
Mr P was also concerned that Allianzs loss adjuster incorrectly thought that his built-in 
furniture and kitchen units have removable plinths. Since then the independent surveyors 
report concluded that where necessary furniture would be replaced and a sum for repairs has been allocated which reflects this. Our aim for all insurance repairs is that they restore a 
property to its pre-damaged condition and are carried out to an effective and lasting 
standard. 
Mr Ps policy covers him for the reasonable costs of comparable alternative accommodation 
while his home is uninhabitable, and storage of his furniture as required. This will be needed 
while the repairs are carried out and Mr P wants Allianz to assist him in making 
accommodation arrangements or making a suitable cash payment. Its not for us to say how 
much this should cost but we would expect Allianz to find alternative accommodation in 
accordance with his policy for the period he will be out of his home. I think this is likely to be 
for more than two weeks. 
I agree with the investigator that the expert reports Mr P obtained have influenced the 
direction his claim has taken, and it is fair that he should be reimbursed for them by Allianz. 
This includes the fee of £540 to a restoration firm and £840 to a firm of property consultants. 
Im pleased that Allianz has agreed to this and should make payment if it hasnt already 
done so.
Allianz has been responsible for delays, which it has acknowledged, but its not responsible 
for all of the time the claim has taken. Mr P has also mentioned the health concern of living 
with mould. However, he first mentioned this to Allianz in May 2022 and so theres no reason 
for Allianz to have acted differently and no evidence of adverse health impacts. And so I 
agree with the investigator that Allianz should pay Mr P £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he has suffered as a consequence of its poor communications and 
delays. Allianz has agreed to this and should make payment if it hasnt already done so.
Any new issues to do with the repairs or mould that may arise can be brought as separate 
complaints by Mr P if he is dissatisfied with how the claim is finalised by Allianz. If Mr P does 
make a further complaint, he can refer his complaint to our service once he has received a 
final response from the business.
Mr P has asked for payments to be made to his representatives as per the details provided 
to Allianz and I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Allianz Insurance Plc to reimburse Mr P for the costs of his professional reports as 
set out above together with interest at 8% simple payable from the date of his payment to 
when Allianz pays him. I also require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr P £500 compensation 
for the inconvenience and distress hes been caused by its poor and delayed handling of his 
claim. 
I hope the repairs proceed quickly and to a satisfactory outcome.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P on behalf of 
W to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman