DRN-2403884
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was unable to use TSB Bank plc online banking on 1 July 2020.
What happened
Mr B says he couldnt use TSBs online banking on 1 July 2020 which meant he couldnt 
access his account or make any payments. He says he had to use another account to make 
payments and would like TSB to admit there was a problem and that its online banking 
wasnt working.
TSB has apologised for the problem and says its systems were running slower than usual. It 
says Mr B could have used telephone banking or attended a branch and did make a 
payment that day at 15.48. It also says it will consider any evidence Mr B provides about any 
costs caused by the problem.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr Bs complaint was that he didnt have access to his money and couldnt pay his 
bills. And that TSBs records showed that there were two payments into his account and a 
payment out. She also thought Mr B could have used alternative ways of banking and that 
the account terms and conditions say that TSB may limit internet banking if there is a system 
failure.
Mr B says he would like TSB to admit its services were down for a brief period and not say 
they were slow. He says TSB should be honest and says telephone banking is his least 
favourite way of banking. And he questions why TSB has paid him for problems accessing 
his business account that day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate Mr B will 
be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at what Mr B told us about his complaint when he first brought it to 
us. I can see he told us he was unable to access his money and pay his bills and that he 
wanted TSB to admit there was a problem and tell its customers what it was doing to fix it.
I have looked at TSBs records and Im satisfied Mr B was able to access his account that 
day and was able to make a payment at 15.48. And Im satisfied that Mr B was able to 
access money via a different bank account that day as he has told us that. So, I dont think 
Mr B has suffered any financial loss that day and I think he could have accessed his money 
earlier on that day by attending a branch or by telephone banking. I also think the account 
terms and conditions, which I think Mr B would have agreed to, make clear that TSB may 
limit internet banking use if for example there is a system failure.
We are not TSBs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what it tells its customers about 
these sorts of issues or order it to tell its customers what if anything it has done to resolve 
them. It follows that I cant order TSB to apologise to Mr B or any other customer affected by 
what took place on 1 July 2020 or order it to explain the exact reason why Mr B couldnt 
access his account.
Overall, Im satisfied that the key issue is that Mr B was able to access his account on 1 July 
2020 and could have used alternative methods of banking if he wished. I have explained 
why we cant comment on the other parts of his complaint and its not our role to investigate 
what took place on 1 July 2020 or the reasons for it. I can see TSB has explained why it paid 
£25 and why it would not pay any more as Mr B uses one login to access both personal and 
business accounts. As Im satisfied TSB hasnt made a mistake I cant fairly order it to pay 
compensation for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman