DRN-1957324
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) refused to deal with 
her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Mrs D rescued her dog from a rescue centre on 19 August 2019 with no apparent pre-
existing illnesses. The rescue centre provided Mrs D with a free 5-week pet policy with Agria. 
That ran from 19 August 2019 to 22 September 2019.
Mrs D decided to set up a pet policy with another provider to run from the expiry date of the 
Agrias free policy.
Mrs D noticed her dog was limping around the 10 September 2019. She contacted the 
rescue centre and they suggested she rested her dog for four weeks to see if it would 
resolve. Sadly, it didnt, and Mrs D took her dog to the vet on 17 October 2019 where it was 
discovered her dog had ruptured the cruciate ligament and required surgery which cost in 
the region of £3,000.
Mrs D contacted Agria to make a claim. Agria explained her claim wasnt covered as no vet 
fees were incurred during the five weeks cover of its policy. It appears Mrs Ds present pet 
insurer wouldnt cover her claim either, since her dogs condition started before its policy 
commenced. Mrs D complained but Agria wouldnt uphold her complaint, so Mrs D brought it 
to us.
The investigator didnt think Agria had done anything wrong. Mrs D didnt agree so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I understand and appreciate that Mrs D has had insurance to cover her dog all the way 
through since rescuing her dog. And I understand and appreciate she believes that one or 
the other of her insurers should pay her claim. 
First, I should advise that Im only considering her complaint against Agria. Any complaint 
Mrs D has with her present insurer (or rather the policy that was subsequent to Agrias), 
must be dealt with separately, as our rules dont permit me to deal with a complaint against 
two different insurers in the same decision. 
All pet policies to include Agrias, agree to pay the cost of the vet treatment required subject 
to the terms and conditions of the policies. What is insured is the vet treatment costs, not the 
health of the dog. So, in legal terms the insured event is the vet fees. Because the health 
conditions can so often be ongoing, most pet policies to include Agrias have conditions 
which limit the cover for the vet fees also as to the amount or the duration.
 
Agrias policy terms are clear on this as they say the following:
The Insurer will provide cover explained in each policy section for an illness, injury or 
loss happening within the 35 days of this policy. The cover is based on your financial 
loss, which is the amount of money the illness, injury, loss or theft has cost you. This 
policy wording and your Schedule of Insurance form your contract of insurance. 
.
Section 1 Veterinary Fees also states;
We will pay the cost of treatment for an illness or injury your pet receives during the 
35 days of this policy
So, this means Mrs D had to incur the vet fees (as in a financial loss) for her dogs leg issue 
before cover could be given. Mrs D didnt incur any vet fees during the five-week period 
because she was seeing if her dogs problem resolved itself before taking her to a vet. 
There is nothing inherently wrong with the cover merely extending to the liability for vet fees 
only. This is standard industry practice. Indeed, as pet policies generally are annual policies, 
ongoing cover for a condition is always subject to the policy renewing. If the policy isnt 
renewed, then cover for any vet fees arising from a covered condition always then ceases. 
There is never any cover available beyond the expiry date of the policy.
Mrs D had the opportunity to take out an annual policy for her dog with Agria, at the expiry of 
the five weeks free cover, which then would have given her life time cover for her dog 
subject to any other conditions limiting cover. Her welcome email from Agria said the 
following: 
WELCOME TO AGRIA PET INSURANCE
YOUR 5 WEEKS FREE INSURANCE STARTS NOW
Your rehoming organisation set up 5 weeks free Agria cover for your dog when you 
collected your newest member of the family. Your 5 weeks free cover will give you peace 
of mind as you get to know your new dog - peace of mind that you can continue for life if 
you choose to keep your insurance with us.
HOW TO EXTEND YOUR COVER
Your policy documents will be sent to your postal and you should receive these within 7 
days. Extending your free cover to a full annual policy is easy, just click on the Extend 
your Cover link above or call our friendly UK-based Customer Service team on [tel 
number]. 
We know youre busy and sometimes renewal dates get overlooked. So, its important to 
extend your cover now  dont worry you wont lose any of your free cover period. We 
can start your new annual policy on the day your free cover runs out.
However, Mrs D didnt do that, instead she took out another policy with a different insurer to 
start when the cover under Agrias free one ceased. This meant there was a break in cover 
as regards providers for her dogs condition. So that means, as I understand it, Mrs Ds 
subsequent policy cant cover her claim, since her dog started limping before that policy commenced and cover for pre-existing conditions is excluded. And theres nothing for her to 
claim under Agrias policy, because Mrs D didnt incur any vet fees during its free cover for 
the five weeks. 
Had she instead, obtained her annual policy with her subsequent insurer at the time she 
rescued her dog or extended the free Agria cover to an annual policy before the free cover 
time expired, she would have had cover. But in starting a new policy with a different insurer 
at the expiry of her free Agria, Mrs D broke the continuity of cover for any condition that 
might have started once she took her dog home, ensuring she has no valid claim with Agria, 
nor indeed it seems with her subsequent insurer. 
As I explained above, in legal terms the insured event which initiates the policy coverage 
under Agrias policy (and indeed most other pet policies) is the incurring of vet fees for a 
condition, rather than the condition manifesting itself. 
No pet policy is underwritten or provides cover on the basis that it pays claims after the 
policy has expired. If that was to incur, given such medical conditions can often be ongoing 
(for example diabetes, or thyroid issues etc) the insurer would be paying claims with no 
premium being paid by the former policyholder, which in fact nullifies the contract in any 
event and certainly wouldnt be fair.  No insurer would put itself at that risk, as it also 
wouldnt be commercially viable either. 
Several insurers work with rescue centres and pet breeders to provide a limited amount of 
free cover like Agria has done here. None usually extend more than a few weeks and it 
provides peace of mind for the new pet owner at the exciting time of settling in a new pet, 
plus provides the insurer with a chance of getting more business should the new pet owner 
then decide to take out that insurers annual policy. There is also nothing wrong with an 
insurer doing this as far as the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) is concerned.
Further all pet policies are sold or offered on a non-advised basis, so there no advice given 
by the insurer or provider, beyond the fact that the terms of the cover are clearly explained. 
Its therefore for the consumer to read the policy terms and ensure they understand them, 
obviously making any enquiries to the potential insurer, if needs be. 
So, whilst I do understand and sympathise with Mrs Ds position, theres nothing to indicate 
to me that Agria has done anything wrong in refusing to deal with Mrs Ds claim since her 
liability as in financial loss for vet fees occurred after its policy expired. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman