DRN-2739324
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Covea Insurance plc dealt with a claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs Ms car was damaged when she lost control of her car due to icy 
conditions. She first collided with a set of trees and then bounced back into the road where a 
collision with another car occurred. 
Mrs M says Covea told the other driver it accepted liability before investigating the claim. 
She says there were independent witnesses which Covea didnt contact. Mrs M feels Covea 
didnt change their decision in order to fit with their error. Mrs M said her account didnt 
match the one provided by the other driver. She was expecting to hear back from Coveas 
compliance department, but they decided the claim without telling her. 
Covea accepted that it originally admitted liability before it should have. But it said it had 
correctly settled the claim. It had treated the two incidents: the first where Mrs M collided into 
trees and was left facing the wrong way after skidding on black ice  and another 
immediately after involving a third party vehicle (TPV) colliding with Mrs Ms car  as one 
claim. Covea said by recording the incidents as one, the future impact on Mrs Ms policy 
would be less than if it recorded it as two incidents  which it was entitled to do. Covea said 
the first claim would have been recorded as a fault claim in any event. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought 
Covea had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. So she didnt ask it to do any more. 
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary she believes the other driver wouldnt have made a claim as 
this wasnt their intention at the scene. But because Covea admitted liability, they changed 
their mind. Mrs M feels the other driver had ample time to stop and that the witnesses Covea 
didnt contact may have supported her account. So she doesnt agree that the recording of 
the claim by Covea as a fault claim is fair to her. 
Mrs M says she didnt receive a letter Covea sent confirming its decision to settle the claim 
as a fault claim.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Ms policy with Covea has a term Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies, 
This term allows Covea to take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means 
Covea might make a decision Mrs M disagrees with, but the policy allows Covea to do this. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated is 
customer fairly when applying it. 
Mrs M says she exchanged details with the other driver at the scene and has details of a 
driver she see regularly on her journey to work in their car. She says they would have 
witnessed the incident as Mrs M had overtaken them just before it happened. She says the 
car that collided with hers was behind this witness. So Mrs M feels they should have had 
ample time to avoid the collision. 
Mrs M says there was a further witness, but after making enquiries she hasnt been able to 
find them. However, Mrs M feels this is due to the way Covea handled the investigation into 
the claim. 
Covea didnt contact the witness Mrs M has details of. It said due to the circumstances 
described by both parties, it didnt believe contacting the witness would make a difference to 
the outcome. The other drivers insurer said Mrs Ms car made contact after it bounced back 
from the trees onto the road. They said their driver was correctly proceeding. Mrs M provided 
a written statement and discussed the circumstances with Covea through a series of calls. 
Covea also discussed the circumstances with the other driver. 
Mrs M explained that she wasnt aware of the collision with the other driver, but was aware 
of their car being there when she got out of her car. Mrs M confirmed that she wasnt sure 
what happened. But she disputed the other drivers version of events and believes the other 
driver could have avoided the claim.
I understand Mrs M says that the witness was behind Mrs M at the time of collision. So she 
wanted Covea to investigate why the other driver didnt stop in time if they were - in her 
opinion - two cars behind. In her written statement, Mrs M wrote that the witness driver must 
have gone past her at the time of the collision. 
Covea spoke to the other driver to ask about the whereabouts of the witness vehicle. They 
believed they had turned off at a crossroads before the incident as they didnt recall seeing 
their vehicle when the incident occurred. 
Given the conditions and circumstances as described, and the fact that Mrs M couldnt 
recollect the impact with the other car, I think Coveas position that it would be difficult to 
defend liability if the matter went to court was fair and based on its experience in handling 
and settling claims. I dont think its decision not to pursue a witness statement  given the 
uncertainty of their presence when the incident occurred - along with the other information 
available to it was unreasonable. 
I know Mrs M believes if Covea hadnt prematurely accepted liability, the other driver 
wouldnt have claimed against her policy. However, the damage to the other drivers car 
resulted in it being uneconomical to repair. And the claim involved a claim for personal injury. 
So while I cant say for sure, I think on balance its likely that the other driver would have 
made a claim anyway, despite telling Mrs M at the scene this wasnt their intention. In any 
event, it isnt unusual for a person to change their mind about pursuing a claim after an 
incident. 
As Mrs M claimed for damage to her car caused by the first collision not involving the other 
driver, the claim would have always been recorded as a fault claim  as there was no third 
party at fault to recover Mrs Ms claim costs from. If Covea had decided to record the incidents as separate claims, this would have had a greater impact on future premiums for 
Mrs M as the number of claims would have been more. 
We asked Covea to seek a legal opinion on the decision it made regarding liability, which it 
did and this was in agreement with their approach. 
I understand Mrs M is upset that Covea reached its decision when shed asked it to 
reconsider and was awaiting their reply. Although Covea accepted liability before it had 
properly investigated, I think its shown that its decision was reached reasonably after its 
discussion with both parties. So in this case, I dont think its decision not to contact the 
witness was unfair to Mrs M, when considering the other available information provided by 
the two parties involved. This means I think Covea has correctly recorded the claim as a 
fault claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman