DRN-2870037
The complaint
Mr G complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc regarding damage sustained to his 
television set. He believes this was caused by agents of Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(Domestic & General) and he wants Domestic & General to repair the damage to his 
television. 
What happened
Mr G held household insurance with Domestic & General. 
He moved home in summer 2020. After moving, he noted that an aerial conductor on his 
television was broken. He contacted Domestic & General and arranged for a repair to be 
carried out under his policy. Mr G understood that his television would be inspected in his 
home, so left it wall mounted. 
On the day of the appointment, agents arrived at Mr Gs home and explained that they were 
taking the television away for repair. Mr G says he removed it from the wall mounting, and it 
was put into the back of their van. He says that a towel was put over the television and a 
strap put around it, which was then ratcheted tight to hold the television against the van wall. 
Around two weeks later, Mr G was contacted by the engineers to say that the television was 
fixed and would be returned to him.
It was returned around 12 August 2020. Mr G was not home at the time and his family 
member took receipt of the television. It was placed into a room of his home, on a sofa. Mr G 
says that a plastic film was around the edge of the television.
Due to Mr Gs work pattern, and having just moved, it was around two weeks later when he 
remounted the television onto the wall, and then removed the plastic film. He then noticed 
scratches and damage to the front edge of the television, including one area where it looked 
as though the surface had been rubbed away in a stripe. 
Mr G thought that this damage must have been sustained whilst with the repairers and 
contacted Domestic & General. He submitted a complaint. 
Domestic & General sent Mr G its final response in October 2020. It did not uphold his 
complaint and said that there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the agents had 
caused the damage. It said that, due to the time taken for Mr G to observe the damage, it 
considered that it was more likely caused at his home rather than by the repairers.
Mr G did not accept this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that she thought the damage more likely did occur with the repairers and she thought 
that Domestic & General ought to repair the damage. She noted that there was no evidence 
of the condition of the television before or after the repair to help determine when the 
damage was sustained. She thought that Domestic & General ought to repair, or pay for the 
repair of, the television, and also ought to pay Mr G £100 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Domestic & General has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that there is a lack of evidence, for example photographs or a written record of 
inspection, of the condition of the television when it was received for repair, when it had 
been repaired, and when it was being transported back to Mr G. This evidence would have 
been useful and could have helped clarify when the damage occurred. 
There is no suggestion that the damage was present before the first repair, and Mr G has 
described the way the television was transported and how it was wrapped upon its return.
I consider that the damage which now appears looks consistent with being incurred during 
transit, if transported in the way Mr G described. 
Domestic & General has argued that because it took Mr G around two weeks to notice the 
damage, and because the television had been remounted on the wall before he noticed the 
damage, this suggests that the damage was sustained after it was returned to him. I do not 
agree and find Mr Gs account of the reasons for not immediately checking the television 
plausible and it is consistent that he would not remove protective wrapping until after 
remounting the television in order to ensure that damage was not sustained. 
I therefore agree with the investigators view that the damage most likely occurred while the 
television was in the care of the repairers, or in transit away from, or back to, Mr G.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I agree with the investigators view that Domestic & General 
should repair, or pay for the repair of, the dents and scratches on the front of Mr Gs 
television. 
I also agree that Domestic & General ought to pay Mr G £100 compensation for his 
inconvenience. This is in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Arrange for the repair of the dents and scratches to the front of Mr Gs television;
Alternatively, Domestic & General may elect to pay Mr G to arrange a repair 
privately; and
Pay to Mr G £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman