DRN-2595182
The complaint
Mr W complains about the rate he was offered when he applied for a personal loan with 
Sainsburys Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr W said that hed applied for a personal loan with Sainsburys which was advertised at
2.9%, but he was offered a much higher rate. He said that he knew the advertised rate only
had to be offered to the majority of applicants, but he said he couldnt understand why he
wouldnt be in the top 50% of applicants, in terms of creditworthiness.
Mr W said he now had marks on his credit file from the application which made it more
difficult to get credit elsewhere. He said hed got the loan he wanted from a different lender,
but he wanted Sainsburys to apologise and compensate him.
Sainsburys said that 2.9% was a representative rate, so it wasnt offered to every customer.
Mr W had been offered 4.3%, which was influenced by the details he supplied on his
application, information from his credit file, and Sainsburys own lending criteria. It didnt
think it had done anything wrong. And Sainsburys said it wouldnt remove the credit search
from Mr Ws credit file, as this was a genuine application for a loan.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she understood it was
disappointing not to be offered the headline rate, but Sainsburys can apply its own criteria to
its lending as long as those criteria arent discriminatory. And there was nothing here to
suggest they were, so our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had broken any rules or been
unfair. Because this was a genuine application for credit, and because the rate Mr W saw
before he applied wasnt guaranteed, she wouldnt ask Sainsburys to remove the search
from his credit file.
Mr W said he was past caring about the loan now. But he wanted to know about Sainsburys
contribution to the long time it took to resolve his complaint. He said he understood it had
failed to supply the complaint file on time, and so it had caused a further three week delay.
He said hed been told there was a firm deadline for getting the complaint file from
Sainsburys, and wed go ahead without the file if it wasnt received by then. And he also
understood it hadnt been received by this deadline.
Our investigator said that Sainsburys was working through file requests in the order they
were received, and she felt it had kept us in touch with progress.
Mr W said he wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, including the issue about
delays in resolving it caused by Sainsburys.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
First, Ill consider Mr Ws complaint about the interest rate he was offered when he 
applied for a loan with Sainsburys. Like our investigator, I cant see anything to make 
me think that Sainsburys has made a mistake here, or done anything unfair. It has 
assessed Mr Ws application against its own criteria, and offered him a rate a little 
over the representative rate.
I know that Mr W thinks that this is a bait and switch offer, but I havent seen 
anything to make me think that.
Mr W also wanted our service to consider Sainsburys delay in responding to our file 
request. Mr W said that hed been told that we would go ahead with a decision if 
Sainsburys didnt reply by the deadline wed given it.
I know it has taken some time to resolve this issue for Mr W. Our service has dealt 
with the delay here as a service complaint, separately to my decision on the merits of 
his complaint. But Mr W wants me to look at any delay caused by Sainsburys, as 
part of his complaint.
Before this complaint reached me for a decision, I can see that Mr W received a 
response to his service complaint. That explained that it isnt our usual process to 
make a decision without receiving a banks complaint file. The ombudsman who 
considered Mr Ws service complaint explained that it would be wrong for us not to 
give a business proper opportunity to submit its evidence and arguments, much as 
we wouldnt close a file if we didnt hear from the consumer after an initial request for 
information.
Sainsburys was asked for its business file on 7 July 2020. We asked for it to send 
the file by 21 July. It didnt arrive by then. We asked for the file again on 23 July. 
Sainsburys replied on 3 August, saying it had a backlog of requests from our service, 
and was working through those in the order they had been received. It sent the 
business file three days later, on 6 August, just over four weeks after our initial 
request and 12 working days after wed normally expect to get it.
I dont think that Sainsburys handling of this complaint and, in particular, the timing of 
its responses to our service, changes the outcome of Mr Ws complaint about the 
APR offered on his loan. And, as Mr Ws loan application was genuine, I agree with 
the investigator there is no need for reference to it to be removed from his credit file.
I make no decision here on whether issues which arise while our service is 
investigating a complaint could, in other circumstances, be taken into account as part 
of the resolution of the complaint. Its not for me to set out our services overarching 
policy on this issue. That policy reflects our services approach on whether the 
handling of a complaint by a financial business is something we can look into, 
following a legal judgement from 2017 that Mr W is now familiar with.
But as a matter of fact, in this instance, Im satisfied that this policy question does not 
arise, because this issue has not affected Mr Ws overall position. I note in particular 
that nothing turns on the timing of resolving this complaint now for Mr W. He has told 
us that he has obtained a loan elsewhere, and he also said that hes past caring 
about this issue.But Mr W has also said he wants our service to consider, as a discrete issue, the 
delay that he says Sainsburys caused to the resolution of his complaint, because it 
took some time to provide its business file to our service.
Our service has already directed Mr Ws attention to the judgment I referred to 
above, about the scope of our services powers to investigate issues. Mr W has 
commented, and Ive read Mr Ws arguments on that with interest. However, I am of 
the view that our service is not able to consider a discrete complaint from Mr W about 
a delay by Sainsburys in providing documentation to our service, as part of resolving 
his loan complaint here. Thats because its my view that what Sainsburys was 
doing, when it supplied that documentation to us, wasnt carrying out a regulated 
activity (in providing Mr W with a financial service), or an ancillary activity in 
connection with such a regulated activity.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides sent brief replies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said that he had got bored with this some time ago. His view was that my decision was 
rubbish, but he couldnt be bothered to argue. 
Sainsburys said that it had no further comment on the decision to offer a higher APR, as it 
considered this was covered clearly and fairly in the provisional decision. 
Sainsburys wanted to correct one minor point, which was that its reply to our service 
apologising for the delay in providing its business file was sent earlier than Id said, on 24 
July 2020 not 3 August 2020. I can see that this email was sent on that date, and I apologise 
to Sainsburys for that oversight on my part. 
Sainsburys also mentioned the additional work it was doing to make sure our service was 
aware of any delays in providing files, and said that if Mr W had been a vulnerable customer, 
it wouldve prioritised his case and replied sooner.  
Sainsburys said that it would have liked to have responded sooner, but in the circumstances 
at that time it responded as quickly as possible. Sainsburys closed by saying it agreed with 
the comments made about this aspect of the complaint.
Ive considered these comments from both sides. I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws first complaint point about the interest rate on 
the loan he was offered by Sainsburys. And our service cant consider Mr Ws second 
complaint point, a discrete complaint by Mr W about delays by Sainsburys in providing 
information to our service in order to resolve his first complaint point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman