DRN-3713027
The complaint
Mrs A, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it provided loans she couldnt afford to repay.
  
What happened
Mrs A was advanced five home collected loans between August 2017 and September 2021. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 04/08/2017 18/01/2018 33 £15.00
2 £300.00 18/01/2018 21/09/2018 33 £15.00
3 £200.00 22/06/2018 25/01/2019 33 £10.00
gap in lending
4 £400.00 21/06/2021 outstanding 35 £20.00
5 £400.00 17/09/2021 outstanding 35 £20.00
Mrs A has had some problems repaying her final two loans and based on the statement of 
account provided by Morses the outstanding balance were passed to a third-party collection 
agency in May 2022. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 4 and 5 were 
running at the same time Mrs As weekly commitment was £40. 
Following Mrs As complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold her complaint. Mrs As representative didnt agree with the outcome and 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed what had happened and concluded Mrs As complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. She explained based on the gap in lending of over two years between loans 3 and 4 
that in her view Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Mrs A was likely to 
be able to afford the credit commitments that Mrs A was due to make. She also couldnt 
conclude the lending was obviously harmful or unsustainable for Mrs A. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mrs As representative didnt agree with the findings. It said:
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
Later on, Mrs As representative said (verbatim):
We discussed this with the client and we would like an Ombudsman to make a FD is 
that the clients credit deteriorated throughout the borrowing. By the 3rd loan 
application the client had a Default worth £2132.00, and multiple late payments in 
the 3 months prior. The client would like a refund of interest from loan 4 onwards.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs A could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs As 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs A. These factors include:
Mrs A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs A.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs A could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs A was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs As complaint.
Loans 1  3
For these loans Morses carried out the same type of check. For all of these loans Mrs A declared she had an income of between £300 and £400 per 
week. She also declared her weekly expenditure was between £155 and £190 per week. 
Morses was therefore aware that Mrs A had between £145 and £213 per week disposable 
income. 
These levels of disposable income were sufficient for Mrs A to be able to afford the largest 
weekly repayment due to Morses of £25. Morses, couldve reasonably concluded that these 
loans were affordable for Mrs A.
Before loan 1 was approved, in addition to the above checks, Morses also carried out a 
credit search and it has provided the Financial Ombudsman with the results that it was 
provided with. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Mrs A 
may be able to view on the credit report that he can obtain. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information such as the 
number of active credit accounts. But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and 
then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these results, there is some 
adverse information such as Morses being aware of a default, but this had been recorded 
around 60 months before this loan was approved, so I dont think that wouldve given Morses 
cause for concern. 
However, Morses was aware that Mrs A had, 8 months before loan 1 being approved had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against her for £3,196. This is quite close to the 
loan being approved and so Ive thought about this carefully. 
However, in this case, typically CCJs, is the end of a process for recovering a debt so its 
quite likely the debt owed on the CCJ was historic. In addition, there wasnt anything in the 
credit checks that highlighted to Morses that Mrs A was either having current and immediate 
financial difficulties or anything else that in my view wouldve prompted it to have carried out 
further checks or to have declined the loan. I dont think the CCJ on its own is enough to 
uphold this complaint. 
It also was aware that there were four active credit accounts with a current outstanding 
balance of around £1,300. But there wasnt anything else to suggest that Mrs A was using 
either high cost short term loans or that the outstanding credit commitments werent being 
managed correctly. 
Overall, I dont think the credit checks wouldve alerted Morses to either have declined the 
loan application or to have prompted it to make further enquires with Mrs A. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mrs A had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in this lending relationship and there didnt appear to have 
been any repayment problems when Mrs A repaid her loans, I think it was reasonable for 
Morses to have relied on the information Mrs A provided which showed the loan repayments 
were affordable. Ive also thought about the fact that some of these loans overlapped but even taking into 
account the higher weekly repayments as a result of this the loans still looked affordable. So, 
this doesnt change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
Ive also noted what Mrs As representative says about the deteriorating state of her credit 
file at the point loan 3 was approved. Ive considered this but it doesnt change my mind 
about the outcome Ive reached. I say this because, Morses wasnt required to carry out a 
credit search before each loan was approved and as one wasnt carried out before loan 3 
was approved then I cant say it wouldve been aware of any other adverse credit file data 
that may have been reported by other lenders. 
Equally, I appreciate that Mrs A has provided copies of her bank statements, but I dont yet 
think it had reached the stage where Morses was required to start verifying the information 
she had provided and so Morses wouldnt have been aware of any of the information visible 
in her statements. 
Im therefore not upholding Mrs As complaint about these loans. 
Loans 4 and 5
There was a gap in lending of around 29 months between loan 3 being repaid and loan 4 
being advanced. In my view, this gap was long enough for Morses to have treated Mrs Ms 
application afresh, meaning as if Mrs A were a new customer. This has implications for the 
level of checks Morses may have been expected to carry out. In short, loan 4, becomes loan 
1, in a new chain of lending. 
For all of these Morses carried out the same sorts of checks as it had done so for loans 1  
3. Mrs A declared she had an income of at least £375 and £400 per week. She also declared 
her weekly expenditure was between £299 and £348. Mrs As disposable income was 
sufficient to be able to afford the largest weekly repayment due to Morses of £40.
Now, this is quite close, in my mind to making at least loan 5 unaffordable given Mrs A 
wouldnt have been left that much each week. But, given it was still early on in the lending 
relationship and what the credit check results showed  which Ill discuss below I think it was 
just about reasonable for Morses to have believed these loans were affordable for Mrs A. 
Before loan 4 Morses once again carried out a credit search and Ive considered the results. 
It was aware of the CCJ  which remained outstanding but had been recorded 54 months 
before loan 4. 
Morses also knew that Mrs As most recent default had been recorded 64 months prior to 
loan 4. In my view, the CCJ and the default were historic debts and too far removed from the 
start date to suggest that Mrs A was having financial difficulties. 
Morses also knew that Mrs A had four active credit accounts with a balance and that none of 
these were high cost credit loans. It was also aware that Mrs As current monthly 
commitment to these lenders was around £200. 
Ive thought about this amount and how it impacts Morses affordability assessment. 
However, as part of the assessment Mrs A declared she had other credit commitments that 
she was servicing at a rate of around £200 per month. So, I think its likely, in this case, 
Morses was aware of the other credit commitments and factored these into the affordability 
check  and even doing so the loans still looked affordable. There wasnt in my view, anything else in the credit search results that may have led Morses 
to have either carried out further checks or to have declined the lending. 
Given it was still quite early on in this lending relationship and there didnt appear to have 
been any repayment problems when Mrs A was repaying loan 4 at the point loan 5 was 
approved, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on the information Mrs A 
provided which showed the loan repayments were affordable. 
Ive also thought about the fact these loans overlapped but even taking into account the 
higher weekly repayments as a result of this the loans still looked affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
Finally, there wasnt anything else that was apparent to Morses which may have made it 
realise these loans were unsustainable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs As 
complaint about loans 4 and 5 and therefore, Im also not upholding Mrs As complaint.
As far as I am aware, an outstanding balance remains due and so Mrs A may wish to 
contact the third-party collection agency to discuss a way forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman