DRN-3727453
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a van that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).
What happened
On 13 November 2020 Mr A took out a conditional sale agreement with PSA for a used van. 
The van was just over three years old and had travelled approximately 38,344 miles. The 
cash price was £16,626. The dealer provided 12 months extended warranty with the van. 
Mr A told us that an engine warning light came on a week after he got the van. He says he 
also discovered the heater, demister, headlight and autolocking werent working, and that 
there were holes in the floor covering which had been covered with a mat. 
Mr A complained to the dealer, who advised him to book the van in with a local garage for 
any mechanical issues to be fixed under the warranty. He says he waited a long time for an 
appointment. He says it reached the point where the van wouldnt go above 50 miles per 
hour, coming to a halt at least four times a day. 
Mr A says the van was immobilised at home from 8 March 2021, and that this meant he was 
unable to work. The van was at the garage from 26 March to 14 April 2021. There was a 
delay whilst they waited for parts. The garage fitted four new injectors, pipes and fixing, as 
well as a heater blower resistor. The cost of these repairs was covered by the extended 
warranty.
Mr A has told us that, as soon as he collected the van from the garage, a dashboard 
reminder came on saying it needed a major service. He believes this was due in August 
2020, and that it should have been carried out before he got the van. Mr A also thought there 
was an outstanding recall on the vehicle when he got it. 
Mr A complained to PSA about the problems with the van and his loss of earnings. In 
response, PSA said the holes in the floor covering had been present when hed inspected 
the van before signing the agreement, and that theyd carried out all outstanding recalls. 
They advised him to contact the supplying dealer for further investigation of an issue with the 
mirrors.
PSA partially upheld Mr As complaint due to faults having been identified and repaired 
under warranty. They said their terms and conditions state they wont be liable for any loss of 
profit incurred if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality, but they offered him £200 for the 
disappointment with the van. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He told us hes spent around £3,000 fixing issues with the 
van and lost a total of two months work. He provided more information about this, which Ill 
briefly summarise:
Period of loss of use Details of work carried out Cost
8 March - 16 April 2021 Diagnosis of the following reported faults: £147.23
Engine light on, going into limp mode
Demister and heaters dont work
Auto lock doesnt work
Fit four new injectors, pipes and fixing, and a heater 
blower resistor (covered under warranty)-
5 - 14 May 2021 Major service 
Brake fluid change
Anti-freeze (coolant) change
Emission treatment (engine oil flush)
Check & top-up AdBlue fluid£547.97
8 - 11 June 2021 Remove and replace front brake pads and discs, 
lubricate calliper
Remove and replace rear brake pads and discs, 
lubricate calliper slides
Headlamp bulb change 
Welding repair to steering high pressure hose 
bracket£895.34
3 - 7 September 2021 Oil and filter change £148.98
27 - 30 September 2021 Replacement thermostat 
Labour £295.74
£100
8 - 17 October 2021 and 
11 - 22 November 2021Diagnosis of the following reported fault:
Radiator fluid temperature going high
Replace water pump and coolant housing (covered 
under warranty)
Replace cambelt & rollers-
-
£330.50
Mr A said that, despite repeatedly taking the van to the garage to fix issues, hes still 
experiencing the same issue that first occurred a week after he got it. He told us the engine 
warning light keeps coming on, the engine loses power and it shows low oil level. Mr A says 
his extended warranty has now expired, and hes concerned that the engine might fail. 
Our investigator contacted PSA about the faults Mr A had highlighted. PSA arranged for the 
van to be inspected by an independent engineer on 15 March 2022. The engineer concluded 
that the vehicle is faulty with defects and that these defects would not have been present at 
the point of purchase. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said she didnt think it would have been 
possible for Mr A to have covered the 40,000 miles hed travelled in the van if the faults had 
been present when he got it. So, she thought the van had been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr A, and that the expenses hed incurred since then were due to wear and 
tear.  
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case 
again, as he felt hed had to pay for too much maintenance on the van. The case has come 
to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Mr As complaint is about a van supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr As concerns about PSA.When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SoGA) is relevant to this complaint. It says where 
goods are sold in the course of a business, theres an implied term that the goods supplied 
are of satisfactory quality.
The SoGA says the quality of the goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. But it goes on to explain that this doesnt 
include things the buyer ought to have discovered when he or she examined the goods, 
before the contract was made.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In this case, I take into account that the van supplied to Mr 
A was just over three years old and had travelled approximately 38,344 miles. It cost 
£16,626, which is significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new. I also bear in mind 
that a van like this one would generally have been used for business. 
Thinking about all of this, I dont think a reasonable person would expect this van to be in 
perfect condition - I think theyd probably expect some parts to have suffered wear and tear. 
But I do think theyd still expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it 
was supplied, and to be able to drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Its not disputed that there are now faults with the van. Ive seen a copy of the independent 
engineers report dated 15 March 2022, which confirms this. The question for me to consider 
is whether the problems Mr A has experienced were due to issues that were already 
present, or underlying, at the time PSA supplied the van to him. 
Mr A has provided copies of the invoices for the work hes had done on the van, which Ive 
reviewed in detail. Ive focussed on what I consider to be the main issues in this case, based 
on the invoices Mr A provided and the dates hes told us he wasnt able to use the van. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome. 
Loss of use and costs incurred 8 March - 16 April 2021 
The invoice dated 16 April 2021 refers to diagnosis of the following faults:
Engine light, gone into limp mode
Demister and heaters dont work
Auto lock doesnt work
The cost of this diagnostic work is shown as £82.50 plus VAT. The invoice records the vans 
mileage to have been 43,405 at the time. PSA have confirmed that it needed four new 
injectors, pipes and fixing, and a heater blower resistor. 
Mr A has told us that the engine problems came to light a week after he got the van, but it 
took a long time to get an appointment for this to be investigated. Hes provided a copy of 
email correspondence with the dealer about this. Ive seen that he complained on 10 
December 2020 that the van kept giving him a warning to check the engine - and that it had 
recently stopped altogether. 
Mr A emailed the dealer again on 17 February 2021. He complained that the van was still 
giving a check engine warning and stopping  and that the heater and demister had also stopped working. He said it was dangerous to drive on the motorway because his visibility 
was reduced. 
Having reviewed these emails, Im satisfied that Mr A was having issues with the engine 
within the first month and the heater/demister had stopped working within three months. I 
consider these to be significant faults. As Mr A had less than three months and 5,000 miles 
use of the van by the time these issues came to light, I dont consider it to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I think Mr A was entitled to expect the van to be 
more durable than this. 
Ive seen evidence showing the cost of the repair in April 2021 was covered under the 
extended warranty. But I think its fair for PSA to reimburse Mr A £82.50 plus VAT for the 
diagnostic. 
The invoice dated 16 April 2021 includes a further charge of £36.02 plus VAT for: 047734 / 
Filtering. Ive seen no information as to what this charge related to, so Im unable to 
consider whether that was due to a routine maintenance issue or a fault. In the absence of 
further evidence about this, Im not persuaded that PSA should cover this cost.
The evidence Ive seen shows the van had travelled around 5,000 miles between 13 
November 2020 and 16 April 2021, so Im satisfied Mr A had some use from it during this 
period. Mr A has told us that he was unable to use the van after 8 March 2021 due to the 
problems with it. Ive seen evidence confirming the van was at the garage from 26 March 
2021 and that the work was completed on 14 April 2021. Mr A has told us that he got it back 
two days later. 
I think it would be fair for PSA to refund 20% of the monthly repayments Mr A made up to 8 
March 2021, to reflect the fact that the van wasnt functioning as it should during this period. 
And I think they should refund all the payments Mr A made for the period between 8 March 
and 16 April 2021, when he wasnt able to use it at all.
I think Mr A has been inconvenienced by these faults, because I can see he contacted the 
dealer several times and had to arrange for the problems to be diagnosed. PSA offered Mr A 
£200 to reflect his disappointment with the vehicle, which is in line with the amount I would 
have awarded if no offer had been made. So, I dont think any further award is appropriate 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr A experienced as a result of these faults. 
Ive seen no evidence showing Mr A suffered a reduction in income due to the problems with 
the van, or whether it would have been reasonable for him to obtain another vehicle for work. 
So, Im not persuaded that it would be fair for me to direct PSA to pay an additional amount 
for loss of earnings. 
Loss of use and costs incurred 5 - 14 May 2021
The invoice dated 14 May 2021 shows Mr A was charged £547.97 for the following work: 
Carry out fixed price major service
Carry out brake fluid change
Carry out anti-freeze (coolant) change
Carry out emission treatment
Check and top-up AdBlue fluid
The invoice records the vans mileage to have been 47,734. I dont find PSA to be liable for the costs shown in this invoice. I consider these to be routine 
maintenance and servicing expenses. 
Mr A says the van was due for a major service in August 2020  and that this should have 
been done before it was supplied to him. But service history is something Id expect a buyer 
to check when choosing a used vehicle, to give an indication of likely future servicing costs. 
Some vehicles will have more comprehensive service history than others - and thats often 
reflected in the price. 
Ive seen a copy of the service record, which shows a service was carried out on 17 
September 2020 when the van had covered 38,147 miles. It doesnt detail what type of 
service was carried out. If Mr A was concerned about future servicing and maintenance 
costs, I think this is something he should have checked before entering the agreement.
Loss of use and costs incurred 8 - 11 June 2021 
Ive seen an invoice dated 11 June 2021, showing Mr A paid £895.34 for the following work:
Remove front brake pads and disks, lubricate calip replace front brake pads and discs
Remove rear brake pads and discs, lubricate calip slides replace rear brake pads
Headlamp bulb change
Carry out welding repair to steering high pressure hose bracket.
Mr A feels these costs were due to the van not having been properly prepared before PSA 
supplied it to him. Ive considered this point.
Ive seen a copy of an MOT test certificate issued two days before Mr A entered the 
agreement, showing it passed with no advisories. So, I consider it most likely that the brakes 
and headlamp were working when PSA supplied the van. And I consider replacement of a 
failed light bulb to be a routine maintenance expense. 
Ive reviewed the health check report Mr A has shown us, highlighting issues with the 
brakes. This is identified with the garages job card number 12151 and records the vans 
mileage to have been 47,734. It says: 
Weve found your front discs to be 90% worn  replace discs and pads 
Weve found your rear discs to be 95% worn  urgent  replace discs and pads
We have measured your rear brake pads and found them to be over 100% worn.
I can see that the van had travelled around 9,390 miles since it was supplied to Mr A. Ive 
seen no mention in this health check report of any other issues with the brakes, apart from 
the discs and pads needing replacement due to wear. Brake discs and pads do need to be 
replaced from time to time, as they become worn through normal braking. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest there was an issue with the brakes at the time the van was supplied. 
I note that, by the time the garage issued the invoice for the work to the brakes, the van was 
recorded to have travelled 50,016 miles. So, it had travelled around 2,880 miles since the 
garage advised Mr A that all the discs and pads needed to be replaced, and that the rear set 
needed to be done urgently. I consider any additional work required, such as lubrication of 
the brake callipers, was most likely to be due to parts having worn beyond their serviceable 
life.
For these reasons, I dont find PSA to be liable for the cost of the work to the brakes. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the damage to the steering high pressure hose bracket 
was present at the time the van was supplied to Mr A. So, I consider this most likely to have 
deteriorated due to wear and tear, which isnt something PSA are liable for.
Loss of use and costs incurred 3 - 7 September 2021 
Mr A has told us he paid £148.98 on 7 September 2021. Ive seen evidence showing this 
was for an oil and filter change. This is a routine maintenance expense, which isnt 
something PSA are liable for. 
Loss of use and costs incurred 27 - 30 September 2021 
Ive seen an invoice dated 30 September 2021, confirming the cost of a replacement 
thermostat to have been £295.74. Mr A told us he also paid £100 for it to be fitted, but Ive 
seen no supporting evidence to confirm this. 
Im not persuaded that PSA are liable for these costs. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me 
that the issue with the thermostat was either present or developing when the van was 
supplied. This repair was carried out more than nine months after Mr A got the van, by which 
time it was over four years old. Unfortunately, some repairs are to be expected with a used 
vehicle of this age. In this case I think it most likely that the thermostat failed due to wear and 
tear. 
Loss of use and costs incurred 8-17 October 2021 and 11-22 November 2021
Ive seen two invoices dated 31 October 2021. One of these invoices relates to the following 
work:
Carry out repair: replace cambelt and rollers
for which Mr A was charged £330.50.
The other invoice was addressed to the extended warranty company, covering the following 
diagnostic and repair work:
Diag: Radiator fluid temperature going high
Carry out repair: replace water pump
Carry out repair: replace coolant housing. 
I appreciate these issues must have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr A. But I dont 
find PSA to be liable for any loss of use or inconvenience he experienced while this 
diagnostic and repair work was carried out. Ill explain why.
The invoices confirm the van was more than four years old and had covered 66,094 miles by 
the time this work was carried out. As Ive explained, I do think some repairs are to be 
expected with a used vehicle of this age because some parts will have deteriorated through 
normal wear and tear. 
A cambelt is expected to need replacement at least once during the lifetime of a vehicle. Ive 
seen no evidence to persuade me that this needed to be changed due to a fault that was 
present when Mr A got the van, or because it wasnt sufficiently durable. I consider this to be 
a routine maintenance cost, which isnt something PSA are liable for.
And Ive seen no evidence to suggest there was an issue with the radiator fluid temperature 
going high at the time the van was supplied. The van had travelled around 27,750 miles since Mr A got it. I dont think that would have been possible if there was an underlying issue 
with the vans water pump or cooling system when PSA supplied it. Im pleased to see the 
cost of this repair was covered by the extended warranty. But Im not persuaded that this 
was needed because the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when PSA supplied it. 
Other issues
Mr A has told us that hes still experiencing problems with the engine warning light coming 
on, losing power and a warning coming on about the oil level. Mr A says there are also holes 
in the floor covering, the autolocking system isnt working properly and the blower fan has 
stopped working. Ive considered the available evidence about these problems.
(i) Engine issues
Ive seen evidence showing the van passed an MOT test on 21 December 2021, at which 
time it had travelled 66,003 miles. Mr A sent us an email the following day, saying the engine 
warning light had come on again. He emailed us again on 30 December 2021, saying an oil 
level warning had come on. He enclosed photos of these dashboard warnings.
I appreciate Mr A feels the engine warning and engine oil lights are coming on due to a 
problem that hasnt been properly resolved throughout the time hes had the van. But Im not 
persuaded of this. Im satisfied that a repair was carried out in April 2021 to resolve an issue 
with the engine that had caused the warning light to come on. The evidence Ive seen shows 
the van travelled around 22,598 miles before the engine warning light came on again. 
Ive reviewed the independent engineers report dated 15 March 2022, at which time the van 
was noted to have travelled 78,149 miles. The report noted significant external cosmetic 
damage that renders the vehicle unsafe to be driven on a public highway. 
In relation to the engine warning light, it said:
 The examiner has considered the engine related concerns and with the stored fault 
codes related to the turbo charger and intake systems this will be relevant to the fact that 
the exhaust gases cant escape due to the damaged exhaust tailpipe  it has to be 
considered that consequential damage may be present to the engine operating condition 
due to being operated with the damaged exhaust system.
In relation to the oil, the report said:
The vehicle did not present any leaks/dripping at the time of the inspection
It is the drivers responsibility to make sure that all levels are checked and topped up 
when necessary as engine oil consumption is a normal process for engine operation.
I consider there to be a number of different and unrelated issues that could cause an engine 
warning light to come on, such as the damage to the exhaust tailpipe that was noted in the 
independent engineers report. Ive seen no evidence confirming this is due to a fault that 
was present or developing at the time the van was supplied to Mr A.
I find it most likely that the engine oil warning came on because the oil level needed topping 
up. I consider this to be a routine maintenance issue. Ive seen no evidence to show theres 
any fault here. 
Mr A has shown us a copy of an email from a local garage dated 4 July 2022, confirming the 
van was taken in for further diagnosis and repair work. The email says the garage replaced the Bsi/body control module, actuator and cooling fan pack. It says: The check engine light 
is also in which we need to further investigate and maybe due to the egr cooler issue. 
I note that the latest repairs were carried out after Mr A had around 20 months and 40,000 
miles use of the van. The email from the garage doesnt say any of these issues would have 
been present when the van was supplied to Mr A. So, Im not persuaded that PSA are liable 
for the cost of these repairs.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that PSA need to do anything more to resolve Mr As 
complaint about the engine issues. 
(ii) Holes in the floor covering
The independent engineers report includes a photo of the flooring on the drivers side of the 
van. I can see its worn through in places. PSA say this is something theyd expect Mr A to 
have seen before he signed the agreement, but Mr A says it was covered with a mat. 
I dont find it necessary to decide whether it was reasonable to expect Mr A to have noticed 
the floor covering had worn through in places, because Im not persuaded that this meant 
the van wasnt of satisfactory quality. I bear in mind that this was a commercial vehicle - and 
that it had already had more than three years and 38,000 miles use. So, I think a reasonable 
buyer would expect a fair bit of wear and tear, especially to the flooring. 
(iii) Autolocking system not working
The independent engineers report said: the rear doors are damaged and any damage to 
the doors could have an effect on the locking system. The doors would require repair and 
correct adjustment before further investigations could take place into this concern.
Although I can see Mr A told the garage about an issue with the autolocking system in April 
2021, Ive seen no evidence that any fault was found. In the absence of further evidence 
about this, Im unable to consider this issue any further.
(iv) Blower fan not working
The independent engineers report states:
the heater blower system is inoperative requiring a new electronic resistor on the 
16/04/21 with the vehicle having covered some 43,405 miles confirming that an electronic 
component has failed which would not have been in this condition at the point of sale.
I dont dispute that the electronic component failed after the van was supplied to Mr A. But 
as Ive explained, Im satisfied hed only had around three months and 5,000 miles use of 
the van before complaining about this issue. And for that reason, I dont consider it to have 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Bearing in mind the price, I think Mr A was 
entitled to expect greater durability from this van. 
PSA confirmed that the heater blower resistor was replaced in April 2021 under the 
extended warranty. But I dont consider that repair to have properly resolved the underlying 
issue here, because Mr A emailed us on 30 December 2021 saying the blower fan had 
stopped working again.
For these reasons, I think it would be fair for PSA to fix the issue with the blower fan. For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK 
Limited to:
Reimburse Mr A £82.50 plus VAT for the diagnostic testing detailed in the invoice 
dated 16 April 2021,
Refund 20% of the amount Mr A paid under the agreement up to 8 March 2021, to 
reflect the fact that the van wasnt functioning as it should during this period,
Refund the amount Mr A paid under the agreement for the period between 8 March 
and 16 April 2021, when he wasnt able to use the van,
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year,
Fix the issue with the heater blower system.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
PSA said they had nothing further to add.
Mr A said my provisional decision covered most of the issues, but that hed like to highlight a 
few more points. Ill summarise these:
The emails and photos hed sent to the dealer showed there was an engine check 
issue from the seventh day after he got the van. Mr A provided further copies of 
these.
Despite the van being taken to the garage every four to six weeks throughout the 12-
month warranty period, the issue with the engine check warning wasnt resolved. 
On 30 August 2022 Mr A had taken the van to a private garage, who said an EGR 
valve fault needed to be fixed to clear the engine check warning. He provided a photo 
of a receipt for a replacement valve.  
Mr A had raised a concern about the van going into limp mode within the warranty 
period. This was recently found to have been due to a turbo charger issue, which has 
now been fixed. Mr A provided a photo of a hand-held device, showing a date of 18 
May 2022 and listing the following faults:
oBuilt-in Systems Interface (BSI/SSI)
oLeft motor-fan control or low speed control of motor-fan unit
oTurbocharger.
The engine check sign came on during the warranty period, after the last garage visit 
when the timing belt was changed. Mr A said hed been left with no option but to take 
the van to a private garage, which had cost him £2,000 for parts and £750 in labour 
charges. 
Mr A provided a further copy of the email hed previously shown us from a local 
garage, dated 4 July 2022, saying the BSI/body control module, actuator, and cooling 
fan pack had been replaced. He provided a photo of an invoice for that work, dated 
18 May 2022, listing parts and labour totalling £1,450.
Mr A feels the independent engineer should have carried out computerised checks 
on the van, rather than just physical checks. And that this resulted in a lack of 
evidence as to the issue with the exhaust pipe. He said in fact the EGR valve had 
been faulty and needed to be replaced. Mr A feels the dealer hadnt done proper checks on the van before it was supplied to 
him. He also expressed concern that the dealer hadnt used a garage that was 
certified by the manufacturer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr A for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision in detail. I want 
to reassure him that Ive given careful thought to all the information and evidence hes 
provided. But Ive seen no new evidence to persuade me that I should depart from my 
provisional findings. 
In my provisional decision, I said I was satisfied that Mr A was having issues with the engine 
within the first month - and that I think he was entitled to expect the van to last longer than 
that without major issues. I explained what more I thought PSA should do to put that right.
I also said Im satisfied that a repair was carried out in April 2021 to resolve an issue that 
had caused the warning to come on - which involved fitting four new injectors, pipes and 
fixing.
Ive seen evidence confirming the engine check warning was showing again in December 
2021. Mr A says it happened sooner than this. Hes told us that this same warning came 
back on after the last visit to the garage under the warranty, when the cambelt was changed. 
He says a private garage advised him that this warning was due to a faulty EGR valve that 
needed to be replaced. 
But Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the fault with the EGR valve was related to the 
issue repaired in April 2021. By comparing the invoices for that repair and the cambelt 
change in October 2021, I can see the van covered over 22,500 miles in this period. I think it 
most likely that the engine check warning would have come on sooner than this if the repair 
in April 2021 hadnt been carried out properly.
Mr A feels the independent engineers inspection in March 2022 should have included 
computerised checks, as this would have enabled him to diagnose the fault with the EGR 
valve. But this wouldnt have changed my decision. The engineers report shows that, by 
March 2022, the van had covered around 40,000 miles since PSA supplied it. And Ive seen 
no evidence to show the EGR valve fault was present or developing when Mr A got the van.
Ive considered the additional invoice Mr A has provided for the costs he incurred in May 
2022, relating to replacement of the BSI/body control module, actuator, and cooling fan 
pack. My provisional decision set out the reasons why I didnt consider PSA to be liable for 
the cost of that work, so I wont repeat that here. The invoice doesnt provide any more 
information about these issues, so my view remains the same. 
Mr A has provided evidence showing a fault with the turbo was also diagnosed in May 2022. 
But as Ive explained in my provisional decision, I note that hed had around 20 months and 
40,000 miles use of the van by the time these latest repairs were carried out. Ive seen no 
evidence to show the problem with the turbo was present or developing at the time PSA 
supplied the van to him. So, Im not persuaded that theyre liable for the cost of this repair.
I appreciate Mr A feels the dealer should have used a garage thats been approved or 
certified by the manufacturer. Unless this was something Mr A was promised before he 
entered the agreement, theres no requirement for the dealer or PSA to use a particular type of garage for servicing and repairs. Ive seen no evidence that this was something Mr A was 
promised, so this doesnt change my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Limited 
to:
Reimburse Mr A £82.50 plus VAT for the diagnostic testing detailed in the invoice 
dated 16 April 2021,
Refund 20% of the amount Mr A paid under the agreement up to 8 March 2021, to 
reflect the fact that the van wasnt functioning as it should during this period,
Refund the amount Mr A paid under the agreement for the period between 8 March 
and 16 April 2021, when he wasnt able to use the van,
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year,
Fix the issue with the heater blower system.
If PSA consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mr A how much theyve taken off. They should also provide Mr A with a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman