DRN-4166425
The complaint
Mr K complained that his claim for damage caused by a moth infestation was unfairly 
declined by Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) under his home contents policy. 
He also thought his claim was poorly handled. Mr K had representation during the claim, but 
for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr K.
What happened
Mr K made a claim for damage caused to his carpets. AIC appointed a surveyor to review 
and validate the claim. The surveyor provided a report to AIC which concluded that moths 
had caused significant damage to the carpets throughout the house.
On reviewing the report, AIC decided to decline the claim. It said that when Mr K made the 
claim, hed provided information that showed the problem had been ongoing for over a year. 
So, AIC declined the claim due to a general exclusion in the policy for damage arising from 
gradual causes or wear and tear.
Mr K thinks this decision is unfair. He believes his vulnerable circumstances and his 
inexperience has led to him not understanding the cause of the marks on his carpet. He said 
when he did realise what was causing the issue he put in his claim. He wants his claim to be 
paid in full.
AIC acknowledged it couldve handled the claim better. It said, the Agent you spoke to 
shouldve explained we would need to have a report before we can make a decision. AIC 
paid Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought there was evidence Mr K 
knew about the damage for some time and hadnt met his obligation under the policy to tell 
AIC about the damage at his earliest opportunity. She thought AIC had been fair to say the 
damage had occurred gradually, so was reasonable to apply the exclusion from the policy. 
She agreed the service received couldve been better, but she thought the £150 
compensation already paid was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr K disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ks circumstances has made him vulnerable and hes had a really difficult 
time. Unfortunately, Im not able to make things easier for him as Im not able to uphold this 
complaint. So, I wont be asking AIC to settle the claim. I know this will be a real 
disappointment, but Ill explain my reasoning in reaching this decision.
I think AIC has been fair in applying the general exclusion clause for gradual causes or wear 
and tear. I appreciate Mr Ks vulnerable circumstances may possibly have led to him 
providing inaccurate information as to when exactly the start of the damage was noticed. 
However, I do think there is sufficient evidence that the damage had been ongoing for some 
time. On at least two separate occasions, Mr K informed AIC that the problem had been 
ongoing for over a year.
I appreciate Mr K said he didnt know what was causing the damage at first. I can 
understand this, as Im not sure everyone would identify immediately that the cause of the 
damage was moths. However, the policy clearly states, when you know you may have to 
claim under this policy, you must tell us at your earliest opportunity. I think even if Mr K 
didnt know the exact cause of the damage, he wouldve still known there was damage, so 
he shouldve reported this to AIC much sooner than he did. Then, I think AIC couldve 
investigated it and identified the cause. This wouldve allowed some interventions to be put 
in place to mitigate further loss before the moth infestation spread further through the house.
As AIC werent afforded the opportunity to mitigate the loss, I think it has been fair in relying 
on the exclusion cause for the reason I set out.
Ive reviewed the policy to see if there is any peril outlined in the policy that would cover Mr K 
for the damage hes suffered. But, unfortunately, as with many policies, they dont cover 
every single eventuality, but instead cover specific risks such as theft, flood or accidental 
damage. I cant see that there is any other part of the policy Mr K could claim for this loss. I 
think if the loss was presented to AIC as soon as it was observed (possibly before the cause 
was known), then it wouldve been likely the claim would fall under accidental loss as it was 
unexpected and sudden in nature.
However, as the loss has been ongoing for some time, for the reason I have set out I think 
AIC has been fair to decline the claim. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive also considered how the case has been handled. I think AIC has investigated the loss 
thoroughly, but it perhaps set out the wrong expectation for the process at the start of the 
claim. I think it has apologised for this and in paying £150 compensation, I think it has fairly 
assessed the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K. I would have awarded a 
similar amount myself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman