DRN-4296792
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs J was cold called by scammers claiming to be the police from a different part of the 
country. They said theyd arrested Mrs Js carer, who had stolen Mrs Js ID and bank cards. 
Mrs J did not have a carer and had not lost any ID or cards. Mrs J pointed out that she 
wasnt from that part of the country, so the scammers pretended to transfer her to a more 
local police department.
The scammers told Mrs J that the person theyd arrested was working with her Santander 
bank branch. They asked Mrs J to join their covert police operation, and persuaded her to 
withdraw £5,000 in cash from the branch then read them the serial numbers. They said the 
cash was fake and sent a courier to collect it, saying theyd reimburse her. The courier had 
no uniform or identification and said they couldnt show Mrs J their police vehicle as theyd 
parked some distance away.
The following day, the scammers called again and told Mrs J another local branch of hers 
was corrupt, this time with a different bank Ill refer to as L. They persuaded her to withdraw 
£8,000 cash from her L account and hand it to them.
The scammers instructed Mrs J to mislead the banks and tell them she was going to gift the 
cash to family. Both banks warned Mrs J about scams, and between the two of them asked 
her a long series of questions. For example, L asked whether anyone had asked her to 
make the withdrawal, whether someone had asked her to report back after, and whether 
someone was going to collect the cash later, which to each Mrs J answered no.
Santander didnt think they were liable for Mrs Js loss. She came to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs Js 
representatives didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs J fell victim to a scam, and so she has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for her, and I appreciate why she feels that her money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammers who are primarily responsible 
for what happened, and who really owe Mrs J her money back. But I can only consider what 
Santander did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and 
provided, I cant fairly hold Santander liable for Mrs Js loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs J authorised the withdrawal. So although she didnt intend for the 
money to end up with scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations she is liable for 
the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Santander had an obligation to follow her 
instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises them to make. 
Santander should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud 
or scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Santander should 
have done more in Mrs Js case.
Santander did talk to Mrs J about scams and asked some relevant questions, such as about 
whether she was under pressure, whether anyone had asked her to make the withdrawal, 
and whether shed been asked to mislead the bank. But I cant see that they sufficiently drew 
Mrs Js attention to this particular type of scam or probed this payment sufficiently with her.
However, even if Santander had given better warnings or asked further open questions 
about this withdrawal, I cant say its most likely that this wouldve prevented Mrs Js loss. L 
also gave Mrs J written and verbal warnings about scams the following day, and they drew 
her attention to this very type of scam, noting that scammers may pretend to be the police, 
the police wont ask you to withdraw money, and that scammers will tell you to lie to staff. 
But Mrs J then misled L, too. Mrs J maintained her story across rounds of warnings and 
questioning with two different banks, even when warned and questioned about this type of 
scam, and even after having time to sleep on it and reflect between her withdrawals with 
Santander and L. She promised the scammers not to divulge any details to her banks. And 
Ive not seen anything which suggests she was open to being persuaded by the bank. With 
all that in mind, I cannot reasonably conclude that Mrs J wouldve changed her mind with 
further questioning. And even with further questioning, if Mrs J was simply adamant that she 
preferred to gift the money in cash, then there wasnt much Santander could reasonably do. 
Neither banks branch staff uncovered anything concerningly suspicious, and it doesnt look 
like Santander had a sufficient enough basis on which to call the police on Mrs J.
I should also explain that even if I thought further intervention would have most likely made a 
difference, I still dont think I could fairly hold Santander liable for the loss in this case. Mrs J 
was told inconsistent and highly implausible things by the scammers, and she didnt take any 
reasonable actions to check what she was being told. She was given scam warnings and 
was asked relevant questions by two banks, but misled them both. I cant see that Mrs J had 
any reasonable basis to believe what she was being told, whereas some of the things the 
scammers told her should have reasonably alerted her to the fact that they were not who 
they said they were. By disregarding all these signs and handing her money to unidentified 
strangers in the way she did, Mrs J failed to do what a reasonable person would be expected 
to, and acted with serious disregard to obvious risks. So Im afraid that Mrs Js actions here 
were negligent to such a degree that it seems unfair to hold Santander responsible at all.Ive considered what Santander did to try to recover Mrs Js money after she told them about 
the scam. Unfortunately, because Mrs J withdrew the money in cash and handed it to 
someone, theres nothing more Santander could do to recover it. I hope that the authorities 
are able to apprehend the scammers and recover Mrs Js money.
Lastly, Mrs Js representatives referred to another case, and I understand why they thought 
to do so. As they know, we look at each case on its individual merits. And this case has 
substantial differences to the one they quoted. For example, here Mrs J was significantly 
younger, she gave over a different story, she didnt take any reasonable actions to check 
what the scammers told her, its clearer what the banks discussed with her and that they 
reasonably drew her attention to this type of scam, and so on.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs J, I dont think Santander should 
be held responsible for her loss. And so I cant fairly tell Santander to refund Mrs Js money 
in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mrs J to receive. But given the evidence at hand and the circumstances of this case, Im 
unable to reasonably come to another conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman