DRN-4480675
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost as the result of an
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Ms D has used a representative to bring her complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer
solely to Ms D in this decision.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the details of the scam I will not repeat them in full here. In
summary, Ms D lost £21,006.92 in an investment scam. She made four payments, the first
by credit card for £251.32 on 12 June 2019 (£244.40 was refunded), then £1,000 on 27 June
2019, £10,000 on 4 July 2019 and £10,000 on 19 July. The last three were faster payments
to an account in her own name to allow her to then trade in cryptocurrency and commodities
via company F.
She had proactively sought the investment opportunity and researched the company, finding
good reviews online. Ms D says the scammer invested significant time working with her,
helping her open the account she needed using remote access software and corresponding
with her frequently in a professional manner.
Santander says Ms Ds losses were not from the account she holds with it and she needs to
try to recover her losses from the entity she transferred the money to.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ds complaint. She thought Santander ought to have
intervened when Ms D made the last payment, but she did not think an effective intervention
would have stopped Ms D making the payment.
Ms D disagreed, saying Santander ought to have intervened on 4 July 2019 and had it done
so it would have detected the scam as there were known hallmarks of investment scams.
I reached the same conclusion as the investigator but made different findings so I issued a 
provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
Theres no dispute that Ms D made and authorised the payments. Ms D knew why she
was making the payments. At the stage she was making these payments, she believed
she was transferring money to a new account she had set up and from there she would be
able to invest via a cryptocurrency and commodities trading platform run by company F. I
dont dispute Ms D was scammed and she wasnt making the payments for the reason she
thought she was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment
Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Ms Ds instructions. So in the
first instance Ms D is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the
payments were not made to an account held by another person the principles of the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that Santander should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I do not think Santander ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain
why.
When Ms D made the first payment of £10,000 I think Santander ought to have intervened.
There were no payments of even close to that value from the account in the previous 12
months, it was unusually high in value for the account and a clear deviation from how the
account normally operated. This means I need to consider what would most likely have
happened had Santander made a proportionate intervention.
I would have expected it to ask a number of questions to ensure it understood the basic
context surrounding the payment. And as I have no reason to think Ms D would not have told
Santander she was investing in cryptocurrency and commodities it ought to have given her a
meaningful investment scam warning. However, I dont think based on the likely responses
Ms D would have given to a proportionate level of questioning Santander would have
concluded she was at risk of financial harm. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had not published any warnings about company F at
this time. And Ms D came across the company while researching investments, so there
wasnt a red flag relating to how shed learned about the company. I havent seen any
evidence that Ms D was promised unrealistic returns and she was satisfied shed done due
diligence. Shed seen positive reviews online about the company and she was reassured
because she had to provide ID to open the account. She clearly trusted the contact she had
at the company, she thought he was knowledgeable and professional and he was always
available. She was also able to see her trades on its trading platform and the scammer had
told her there was a stop loss limit on each trade so she felt protected. Ms D had received
documentation after her first trade further reassuring her the opportunity was legitimate. The
recipient was not a new payee by this stage, nor had the payments been made in rapid
succession, or drained the account.
So, I dont think there was anything Santander could have said which would have changed
her mind about the investment or anything it could have advised her to do which would have
uncovered the scam.
Ms D also raised that she was vulnerable at the time of the scam, saying she was distracted
with her business. But she had not evidenced that Santander was on notice of this, or
explained how she was impacted, so it does not change my findings.I have then thought about whether Santander did what we would expect to try to recover
Ms Ds money after she reported the scam. This was some time after it occurred, in May
2023. So I cannot reasonably expect Santander to have successfully recovered the money
given the time that had passed, particularly as Ms D knew she had moved the money on
from the beneficiary account Santander sent it to.
This means I am not instructing Santander to refund any money to Ms D. This is difficult
decision to make, Im sorry Ms D lost a considerable amount of money which was very
distressing for her. I can understand why she would like to be compensated for her losses.
And I do accept Ms D has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider
whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible
for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find Santander can be held liable
in the circumstances of this case.
Both parties responded before the deadline I set. Ms D accepted my provisional decision. 
Santander said it had no information to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any new information for me to review I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows for the reasons set out above I do not find Santander can be held liable for Ms Ds 
losses.   
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman