DRN-1773275
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about the default Capital One (Europe) plc applied to his account in 
2015.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S entered into a credit agreement with Capital One in October 2012 and in doing 
so agreed to its terms and conditions. These included making the required payments 
on the set date. They also set out what issues would result in a default notice being 
issued and included in these is the consumer entering into a voluntary arrangement 
or a compromise with creditors. Mr S entered a debt management plan (DMP) which 
means this default event was triggered.
Mr S entered the DMP and Capital One was contacted about this in November 2014. 
In January 2015, an offer was made regarding payment on the account. This was set 
at £31.69 a month. Capital One sent Mr S a letter dated 16 January 2015 confirming 
that it had been contacted about the payment plan and issuing a default notice. It 
explained that the default notice was issued because a payment plan had been 
entered into for less than the required minimum payment amount. It further explained 
that the default could be avoided by cancelling the payment plan and making at least 
the minimum required payments under the agreement. Given this I find that Capital 
One provided Mr S with the information he needed at this time.
Mr S said that the default notice and other letters at this time were sent to an old 
address and so he didnt receive them. I can understand that this was upsetting but it 
was Mr S responsibility to keep his address up to date with Capital One. I can see 
from Capital Ones notes that his address was update in March 2015, after the 
default notice was issued. While I appreciate Mr S comments about the DMP 
provider having his correct address, I have nothing to show that Capital One was 
informed of a change of address until March 2015 and as it sent the notices to the 
address it held for Mr S, I find it acted reasonably.
Mr S said that the payments he set up for Capital One under the DMP were more 
than the monthly minimum amount. I have looked at Mr S statements from the time 
and his payment history. On his statement covering 11 October 2014 to 10 
November 2014 a minimum payment amount of £17.69 was required to be paid by 6 
December. This payment wasnt made until 10 December and a £12 late payment 
charge was applied. In his following statement, a minimum amount of £29.64 was 
required to be paid by 5 January 2015. Again, this was paid late, and a £12 charge 
was applied. Mr S then paid £31.69 on 11 January but he was now in a new charging 
period. The minimum amount he needed to pay by 5 February was £59.84. The 11 
January payment was applied to his account and a minimum payment amount of 
£33.19 was required by 8 March 2015. Based on the evidence, I do not find that Mr S 
was making sufficient payments to meet the minimum amounts due on his account at 
this time. He was sent a notice of arrears dated 10 February 2015 which explained 
the situation on his account. 
The default was applied in February 2015, after Mr S had been provided with a 
default notice and also a notice of his arrears. Capital One has explained the timing 
and I find this reasonable given the notice provided and when the payments were set 
up. Overall, I find that Capital One didnt do anything wrong by applying the default to 
Mr S account. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman