DRN-2381671
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the administration by Target Servicing Limited of an equity loan he 
holds. He believes Target caused delays during his re-mortgage and he had to pay more 
interest on his mortgage because his fixed rate ended during the process and the mortgage 
moved to his lenders higher standard variable rate.
What happened
In 2015 Mr F bought a new-build property and took advantage of a help to buy scheme. 
This meant that he paid a smaller deposit than his lender would usually require, and the 
difference was paid in the form of an equity loan that ran alongside Mr Fs mortgage. Both 
the mortgage lender and the equity loan provider had a charge placed against the title of 
Mr Fs home as security for the money owed.
In 2018 Mr F decided he wanted to change mortgage lender. The fixed interest rate deal he 
had attached to his existing mortgage had ended on 31 December 2017 and his mortgage 
had reverted to the lenders standard variable rate. 
On 21 May 2018 Mr Fs solicitors sent Target a deed of postponement (DoP) to allow the 
new lenders charge to be registered as the first charge on the property title. Target didnt 
respond to the solicitors letter.  It was not until 20 September 2018 that Target provided 
details of its requirements for the DoP being processed. This was sent in an email to Mr F.
In October 2018 Mr Fs new lender issued the mortgage offer initially used in the subsequent 
processing of the DoP.
On 11 December 2018 Mr F contacted Target for an update on progress of the DoP and it 
told him what documentation it needed and explained there would be an administration fee 
payable. This information had been included in the material sent to Mr F in September 2018. 
Mr F paid the administration fee on 28 December 2018 and his solicitors provided the 
required documentation approximately three weeks later. The mortgage offer supplied at that 
point was dated 18 October 2018 and for an amount of £102,000.
Further correspondence was received from Mr Fs solicitor a few days later, which enclosed 
the DoP it wanted completed. 
Unfortunately, Target didnt immediately notice that the amount on the mortgage offer was 
for slightly more than it believed was needed to repay the existing mortgage. It contacted 
Mr F and said it wouldnt agree to the DoP with what was effectively increased lending. This 
was explained on 30 January 2019. 
Mr F went back to his lender and obtained an updated mortgage offer. He sent it to Target 
on 6 February 2019. In the covering letter Mr F explained that the difference between the 
previous offer and amount needed to pay off the existing mortgage was due to the passage 
of time and delays  more mortgage payments had been made reducing the outstanding 
mortgage. Mr F complained about the time it has taken to get the DoP as he had first 
contacted Target around a year earlier. 
Target was satisfied it had received all the information it needed to process the DoP on 
13 February 2019 and arranged for the equity loan providers solicitors to start that process. 
The DoP was issued to Mr Fs solicitors on 15 March 2019 and the re-mortgage completed 
on 22 March 2019.  Mr F complained to Target about the processing of the DoP request 
shortly thereafter.
Target considered the events complained about and acknowledged that it hadnt provided an 
acceptable level of service. It said that it has caused delays during the process in 
January 2019 and acknowledged it hadnt responded to the early correspondence from 
Mr Fs solicitors. As such Target offered Mr F £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor administration had caused.
Mr F wasnt happy with Targets response and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended it be partially upheld 
as he considered Target had caused more delays than it had acknowledged. He ultimately 
recommended Target increase its compensation to £350 to take into account both any 
additional interest paid because of all the delays it had caused and for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Mr F.
Mr F responded and pointed out that he didnt apply for additional borrowing when he 
applied for his re-mortgage. Rather the difference between the figure on the re-mortgage 
offer and that needed to redeem the old mortgage was because of the time the process took 
and the amount he had paid off the old mortgage. 
Target didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It again accepted that it had contributed 
to the delay in this case, but it didnt accept it bore sole responsibility given the 
documentation wasnt received from the solicitors until January 2019. It was satisfied its offer 
of £150 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It asked that the complaint be passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mr F has said his re-mortgage was delayed considerably because of delays caused by 
Target and so I have looked carefully at what happened to establish what delays there were 
and whether Target is responsible for them. Whilst Mr Fs solicitors contacted Target in the 
spring of 2018 about obtaining a DoP, and Target failed to respond to that enquiry, I am not 
persuaded this caused any delay in the process. I say this as it doesnt appear that Mr F 
received a mortgage offer until October 2018.  It would have been impossible to process a 
DoP until the re-mortgage had been offered. As such, based on the mortgage offer being 
made in October 2018, the time period between the solicitors original request for information 
and when Target provided the necessary information to Mr F about obtaining a DoP in 
September 2018 didnt cause a delay in the re-mortgage process. 
As for the events that followed, Mr F was given the information he needed in 
September 2018 to be able to arrange for a DoP. However, the fee wasnt paid until 
December 2018 and Mr Fs solicitors didnt provide Target with the necessary 
documentation until the middle of January 2019. It doesnt appear that Target caused any 
delays during this period.
Target has acknowledged that it should have noticed the issue with the mortgage offer 
sooner. It was eight working days between Target receiving the information and it contacting 
Mr F about the matter. I would not expect a mortgage administrator to deal with correspondence on the day it was received in its building, so I think it fair to say this issue 
caused at most a weeks delay. 
It wasnt unreasonable for Target to question the amount of the advance, although I think it 
would have known the difference in the figures was likely because the offer was dated 
several months earlier, and Mr F had made further mortgage payments to reduce the 
outstanding balance on his existing mortgage. That said, Target was entitled to ensure in 
agreeing the DoP that the lender was not being disadvantaged and so it was within its rights 
to ask for an updated mortgage offer. The provision of the DoP appears to have moved 
ahead in a reasonable time thereafter. 
Given I think Target only caused around a week of delay in the processing of the DoP and, 
thereby Mr Fs re-mortgage, I think the compensation of £150 thats been offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr F acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and said he wasnt happy with it. 
However, he didnt make any further comment or provide any additional evidence.
Target confirmed it had received my provisional decision and confirmed it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence or comment from the parties, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as the offer already made by Target 
was appropriate in the circumstances.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman