DRN-1601542
The complaint
Mrs Cs unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc have turned down a claim on her pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs C made a claim for the treatment her pet had. Allianz turned down this 
claim, saying it wasnt covered under the exclusions thatd been placed on the policy 
previously.
Mrs C felt this was unfair, as her own vet said the claim should be reconsidered, so she 
complained to Allianz.
In November 2019 Allianz replied to the complaint. They said as a result of a claim in 
March 2018 for a high temperature of unknown origin theyd placed three exclusions on 
Mrs Cs policy  one of which was for infections / infectious diseases. They explained this 
was because Mrs Cs vet couldnt confirm the exact reason for the high temperature. In 
August 2019 a further claim was received  but this was turned down as their assessor said 
Mrs Cs pet had a virus known as feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), so fell under the 
exclusion for infections / infectious diseases. Mrs Cs vet contacted Allianz saying they 
hadnt claimed for FIV, so wanted the claim reassessed. Allianz said they discussed this with 
Mrs Cs vet, and their own vet, and concluded the symptoms Mrs Cs pet had could all be 
caused by FIV. So, unless her vet can confirm what condition her pet had, they wouldnt be 
able to meet Mrs Cs claim  and since treatment all clinical signs had gone, so this seemed 
unlikely.
Mrs C didnt agree with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
but found that Allianz had acted fairly by turning down the claim, as it related to the infections 
/ infectious diseases exclusion.
Mrs C didnt accept this. She said it was her vet whod seen her pet and said FIV wasnt 
relevant, so felt the claim should be paid. Because of this, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reason Allianz have turned down Mrs Cs claim relates to an exclusion they applied in 
March 2018. So, Ill firstly look at whether they were right to place that exclusion and, if they 
were, whether theyve since acted fairly by turning down the claim. Having done so, and 
while I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs C, Ive found Allianz have acted fairly.
Exclusions applied in March 2018
Allianz have explained they placed three exclusions on Mrs Cs policy in March 2018 as a 
result of a claim made at that time. 
This claim was for pyrexia which is a high temperature or fever  but Mrs Cs vet wasnt 
able to confirm exactly what condition had caused this. 
Ive looked at Allianzs underwriting guide. I cant share this, as its commercially sensitive, 
but Im satisfied with the information it contains. It says if a pet shows signs of pyrexia then 
theyll place three exclusions on the policy  one of which is for infections / infectious 
diseases.
So, Im satisfied Allianz have fairly added the exclusion to the policy.
Have they fairly applied this exclusion when turning down the policy
Allianz have turned down the claim because they say Mrs Cs pets symptoms are those of 
FIV. And, FIV would fall under the infections / infectious diseases exclusion they placed on 
the policy. The exclusion says claims resulting from or connected to infections / infectious 
diseases wont be covered. So, Ive taken a look at the information provided by Allianz and 
their vet, as well as Mrs C and her vet.
Mrs Cs vet said, in response to the claim being turned down, that there wasnt any evidence 
the weight loss was due to the pets FIV status. Later on, Mrs Cs vet said its difficult to give 
clear answers to questions in complicated cases. He said the reason for investigating 
Mrs Cs pet was due to significant weight loss. During this investigation, he found Mrs Cs 
pet to be FIV positive, and there were some changes to the liver and kidneys. The vet adds 
Thankfully he responded to the dental and supporting treatment and has since regained all 
his weight. The vet explains theyve not carried out further testing for various reasons 
including financial restraints. They also say FIV is an infectious disease so wouldnt be 
covered, and perhaps itd be fairer to pay a percentage of the claim for the unknown issues.
Allianzs vet says the main and underlying issue in Mrs Cs pet is the FIV infection  so 
because of this they dont think they should meet the claim, and it isnt appropriate to do any 
partial settlement.
So, both parties agree that Mrs Cs pet has FIV  and Mrs Cs vet isnt able to confirm if 
there are any other conditions. Having diagnosed FIV, Mrs Cs vet carried out treatment 
which resulted in Mrs Cs pet regaining all previous weight lost, and any previous clinical 
signs were no longer present.
Taking everything into account Ive concluded Allianz have acted fairly in turning down 
Mrs Cs claim based on the information theyve been given. Her pet was diagnosed and 
treated for FIV which resolved the previous conditions. FIV is excluded under the infections / 
infectious diseases exclusion which I think has been fairly applied. And Ive seen nothing to 
demonstrate that there were any other conditions which were the cause of this claim to 
suggest a partial settlement would be appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 Jon Pearce
Ombudsman