DRN-3568006
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oplo PL Ltd provided him with a loan that he was unable to afford to
repay.
What happened
Mr S was provided with a loan for £8,000 by Oplo on 5 July 2018, for a period of 18 months
at a monthly instalment of around £266. Mr S kept up the payments for nine months but he
fell into arrears because of a change in his circumstances. He complained to Oplo that the
loan was unaffordable, as he already had substantial debts. Hed also had a gambling
problem since 2016 and had spent considerable sums on gambling, evidenced by transfers
from his bank account.
Oplo explained that it assessed his application for a loan by considering a credit report,
verifying his income, and checking one page of his recent bank account to verify his address
and his salary payment. It didnt consider it necessary to ask for further bank statements. It
saw nothing untoward in the information obtained, and assessed that he was able to afford
the loan. It assessed that he would have a disposable income of over £1,045 taking into
account the new loan instalments. It further said that as the loan was intended to consolidate
two other loans, this would have increased his disposable income to over £1,700.
Mr S has provided bank statements for three accounts for the period up to and after the loan.
Our adjudicator said that the information Oplo obtained from its checks was concerning and
should have prompted it to carry out further checks. In particular Mr Ss main bank account
showed numerous transfers of money to other accounts, which Mr S advised were used for
gambling. Had Oplo investigated those transactions further it would have shown this, so it
shouldnt have lent the money.
Oplo said it didnt require bank statements, save for one page of his main account. It said:
Mr S had monthly free cash of £1,700 following consolidation of the intended debts and
after consideration of its loan repayment  it was therefore reasonable to conclude that
the loan was affordable.
He had no defaults or CCJs (County Court Judgements).
There were no missed repayments or arrears on any of his active credit accounts.
It obtained details of recent credit taken and plausible explanations were provided.
It had no cause to suspect Mr S had an undisclosed gambling problem and although 
he had the opportunity to declare this to it, he chose not to do so.
It also pointed out that although Mr S had subsequently provided bank statements, none of 
those statements showed gambling transactions.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Oplo had carried out proportionate checks 
and that those checks wouldnt have alerted it to carry out further checks. So I said it was 
unlikely that it would have discovered his gambling problem.
Oplo said it had no further comment to make.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional findings. He said, in summary:
For the size and duration of the loan more checks should have been undertaken. 
Although the ingoing funds from his salary were relatively healthy this was not fully 
reflective of his financial position, and the credit report shouldve shown that at the time.
He had a number of overdrafts as well as outstanding loans, this wouldve highlighted his 
financial behaviours that required more in depth review, i.e. bank statements. For a loan
provider not to request bank statements for a substantial loan when a customer already 
has overdrafts and pre-existing loans is unacceptable and irresponsible.
I said in my provisional findings that Oplo should have directed funds to pay off 
outstanding loans  this was not the case and as such was irresponsible lending.
When Oplo asked to see a bank statement at the time of the application, he provided a 
print screen of a preferred page of his statement showing his address and minimal 
transactions. The fact that Oplo requested a bank statement and he was reluctant to 
send a bank statement and rather a snippet of a page should have prompted Oplo to 
question why, and what was there to hide.
With regard to comments around his bank statements and only providing Oplo with 3 of 
the accounts when requested, the reason for this was because his bank was unable to 
send him the fourth account (with all the gambling transactions on) for 25 business days 
from request  this is why these statements were provided at a later date. 
Notwithstanding, the other accounts had very frequent XFER transactions showing the 
transfer of funds to various accounts  this wouldve triggered questioning where and 
why money was being transferred and for what activity. The frequent transfers would 
have highlighted erratic financial activity and further shown the use of funds was for 
gambling/ unsustainable purposes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan amount was for a considerable sum, payable over a long period. This 
represented a substantial monthly commitment for Mr S. So Oplo should have carried out 
a thorough assessment of Mr Ss financial circumstances.
I think the checks carried out by Oplo were proportionate, taking into account the amount of 
the loan and Mr Ss income, which was relatively high (about £3,478 net a month). The 
credit check revealed that Mr S had, in April 2018 taken out a loan for around £4,700 and in
May 2018 for around £6,600. Mr S had explained to Oplo that those loans were 
respectively for a holiday and for the purchase of an engagement ring. The loan 
application noted that those loans were to be paid off by the new loan.
Mr S had no less than 5 current accounts showing in his credit records. Two didnt appear to 
have been used recently. One had had an overdraft of £1,143 in April 2018 which had been 
paid off, another with an overdraft of £1,000 again in April 2018 which had been paid off. A third account had a current overdraft of £1,057, which had been reducing. The one page of a 
bank statement which Oplo saw at the time of the application didnt show any overdraft nor
any transactions out of the ordinary.
No other debts or credit, and no defaults showed on Mr Ss record.
Given that Mr S hadnt told Oplo about his gambling problem, the question to ask is 
whether the information disclosed by the credit report should have led Oplo to carry out 
further checks. And whether those checks should have led it to conclude the loan wasnt 
affordable. Its income and expenditure check (I & E) showed Mr S to have a disposable 
income, including the new loan instalment, of around £1,045, increasing to £1,700 if the old 
loans were paid off, as intended.
Although Mr S had taken out recent loans and from time to time used his bank account 
overdraft, I dont think that the checks Oplo carried out should have alerted it to carry out 
further checks. Mr S appeared to quite able to meet the new loan commitment. I dont 
think, looking at his accounts that he did in fact pay off the two loans, and Oplo should 
have arranged to pay those off before releasing funds to him if it was concerned about 
affordability. But I have noted that he obtained a new loan from the company that provided 
the smaller loan, in November 2018. However even without paying off those loans he 
would still have had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments for the new loan.
If Oplo had carried out further checks, Ive noted that the statements Mr S sent to it when he 
made his complaint, and those he initially sent to us, dont show any gambling transactions, 
nor do they show heavy use of an overdraft. It was only in response to Oplo requesting an 
ombudsmans decision, that he sent through a statement from a third account which does 
indeed show substantial gambling transactions. If a business does ask for bank statements
this would usually be from the consumers main account (to show regular income and 
outgoings), so it doesnt appear to me that Oplo would have seen any gambling 
transactions. As he didnt disclose any gambling problem to Oplo, I would doubt that it 
would have seen that from his bank statements. A further point to note is that he obtained 
the loans in April and November 2018, presumably without those companies noticing any 
gambling transactions.
So, I think Oplo carried out proportionate I & E checks on Mr S, and that those checks 
wouldnt have alerted it to carry out further checks. I think it made a fair lending decision.
Taking Mr Ss points:
There is no requirement under the rules Ive referred to for a business to obtain bank 
statements from a prospective customer. Ive set out in my provisional findings exactly what 
the credit check report revealed about Mr Ss financial circumstances, which I believe was 
fairly accurate.  Oplo accepted Mr Ss reasons for taking out the two loans in April and May 
2018, and the loan monies would have been sufficient to pay those off.
He had one overdraft at the time of his application. Previous overdrafts had been paid off 
fairly quickly so would not have been a concern. He had a mortgage but otherwise only had 
two loans, no credit cards or previous loans. I still think that, given his income, his credit 
record, and the amount of disposable income he would have left after paying the new loan, 
Oplos checks were proportionate. And by that I mean that it wasnt obliged to carry out a 
forensic assessment of Mr Ss financial circumstances. It believed Mr S when he told it what 
the loans were for and there was nothing in the checks it did that should have alerted it to 
carry out more in depth checks. If a business suspects a customer isnt telling the truth then 
of course it should carry out further enquiries. But I cant see in this case that it had any 
reason to doubt Mr S.Oplo wasnt obliged to pay off outstanding loans even if those loans were due to be paid off 
as part of the application. But if it doesnt it takes the risk that the loans wont be paid off and 
the new loan instalment on top of those for the old loans will be unaffordable. But in this 
case, even with the new loan instalment Oplo assessed that Mr S had a disposable monthly 
income of over £1,000, so I dont think it was irresponsible of it not to pay off those loans.
I understand that Oplo wanted to see a bank statement to confirm Mr Ss address and 
payment of salary. It had already decided it didnt need to see a full bank statement. I note 
Mr S admits he chose a statement which didnt show any transactions which might be 
queried.
With regard to the provision of a statement for the account with the gambling transactions 
on it, Oplos final response to Mr S was dated 15 March. It pointed out that it hadnt seen 
any gambling transactions in the statements Mr S supplied. He complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman in May 2022, but didnt alert us to any further statements. Notwithstanding this, 
the other statements do show transfers between accounts. I dont think the checks Oplo had 
done should have alerted it to obtain bank statements or carry out further checks. 
Nevertheless if it had seen the statements with financial transfers between accounts it 
would likely have asked Mr S about them. And from what hes said its unlikely that he would 
have revealed that they were for gambling transactions.
I am sorry that Mr Ss gambling addiction has caused him mental health difficulties. But 
based on the information Oplo saw at the time of his application, he seemed to have a 
relatively good credit record, and a high income. So I think it made a fair lending decision.
My provisional findings, as set out above, are now final, and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman