DRN-3315245
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided when she wanted to 
reduce the mortgage over her business premises.
What happened
Mrs M has a commercial mortgage with Barclays. In March 2020 Barclays wrote to    
Mrs M following an annual review of her mortgage indicating she could reduce her 
monthly mortgage payments from £750 to around £670 and still repay the mortgage by 
the end of the term.
In early April 2020 Mrs M sent back the response form attached to Barclays letter 
indicating she didnt want to reduce the monthly payment but did want to reduce the 
balance owed on the mortgage by £40,000. Mrs M also rang Barclays and they gave her a 
number for the business banking team to discuss her query. Unfortunately, the number 
was wrong and Mrs M couldnt get through, despite several attempts.
In July 2020 Mrs M complained Barclays hadnt responded to her. She said shed paid 
more interest than she would have done if shed reduced the mortgage. And she wanted 
Barclays to refund the additional interest shed paid.
Barclays didnt respond to Mrs Ms complaint until December 2020. They apologised for 
their mistake in failing to acknowledge her request to reduce the mortgage and giving 
her the wrong phone number for the business banking team. And they offered her £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. Barclays didnt think 
theyd caused Mrs M any financial loss.
Our investigator felt this was a fair way of putting things right and didnt uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. Since Mrs M wasnt happy with our investigators view, her complaint was 
passed to me to review. Ive issued two provisional decisions. In the first I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to several calls Mrs M had with Barclays, including the calls about her 
complaint in December 2020. Based on what Ive seen and heard so far, I intend to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Barclays accept they failed to acknowledge Mrs Ms request for information about 
reducing the mortgage on the response form and the inconvenience they caused by 
giving her the wrong number for their business banking team. Barclays have explained 
they were very busy because of the coronavirus pandemic. I think its fair to say lenders 
were under pressure at the time as they had to adapt to alternative ways of working. 
Barclays told Mrs M theyd had significantly more calls than usual because of an 
increased demand for borrowing and staff had been moved to areas of business 
unfamiliar to them, which had impacted the service they could provide.
I can understand Mrs M found it frustrating when she couldnt get through to 
Barclays business banking team on the number Barclays had given her. Mrs M 
thought the number was constantly engaged. Barclays felt the sound that could be 
heard when ringing the number suggested it was unobtainable rather than engaged. 
Whatever the position, Mrs M was clearly inconvenienced, and it was right for 
Barclays to apologise and offer compensation.
Mrs M wanted Barclays to pay the difference in the interest she would have paid if shed 
paid off £40,000 and what she actually paid by not reducing the mortgage. Barclays 
have raised several points as to why they dont think they should be responsible for that.
Mrs Ms notes on the response form said she didnt want to amend her loan payments, 
However I would like to reduce by £40k, and if no penalty to do so please advise 
how to reduce the balance by £40000. I have tried to do on line and to ring without 
success.
Barclays say the note on the response form implies if there was a fee, Mrs M wouldnt 
pay it and she wouldnt go ahead with reducing the mortgage. They argue this is 
supported by the fact Mrs M hasnt made any further attempts to follow through with the 
process since. Barclays also say the information Mrs Ms given about what she planned 
to do with the £40,000 is conflicting.
Mrs M says she made it clear on the form she wanted to reduce the mortgage but 
didnt want Barclays to go ahead until she knew the costs involved. She says if shed 
known in March 2020 the penalty for reducing the mortgage balance was 1% of the 
£40,000 she was thinking of paying - £400 - she would have gone ahead, as she would 
have saved more than that on her mortgage payments and it would have been cost 
effective.
Mrs Ms explained shed sold her business for health reasons but continued to work as a 
consultant for the buyer. She no longer needed the building shed been working from. 
She had funds available from the sale of her business and wanted to plan how best to 
use the money. She was thinking about whether to let the premises or to sell them. And 
she wanted to know whether it would be cost effective to pay off part of the mortgage 
and reduce her outgoings.
Since Barclays failed to respond to the note on the response form and Mrs M wasnt able 
to get hold of anyone in the business team because Barclays had given her the wrong 
number, she says she couldnt make a decision and the money she had available wasnt 
earning any interest or saving her money.
I think Mrs Ms explanation is in line with what she told Barclays complaints handler in 
December 2020 that she and her husband had always planned their finances carefully. 
She wanted to know the position on reducing her mortgage so she could make decisions 
about whether to let or sell the premises or use the money she had available in other 
ways to reduce her outgoings. Im persuaded that Mrs M would have gone ahead and 
reduced her mortgage in April 2020 if shed known the penalty for doing so was only 
£400.
Barclays argue Mrs M could have found out from the facility letter issued to her when she 
took additional borrowing in 2017 what the penalty for making a payment to reduce the 
loan would be. They say she could have obtained the document from her office, which shed said shed be willing to visit to resolve a separate business banking issue, despite 
the pandemic, if necessary. Barclays say their delay in telling her  on a call with their 
complaints handler in December 2020  didnt lead to any loss.
Mrs Ms acknowledged she visited her office once to take what she needed to set herself 
up for home working in line with pandemic guidelines. She said she had many years 
worth of paperwork in the office. She didnt find the facility letter then  or by December 
2020 when she spoke to Barclays about her complaint. And she felt Barclays ought to 
have been able to tell her the position in any event, particularly as she was a business 
client paying a monthly fee for a service.
Barclays question why, when Mrs M spoke to them about other banking issues between 
April and July 2020, she didnt raise the difficulty she was having in getting information 
about her mortgage then. Mrs M says shed understood from what Barclays had told her 
she needed to speak to their business team, and she didnt think it was worth raising it 
with the representatives she spoke to about those other issues.
Ive listened to the relevant calls. On one of the calls Mrs M became upset about 
Barclays failure to deal with a commercial banking instruction shed given that could 
have put her in a difficult position professionally; on another the Barclays representative 
was helping out from another team about another potentially difficult situation for Mrs M.
Given the circumstances of those calls, I dont think its fair to expect Mrs M to have 
raised then the difficulties she was having with her mortgage enquiry, particularly since 
shed been told to contact another department. And, as far as Mrs M was concerned, the 
problem in getting through to that department was because she thought the number was 
busy and wasnt connecting. I dont think it was unreasonable for her to think that.
Barclays say they contacted Mrs M in July 2020  after shed complained - as part of 
managing the business relationship. They cant find any records of any calls and the 
recollection of the individual involved who thinks they spoke to Mrs M is vague. 
Barclays say they are confident they appropriately and correctly advised Mrs M of the 
information she sought. Mrs M cant remember there being any contact.
Without any record or a clear recollection from the person who had the conversation, 
its impossible to know what Barclays said, if anything, to Mrs M at the time. I think its 
likely that if Mrs M had been given clear information at this stage, she would have 
made the payment to reduce her mortgage as she clearly wanted to manage her 
finances and that would have reduced her outgoings.
Barclays have recently provided records they say show Mrs M has previously 
requested redemption figures on a commercial loan. They rely on those records 
as evidence the process for redeeming the mortgage has been explained to    
Mrs M previously and, specifically, that it is virtually certain Mrs M has been 
advised many times how she could repay the facility or make a payment to 
reduce the balance. I dont think the extract of the records Barclays have 
provided shows anything other than that Mrs M may have made an enquiry about 
redeeming the mortgage. It doesnt provide evidence she discussed the process 
of reducing the mortgage or any penalties associated with that or paying it off 
entirely, for example. But I will consider any further evidence Barclays wish to 
provide about this in response to this provisional decision.
From what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied Barclays didnt give Mrs M the information 
about the penalty shed have to pay until she spoke to them about her complaint in 
December 2020.Bearing everything in mind, I think the service Barclays provided fell short of 
the service Mrs M was entitled to expect as a fee-paying business customer 
even considering the impact of the pandemic on Barclays.
Im currently persuaded Mrs M took appropriate steps to try and find out the process 
and cost for paying £40,000 off her mortgage. She complained to Barclays in July. And 
whilst that was around three months from her initial enquiry, shed tried to contact 
Barclays on an incorrect number theyd provided in the meantime. She had her own 
business to run during the pandemic and I can understand she will have had to 
prioritise that and cope with the difficulties working from home brought her. And she 
says she tried to contact Barclays unsuccessfully after shed raised the complaint.
Mrs M couldnt find the facility letter and still hadnt found it by December when Barclays 
contacted her after several months delay to discuss her complaint. I think she was entitled 
to expect Barclays could give her the information she needed over the phone. And 
although Mrs M didnt take any action after making her complaint to progress reducing her 
mortgage, I think thats reasonable since she was waiting for Barclays to respond to her 
complaint and attempts to contact Barclays to discuss that were unsuccessful. Her 
situation changed while things were delayed, and she decided to sell the property. But if 
shed had the information she needed to take a decision about reducing her mortgage 
earlier, and reduced it - as I think she would - she would have saved money on interest 
payments in the meantime.
Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I think its fair, to reflect the poor service 
Mrs M received, to direct Barclays to
Pay Mrs M the difference in interest she paid and the interest she would have 
paid on her mortgage for eight months, less the penalty of £400 she would have 
had to pay. This assumes Mrs M would have reduced her mortgage by £40,000 
by the end of April 2020, if shed known the position then, and takes into 
account that by December 2020 she did know the position, so was then able to 
decide what to do; and
Pay Mrs M compensation of £250 inclusive of any payment Barclays has 
already made to her to reflect the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced as a result of the poor service Barclays provided, and the time 
and effort she spent over several months trying to contact them, bearing in 
mind her difficult circumstances due to her poor health and home working.
My provisional decision
I provisionally uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs M:
1. The difference in interest she paid and the interest she would have paid on her 
mortgage for eight months, less the penalty of £400 she would have had to pay; 
and
2. Compensation of £250, inclusive of any payment Barclays has already made, 
for distress and inconvenience.
I recently issued a second provisional decision in light of the parties comments on my first 
provisional decision. An extract of my second provisional decision follows:
DevelopmentsMrs M accepted my provisional decision. Barclays agreed to pay Mrs M 
additional compensation but didnt think they should have to refund the 
difference in interest.
Barclays said it isnt fair for them to refund interest on the basis Mrs M may have reduced 
the mortgage if shed known what the penalty would be sooner. They point to the fact that 
she hasnt taken steps to reduce the mortgage since knowing what the penalty would be 
in December 2020. They say they would have expected her to have made the payment 
after that, which would show shed always intended to reduce the outstanding amount.
Mrs Ms explained more about what happened after she contacted Barclays about paying 
off some of the mortgage in April 2020:
With family help, Mrs M spent around twelve to fifteen months, with interruptions 
due to the pandemic, digitalising and then clearing paperwork compiled over more 
than 30 years and dealing with the accounts.
She put the property on the market in August 2020 but, although there was interest 
in it, she felt people were nervous to go ahead because of the uncertainty of the 
situation due to the pandemic.
In November 2020 she had an offer on the property, but it fell through. She had 
already given notice on the flat above the property which was, by then, her main 
form of income. Mrs M says she has now accepted an offer in principle on the 
premises and agreed a temporary lease on the office to cover some of the costs of 
the mortgage and building expenses. Mrs M has also taken a part-time job to 
provide some necessary income.
On 19 October 2020 Mrs M transferred a lump sum to her personal offset 
mortgage account. She felt the interest being paid on her Barclays business 
account was low and the money would be better used there.
Mrs M still had a balance of over £40,000 in the Barclays account between 
October and December 2020. In January she had a significant tax bill to pay 
reducing the balance to around £22,500. Since January 2021 Mrs M has used 
some of the remaining balance for other purposes but left around £15,000 in the 
Barclays account. This was intended to show she still had money available to pay 
towards the mortgage when Barclays contacted her, as it would take a few days to 
transfer money back from the offset home mortgage account.
When Mrs M referred her complaint to this service, she decided to await the 
outcome of the complaint before taking any further action to reduce the mortgage. 
She didnt appreciate the complaints process would take as long as it has. She 
says that from what our investigator said in her view issued in August 2021, she 
expected Barclays to contact her.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what the evidence now shows about Mrs Ms intentions to pay 
£40,000 off her mortgage before December 2020. Having reviewed things, I intend to 
change my outcome.
Barclays records show Mrs M requested a redemption figure in April 2020. And Mrs Ms 
now explained she put the property on the market in August that year. On the one hand, 
that could be seen as evidence she wasnt intending to reduce the mortgage, and her focus 
was always on selling the property. On the other, her actions could be seen as evidence she was trying to make the best of her situation financially, in line with her testimony that 
she and her husband have always planned their finances carefully. On balance, I think   
Mrs M was keeping her options open. There was nothing to stop Mrs M reducing the 
mortgage balance whilst marketing the property at the same time.
However, on 19 October 2020 Mrs M transferred £46,500 to her personal offset mortgage 
account and saved interest on that mortgage as a result. I think she did this as an 
alternative to reducing the business mortgage by £40,000. Although she still had over 
£40,000 in her business account once shed made the transfer, I think shed earmarked this 
for other things including her tax bill. That amounted to almost half the balance remaining 
after the transfer which she paid in January 2021.
I appreciate Mrs M could probably have reorganised things by using the balance in her 
Barclays account and moving funds out of the offset mortgage again to reduce the 
business mortgage. She says she didnt know the process to reduce the business 
mortgage even in December 2020, or after shed complained to this service and was 
expecting Barclays to contact her. But she hasnt taken any action on this even since our 
investigator provided her with Barclays contact details to discuss how to arrange it.
I acknowledge Mrs M was under some pressure, sold her business for health reasons, 
was continuing to work and had to organise her records - all during the pandemic. But she 
was able to market the property and manage her finances. So, I think she could have 
contacted Barclays by now, if shed wanted to go ahead and reduce the balance of the 
business mortgage. And Im not persuaded that, even if shed known the process in 
December 2020, she would have managed things differently once shed made the transfer 
to the offset mortgage in October 2020.
Bearing the above in mind, I think its fair to say that Mrs M initially intended to reduce the 
Barclays mortgage and would have done so if shed known the cost of doing so when she 
asked about it in March 2020. But, having heard nothing from Barclays by October 2020, 
she changed her mind about reducing the business mortgage and decided to use the funds 
to offset interest on her personal mortgage instead.
So I think its fair Barclays should reimburse the interest she would have saved if shed 
reduced the mortgage by £40,000, less the interest she would have earned on the amount 
if it had stayed in her Barclays account, from 1 April 2020 to 18 October 2020 inclusive.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) pay to Mrs M the difference in interest she paid and the interest she would 
have paid on her mortgage from 1 April 2020 to 18 October 2020, had she 
reduced it by £40,000, less the penalty she would have had to pay of £400 and 
the interest she would have earned on £40,000 if it had stayed in the business 
account during the same period;
2) calculate the net amount payable and provide this to Mrs M for agreement within 
28 days of Mrs M accepting my final decision and pay the agreed sum to her 
within 14 days of agreement; and
3) pay Mrs M, in addition, compensation of £250, inclusive of any payment Barclays 
has already made, for distress and inconvenience.
Further developmentsThe parties have responded to my second provisional decision. Ive considered Mrs Ms 
comments and I am sympathetic to her situation. But nothing shes said leads me to 
change my decision about whats a fair and reasonable outcome in relation to her 
complaint. And, in the end, shes said she will accept it. Barclays have accepted the 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the parties have accepted my second provisional decision, I see no reason to change 
my outcome.
Putting things right
I set out in my second provisional decision how I think Barclays should put things right and I 
see no reason to change my mind about that.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) pay to Mrs M the difference in interest she paid and the interest she would have 
paid on her mortgage from 1 April 2020 to 18 October 2020, had she reduced it by 
£40,000, less the penalty she would have had to pay of £400 and the interest she 
would have earned on £40,000 if it had stayed in the business account during the 
same period;
2) calculate the net amount payable and provide this to Mrs M for agreement within 
28 days of Mrs M accepting my final decision and pay the agreed sum to her 
within 14 days of agreement; and
3) pay Mrs M, in addition, compensation of £250, inclusive of any payment Barclays 
has already made, for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman