DRN-3543287
The complaint
Mrs W complains Covea Insurance Plc have unfairly declined her buildings insurance claim 
and cancelled her policy.
Mrs W is being represented by Mr A.
All references to Covea also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea said Mrs Ws misrepresentation was careless. 
It said when taking out the policy, she was asked if the property had ever suffered from 
subsidence or a landslip, to which she answered no. However, Covea has provided 
evidence of repairs carried out at the property around 2005 for landslip. 
Ive considered Mrs Ws comments that her previous insurer ultimately classified the claim 
as accidental damage at the time. But I can see from certificate of the repairs provided at the 
time, it clearly shows they were for a landslip, and the question Mrs W asked was whether 
the property had ever suffered from landslip  and there was clear information to show it 
had. I can also see Mrs W has answered no to this question on the application.
This isnt to question Mrs Ws honesty as shes said. But from the information Ive seen Im 
not satisfied the question was answered correctly and there was clear information available 
to Mrs W that a landslip had occurred at the property. So, I agree Mrs Ws misrepresentation 
was careless, this was information that should have been provided to Covea.
Ive looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA and I can see it has 
provided underwriting criteria which shows it wouldnt have agreed to cover Mrs W if the 
landslip had been disclosed at the point of taking out the policy. As a result, Covea has 
voided the policy and refunded the premiums paid to Mrs W. This is what I would expect 
Covea to do in the circumstances and for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably in doing so.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman