DRN-1548727
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 2008 Mr H took out a credit card with RBS. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered his repayments 
for periods of time if he lost his job or if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.
When Mr H complained to RBS that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. However, it did 
refund to him some excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums 
he had paid. Mr H wasnt happy with what RBS had said and offered so brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.   
Mr H is represented by a third party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I shall explain why.
Mr H says he applied for the credit card and PPI in a meeting at the bank and it wasnt made 
clear he had a choice to take out the PPI. He doesnt recall any information being provided 
about the PPI and its costs. Mr H says he didnt need the policy as he had a secure job 
which wouldve paid sick pay and he wanted to keep his costs down. So he says he would 
have rejected the PPI if hed been allowed to make his own mind up about it. 
RBS has provided a copy of the application form Mr H completed and this shows the card 
account and PPI were applied for online. It is over 10 years since the application was made 
and in the circumstances Mr H may not recall the circumstances that well, so Ive given more 
weight to what the documents from the time of the sale show.
From the information provided it seems Mr H met all the basic criteria to be eligible to take 
out the policy, such as his age and being in employment.
The application form he completed has a separate section that had to be filled in to take out 
the PPI. This section has a box that Mr H has ticked to select to take out the PPI and Mr H 
has electronically provided a signature in this box. This is a separate signature to that for taking out the credit card.  I think it was clear Mr H had a choice whether or not to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover at the time.
At the time of completing the application form Mr H may not have clearly understood all of 
the restrictions that applied to the PPI. He was sent information afterwards but its possible 
the information he had when choosing to take out the policy wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ive not seen anything to suggest he would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
So he wasnt caught by any restrictions of the policy and I dont think better information 
about these relating to the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
The cost of the policy is indicated on the application form, stated as an amount for every 
£100 of balance outstanding each month. This could possibly have been made slightly 
clearer, but I dont think at the time it would have stopped Mr H from taking out the policy as 
it seems it was affordable. The premium also appeared each month on Mr Hs credit card 
statement so if he had been concerned about the cost I think he would have cancelled the 
policy.
I note Mr H says due to his good employment benefits he didnt have a need for the PPI. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits he would have received, so 
allowing the income from his work benefits to pay for other household expenses. And no 
information has been provided to show Mr H had any savings or other ways to pay for his 
expenses if he wasnt working. So I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit to 
Mr H if he had needed to claim.
It follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
RBS has also considered if it needed to pay back any of the costs it may have got for a high 
level of commission and profit share which formed part of the PPI premiums. It has 
concluded that there is some commission due for this and £99.68 has been paid to Mr H. 
Looking at what RBS has done in relation to this I think this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold so the Royal Bank of 
Scotland PLC does not have to pay back the full cost of the PPI to Mr H. It has refunded the 
excess commission that was included in the PPI premiums, so it doesnt need to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman