DRN-3251755
The complaint
Mrs J complains about a fixed sum loan agreement she took out with Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited, to get brand new mobile telephone.
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs J took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Virgin so she could get a 
brand new mobile telephone. At the same time, she also agreed to a new airtime tariff with a 
different company. The airtime tariff supplier is a different arm of Virgin. Although they are 
separate companies, from Mrs Js point of view she has dealt with the same people 
throughout.
Mrs J says she experienced problems with her bank account in late 2019, which meant 
some of the direct debit payments to Virgin went unpaid. This created arrears on Mrs Js 
account, which she says she repaid when Virgin contacted her about the missed payments.
To try and stop the problems with the direct debit payments, in March 2020 Mrs J called 
Virgin to change her bank account details. However, Virgin only changed the direct debit 
Mrs J had set up to repay her airtime tariff, and not the separate direct debit set up to repay 
her loan agreement for the handset.
Over the next few months, Mrs Js loan agreement remained unpaid. Virgin continued to 
send letters to Mrs J about the arrears and eventually terminated the agreement in 
November 2020. This meant Virgin asked Mrs J to repay the total remaining amount she 
owed towards the fixed sum loan.
Around six months later, Mrs J resolved a separate dispute with the airtime supplier about 
ending that agreement. At the same time, Mrs J complained to Virgin. She said that had they 
changed the direct debit details correctly in March 2020, the loan agreement wouldnt be in 
arrears. Mrs J asked Virgin to write off the debt they had asked her to repay.
In their final response to Mrs Js complaint, Virgin said they had sent warning letters about 
the arrears to Mrs J, as well as a termination notice. They said it was Mrs Js responsibility to 
contact them, to talk about a way to repay the arrears.
Mrs J didnt accept Virgins response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the case and found that Virgin had treated Mrs J fairly. She said 
Virgin had kept Mrs J up to date with the balance and arrears owed to the loan. She also 
said Mrs J has had use of the handset since she took out the agreement, and it was fair for 
Mrs J to pay for the use shes had, despite the confusion over the direct debit payment 
details. Finally, the investigator also found that Virgin was able to pass any missed payment 
information to credit reference agencies.
Mrs J didnt agree and said she had called Virgin several times to sort things out. She said 
Virgin should have changed the direct debit details when she told them to and that any 
missed payment information should be deleted from her credit file. Mrs J also asked the 
investigator to consider awarding compensation for the time she has spent dealing with the 
matter.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mrs Js case has now been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the statements for Mrs Js loan account from when she first got the handset, to 
the most recent update sent to her by Virgin. Having done so, I can see that repayments 
were missed in November 2019 and in February and March 2020. 
Mrs J has told us this was due to the problems she was having with her bank account and 
she sought to address it by changing her direct debit with Virgin. I can see from Virgins 
contact records with Mrs J, that she did contact them in March 2020, to talk about her direct 
debit. But, I cannot see that Mrs J made payments to repay the three months of arrears that 
had built up before that.
Having considered all the evidence I agree that Ms J tried to resolve the problem caused by 
her bank account in March 2020. However, I think the loan account was already in arrears at 
that stage. And I dont think repayments were made to bring the account up to date.
Throughout her complaint, Mrs J has explained that Virgin didnt change the direct debit 
details when she called them in March 2020. In their email to Mrs J on 8 June 2021, Virgin 
apologised for the confusion and frustration they had caused. 
Having considered everything, on balance, I think its likely Virgin didnt change Mrs Js 
direct debit details for her loan agreement. However, I also think Virgin wrote to Mrs J 
regularly in the months following their error, to tell her that the loan account remained in 
arrears. I say this because Ive seen copies of the letters sent, along with Virgins contact 
records.
In all the circumstances, I accept Mrs J took steps to resolve her concerns about the direct 
debit. And I think its likely Virgin didnt fully follow her instruction. But, I dont think Mrs J 
responded to the further arrears letters sent by Virgin, or that she took action to repay the 
arrears that had accrued on the loan account. 
I can see that Mrs J has told us that she responded to messages from Virgin to bring her 
account up to date. After looking carefully at the loan account statements, I cannot see that 
Mrs J made payments to fully clear the arrears. I can see that a card payment was made in 
September 2019, to meet that months payment. But, other than that, I dont think Mrs J took 
steps to bring the account up to date.
Im aware Mrs J had a separate direct debit for her airtime contract. While I havent 
considered the payments under the airtime contract, it may be that Mrs J is referring to that, 
rather than her agreement with Virgin.
Ive looked at everything Mrs J and Virgin have told us. I think arrears had accrued on 
Mrs Js loan account and despite some confusion over the direct debit, I think Virgin made 
Mrs J aware regularly of how much and when she needed to repay. So, I dont think Virgin 
acted unreasonably, when they sent a termination notice for the fixed sum loan agreement to 
Mrs J.Ive gone on to consider Mrs Js responsibility towards the current outstanding balance of the 
loan agreement. I think Mrs J has had use of the handset since she first took out the 
agreement. I acknowledge that she may not use the handset anymore, but I think Virgin 
supplied her with the item she took out the loan for.
Furthermore, Mrs Js loan agreement with Virgin meant she was contracted to make 
payments for the handset every month, for around two years. Although Virgin have 
terminated the agreement, Mrs J is still responsible for the repayments due under it.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Virgin to ask Mrs J to pay for the handset she 
received and had the use of.
Mrs J still owes around half of the amount she borrowed from Virgin to buy the handset. It 
may be possible for Mrs J to settle the balance of the loan in one lump sum. Or, Mrs J may 
find it easier to come to a repayment arrangement with Virgin. Either way, I remind Virgin of 
their responsibility to treat Mrs Js financial circumstances with forbearance and due 
consideration.
Ive found that the loan statements for Mrs Js agreement show that she hasnt made a 
payment to Virgin since January 2020. Ive also concluded that its fair for Mrs J to make the 
repayments to Virgin, for the balance owed to the loan for the handset. 
It follows that any missed payment information passed to a credit reference agency during 
this time, is a reflection of what happened with the fixed sum loan. I understand the impact 
this will have on Mrs Js credit file. But, I dont think Virgin needs to amend that information 
or pay her compensation for taking that action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman