DRN-2942727
The complaint
Miss Ls complaint is that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) wont reimburse her after she said she 
was the victim of fraud.
What happened
Miss L has a credit card account with NewDay. From December 2016 three charges started 
leaving her account each month, each seemingly to a different merchant and for a total of 
around £150.
Miss L noticed these charges for the first time in December 2017 and contacted NewDay to 
ask about them. She was told her card had been used to enter into the subscription services 
the charges were in relation to. Miss L contacted the administrator for the merchants 
applying the charges but they didnt have any details of her signing up for the services. They 
refunded one months charge from all three merchants to her.
Miss L originally made a complaint to NewDay about the disputed transaction in June 2018. 
NewDay responded several times over the following years but doesnt appear to have fully 
investigated her complaint or passed the complaint to its fraud department as it said it would. 
It offered her £100 by way of compensation for the delays.
In March 2020, after the complaint was brought to our service, NewDay again responded to 
Miss Ls complaint. It said the fraud shed reported wasnt considered typical fraud and as it 
had previously advised her to contact the merchant about the dispute, no fraud dispute had 
been raised.
Miss L was unhappy with NewDays response. She told us she didnt enter into the 
subscriptions herself but that no-one in her life wouldve had access to her card and she 
didnt know when an unknown third party mightve stolen her details.
I issued a provisional decision earlier in year and which said that:
I didnt think Miss L had been able to provide any plausible explanation as to how 
someone couldve accessed her card details or card without her knowledge. I also 
felt the transactions she was disputing didnt carry any of the usual hallmarks of fraud 
and thought it was unclear why she hadnt noticed £150 debiting her account each 
month for over a year. On balance, I didnt feel there was sufficient evidence her card 
details had been stolen by a third party and used without her consent. So I thought it 
was more likely than not shed authorised the payments.
The investigator who originally considered the case thought Miss L had unknowingly 
entered into a continuous payment authority (CPA). They thought this because the 
website detailed on her statements didnt provide any information about a CPA or 
how a subscription might work. Because she wasnt informed she was entering into a 
CPA, she couldnt have authorised the payments and NewDay should refund them to 
her. I didnt agree. I visited the websites the subscriptions were linked to and thought 
it was likely the terms and conditions were clear about the cost of the subscriptions. 
So I didnt agree there were reasonable grounds to ask NewDay to refund the 
payments.
Miss L didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary she said that:
NewDay had failed to investigate her complaint sufficiently or promptly and she felt it 
shouldve frozen the interest accrued on the disputed payments while it looked into 
things.
A new card linked to her account had gone missing around the time the subscriptions 
were entered into and NewDay hadnt provided sufficient information about this.
She uses her card online and in store a great deal which provides lots of opportunity 
for fraudsters to obtain her details.
Whilst she checked her statements regularly, she would generally check the overall 
balance rather than the full breakdown of transactions which is why she didnt notice 
the payments leaving her account. Shes also explained how difficult her 
circumstances were at the time which meant checking her credit card statements 
wasnt a priority for her.
She felt she was being penalised for a period of her life when she wasnt paying as 
much attention to her finances as she generally wouldve and that NewDay was not 
being held accountable for its failure to prevent fraudulent activity on her account.
Id mentioned the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in my provisional decision, but 
the payments started in 2016, so she questioned their relevance in her case.
Id reference the terms and conditions available on the subscription sites going back 
to December 2017, but her payments had started in December 2016 so she wasnt 
sure these terms and conditions applied.
NewDay responded and accepted the provisional decision so didnt have any further 
information it wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional information Miss L has provided very carefully but overall, Im 
not persuaded to change my mind. I wont repeat everything Ive said in my provisional 
decision (and have summarised above) but I would like to address Miss Ls ongoing 
concerns.
Have there been any plausible points of compromise?
Miss L has said she thinks there have been points of compromise in her case. Shes said 
she uses her card online and in stores a lot. So at any point someone couldve obtained her 
details. But anyone with a credit card will likely use it online or in store to make purchases. 
And on the whole, merchants are usually required to have measures in place to protect the 
payment information used. So I dont think general day to day use of a card alone provides 
plausible evidence a third party likely accessed Miss Ls payment details and used them 
without her consent when considered alongside the other information in this case.
In response to my provisional decision she also raised for the first time a replacement card 
shes said went missing in September/October 2016, a couple of months before the 
subscriptions started. But, on balance, Im not persuaded this would provide a plausible point 
of compromise.Its not clear to me why, if a fraudster went to the lengths of intercepting Miss Ls card, they 
wouldve held on to it for over two months before attempting to use it. I say this because as 
soon as the new card didnt reach the intended recipient its likely it would be cancelled and a 
new one sent out. So its unclear why a thief wouldve held on to it for several months, 
risking the cancellation, before attempting to use it. 
It also appears from her statements Miss Ls card was used throughout October and 
November 2016 when the subscriptions were likely entered into and shes not disputed 
these transactions. It seems unlikely she wouldve been able to keep using her card if a 
replacement had been intercepted and activated without her knowledge.
But overall, it seems unlikely someone would go to trouble of intercepting a card, wait for two 
months and then only attempt activity which might be cancelled a month later. Although 
some fraud is opportunistic and I wouldnt say it follows a particular pattern, in this case, 
what Miss L has described doesnt carry any of the hallmarks of how this type of fraud tends 
to be perpetrated.
Ive noted Miss Ls comments about not checking her statements in detail each month and 
the reasons why, and Im sorry to hear of the circumstances shes described. I can see why, 
given this, she might not have checked her transaction history in detail each month. But my 
findings are not only based on the fact she didnt raise concerns about the payments sooner. 
When considering everything in the round, I dont think theres sufficient evidence Miss L has 
more likely than not been the victim of a scam. I think its more likely than not she authorised 
the payments shes disputing.
And it does seem pertinent to note the unexpected subscription charges in this case have 
applied after the end of a free trial because the subscriptions seemingly werent cancelled, 
during a period of Miss Ls life where shes said, due to her circumstances, she couldnt 
concentrate on her finances.
Are the PSRs 2017 relevant in this case?
In my provisional decision Ive said the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017) 
were relevant in Miss Ls case. Miss L has pointed out that the payments in question started 
in December 2016  before the PSRs 2017 were in effect. And Im sorry for any confusion 
caused, shes correct in pointing out these regulations wouldnt apply in her case.
The regulations that apply in her case are actually the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(PSRs 2009), specifically sections 55 and 57. These sections set out that a payment has 
been authorised when the payer has consented to the payment being made, and has used 
the payment instrument and agreed process as set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account.
In the PSRs 2017, which is a revision of the PSRs 2009, the same is set out under sections 
67 and 72. And its the overall definition of authorisation, which is the same in both PSRs 
2009 and 2017, that I have relied on when reaching my decision.
Although Im sorry for any confusion caused, I remain satisfied Miss L likely authorised the 
payments in line with the definition of authorisation set out in the PSRs 2009 which are the 
relevant regulations in her case.
The terms and conditions on the subscriptions sitesMiss L has not said the subscription sites werent clear about the fact she was entering into a 
continuous payment authority (CPA). So her testimony doesnt provide any evidence this 
was the case back in November/December 2016 when the subscriptions were entered into. 
However, the investigator made this assumption when they reached their findings on Miss 
Ls complaint and upheld it on this basis. They felt because there was no clear information 
about a CPA they could see, Miss L couldnt have authorised the payments because she 
didnt know she was agreeing to make any.
I felt it was necessary to address this point in my provisional decision. In her response to the 
provisional decision, Miss L has questioned how the terms and conditions from December 
2017 are relevant in her case as the payments started the year before. So I wanted to clarify 
my position on this point.
From what I can see from my own independent visits to the subscription sites, which is 
limited because I dont have subscriptions, the terms and conditions are available and clear 
information about the payments due is provided. And I dont have any reason to believe this 
wouldnt have always been the case. Again, this is not an argument or complaint Miss L has 
ever made as shes said she didnt visit the sites at all.
In my provisional decision I mentioned that currently, the terms and conditions on each of 
the subscription sites the payments were linked to were clear about the fact that a monthly 
fee would be charged after an initial trial period. I also explained that I could only see the 
current version of each website and I was mindful of the fact Miss L wouldve accessed 
these sites several years ago. Although I couldnt know for sure what they said at the time, I 
thought it was more likely than not the merchants gave her sufficient information about the 
payments she was making and therefore they were authorised.
Id also used and archive website search and could see that as far back as December 2017, 
the same terms and conditions had been displayed on the sites. Before this, as far as I can 
see, its not possible to access what the terms and conditions say. So I cant see any 
information about this before this point.
Because the merchants appear to have provided the same information as far back as 
December 2017, I think its more likely than not they also provided this information in 
December 2016.
But again, I dont think theres any evidence in this case to suggest Miss L wasnt given 
sufficient information about the payments she was making. So as Ive outlined above, I think 
its more likely than not she authorised them and is liable for them.
Was NewDays investigation sufficient?
Whilst I think NewDay couldve answered Miss Ls complaints sooner than it did, I havent 
seen any reason she was unable to bring the complaint to our service sooner if she wasnt 
happy with the time things were taking. And ultimately, she did bring the complaint to our 
service before she received what she felt was a sufficient response from NewDay. From 
what I understand, NewDay has made a payment of £100 in recognition of these delays.
Miss L has said NewDay couldve frozen the interest while it looked into things but theres no 
requirement for it to do so. If it had found the payments hadnt been authorised by her she 
wouldnt have been liable for any interest. And whilst I can see NewDay took a long time to 
answer her complaint and additional interest wouldve been accrued during this period, as 
Ive mentioned, it seems she reasonably couldve brought the complaint to our service 
sooner than she did to mitigate any loss.Overall, I think NewDay has reached a reasonable conclusion in holding Miss L liable for the 
payments shes disputed.  So this amount is subject to the interest set out in the terms and 
conditions of her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman