DRN-1979396
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out on a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax at the time, mis-sold 
them the PPI.
What happened
Mr M took out a PPI policy with his mortgage in 2003. The monthly premiums payable at that 
time were £31.36. Upon a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim, the PPI 
would have provided a monthly benefit of £317.65 for up to 24 months per claim. If a 
successful claim was made under the life or critical illness cover this would pay out a lump 
sum benefit.
In 2004 Mrs M was added to the mortgage and the PPI. At this time the monthly premiums 
payable for PPI changed to £29.81 (variable). And the PPI provided a 50/50 benefit split - 
upon a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim they would have received 
£158.82 each for up to 24 months per claim. Again, if a successful claim was made under 
the life or critical illness cover, this would pay out a lump sum benefit
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
sale of the PPI in 2003
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, due to the length of time since the policy was sold, there isnt any 
documentary evidence available from the sale of the PPI. So, Ive considered what both 
parties have said in order to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Mr M says he wasnt aware the PPI was optional, and it wasnt discussed at the time of the 
sale. But I havent seen anything to support what Mr M has said and he hasnt been able to 
remember anything else specific from the time the policy was sold. While this isnt surprising, 
given the policy was sold to him more than 17 years ago, its difficult to rely on his limited 
recollection alone to fairly and reasonably conclude that something untoward happened.
On the other hand, Halifax says that the optional nature of the policy wouldve been
explained to Mr M in good time before the sale of the PPI was concluded. And as I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that it 
was added without Mr Ms consent - I think thats likely to have been the case. So, on the 
balance of probabilities, and without any evidence to support what Mr M has said, I think its 
more likely than not that Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr M chose to take it 
out  although I can understand if he cant remember this now.
Mr M says Halifax didnt give him any advice when it sold him the PPI. But Halifax says that 
as the sale took place in a meeting it thinks that advice was given. So, Ive decided to 
consider this as an advised sale in my decision, as even if a recommendation was given, I 
think the recommendation was suitable for the reasons set out below. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time the PPI was sold to him, I think 
the policy was suitable for him. For example, it looks like Mr M wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seem to have had a need for the cover. Even 
though Mr M was entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time, the PPI wouldve paid 
out for longer than this wouldve lasted and in addition to his employee sick pay. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
sale of the PPI in 2004
In 2004, Mrs M was added to the mortgage and PPI. And so, Ive considered both their 
circumstances from around that time and I still dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Again, there arent any documents available from the time the PPI was amended to include 
Mrs M, but Mr and Mrs M chose to add Mrs M to an existing policy. So, I think they were 
aware the policy existed at this time. Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs M said about 
not having an option about the PPI, but with no evidence to support this Im not persuaded 
by what theyve said alone. So, I think its more likely than not that they chose to add Mrs M 
to the PPI at this time.
I have also considered this as an advised sale, and from what Ive seen, I think this policy
was suitable for them. Ive also considered the information they were given at the time, and
while I think this could have been clearer, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to
their decision to take out the policy.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs M have said but I still dont think they were mis-sold
PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold in 2003, or when it was 
amended in 2004.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman