DRN-4006695
The complaint
Mr T complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) restricted and then closed his account without 
warning. He also complains that two transactions hed received for selling goods were 
returned to the remitting account and that a fraud marker has been registered against him 
unfairly. 
To put things right Mr T wants Monzo to return the money it sent to the remitter along with 
10% interest, remove the fraud marker and compensate him for the substantive distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr T says he sold two gaming consoles to someone after advertising them on a social media 
site on 7 October 2021. He adds that he sold two more consoles a few days later to the 
same individual. Both payments to Mr T for the goods were made using bank transfer. 
A few days later Monzo blocked Mr Ts account, and he was asked to provide information to 
show his entitlement to the two payments hed received of £1,200 respectively. Around a 
week later, Monzo informed Mr T that it had decided to close his account immediately and 
the two payments would be returned to source  that is, the remitting accounts. 
Mr T later found out that Monzo had also registered a CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System) misuse of facility marker against him. Mr T says that this has caused 
him substantive distress and inconvenience, especially as he was told by another bank, 
which he has a commercial account with, that it would withdraw the service from him. Mr T 
says the prospect of losing his livelihood through this business account caused him severe 
anxiety.
Mr T complained to Monzo, who did not uphold his complaint. In short Monzo said: 
- The closure of Mr Ts account was done correctly and Monzo followed its internal 
procedures and acted in line with our regulatory obligations when doing so
- The CIFAs marker was applied correctly 
- Monzo will credit Mr Ts account with £25 as an apology for not addressing all his 
complaint points in its first response to him 
Unhappy with Monzos answer, Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint, and they did not uphold it. Later, Mr T made 
further responses, and his complaint was re-opened and allocated to another of our 
Investigators. 
Mr T had also corresponded with Monzo directly explaining the impact of the CIFAS marker. 
At that point Monzo decided it would remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr T £175 
compensation. Mr T was happy the marker was going to be removed but believed he should 
be paid more compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.  
So, our Investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint again taking into account his new 
arguments. In summary they recommended Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Some of the 
key findings they made were: 
- Monzo acted in line with its obligations when restricting and reviewing Mr Ts account 
- Monzo should not have closed Mr Ts account immediately, but it should have given 
him the two months notice as per its terms and conditions
- Monzo has important obligations to verify funds in its customers accounts, and its 
reasons for doing this with Mr T were fair. But considering the information Mr T gave 
Monzo, it should have continued its review. But Monzo didnt do this, instead it 
decided to return the funds to source. Given the information Mr T has given this 
service - something Monzo should have explored more in its review - he has 
provided sufficient evidence to show entitlement to the funds
- To put things right, Monzo should pay Mr T £2,400 plus 8% simple interest from 
25 October 2021 till settlement. And it should pay Mr T £300 for compensation for the 
inconvenience its caused 
Mr T accepted our Investigators recommendations. Monzo did not agree. Though I wont 
set out exactly everything Monzo have said, Id like to assure it that Ive carefully read 
everything its sent. Some of the key points are: 
- Mr Ts proof of entitlement to the funds isnt enough. Thats because the references 
for the payments he received did not match with the goods he was selling, and the 
purchaser paid more than agreed 
- The additional information Mr T provided to this service did not change its mind 
- It had done nothing wrong in closing the account immediately and it had concern 
enough to take the actions it did 
- Mr Ts account activity doesnt match with it being used for buying gifts for friends 
and family as well as for receiving money from personal items he sold on social 
media platforms. Monzo had concerns the account was being used for business 
purposes 
As Monzo didnt agree, Mr Ts complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr T and Monzo have said 
before reaching my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Monzo 
has provided is information I consider should be kept confidential.
Account review and restrictions 
Banks in the UK, like Monzo, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Monzos reasons for reviewing and restricting Mr Ts account, Im satisfied 
its acted in line with its obligations when doing so. 
Return to source and Account closure 
Afters asking Mr T for information relating to the two payments mentioned above, and some 
other transactions, Monzo decided to send the two £1,200 payments back to the remitting 
accounts. Monzo argue that it had enough information and concern to have done this and so 
hasnt acted improperly. 
Ive carefully reviewed all the information I have in relation to the two transactions and 
having done so Im persuaded that Mr T was most likely entitled to these funds. Mr T has 
given me screenshots of messages and online receipts which show he purchased the goods 
and had agreed to sell them to the same party. Hes also shown that he was selling these 
goods through a social media platform. 
I also think the evidence backs up his explanation as to why the purchaser overpaid slightly. 
Mr Ts messages show that he gave them an extra controller for this. So given I think the 
funds were legitimate payments for the goods he sold, Im persuaded he was entitled to the 
funds. 
Mr T had no control as to who the payments were made from nor what reference they used. 
I also think Monzos review of these payments fell short of what Id expect it to have done. 
Had Monzo carried out a proper review I think  on balance  it would have received enough 
information to satisfy itself that Mr T had acted legitimately, and he had received those funds 
in good faith. 
In turn, Monzo would not have returned the funds to source. So, I think Mr T has been 
deprived of funds he was entitled to. 
I do however think Mr Ts statement that he was selling personal items on social media using 
his Monzo account has been unhelpful. I say that because it appears he was buying goods 
and then selling them at profit as an enterprise. The volume of consoles he purchased, and 
given he was buying other goods, some which he agreed to source for the customers of the 
two £1,200 payments, shows he wasnt merely selling personal items. So because of this, I 
can understand why Monzo found his explanation overall less plausible.
Monzos terms of account do allow it to close a personal account if it is being used for 
business purposes. But I would expect it to have given Mr T a warning before doing so. That brings me onto the account closure itself.  Monzo is entitled to close an account just as 
Mr T may close it. But before Monzo closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Monzo and Mr T had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Ive looked carefully at Monzos terms and having done so I think that had it carried out 
proper due diligence around Mr Ts entitlement to the funds, its more likely it would have 
given him two months notice of closure. 
So that means I think it had reason enough to close the account, but not in the way it did. 
But I think this had little impact on Mr T given this wasnt his main account nor did he have to 
sort out regular payments from it. So I wont be compensating him for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by the closure. 
CIFAS marker 
I note Monzo has said it removed the marker, but given I need to consider any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr T by its application, I will need to draw finding on whether it was 
applied fairly or not. 
Thats because if it was applied fairly, Monzo would most likely not have to pay Mr T any 
compensation. Nor has Monzo accepted it applied this incorrectly - but removed it because 
of the impact it had on Mr T.
The marker Monzo had filed with CIFAS was intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, Monzos not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt Mr T is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. 
CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Ts account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Having 
looked at the information Monzo have given me; Im satisfied fraudulent funds entered Mr Ts 
account.
Secondly, Monzo will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Monzo had 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for a misuse of facility with 
CIFAS.For the reasons which Ive already explained, Im persuaded Mr T wasnt deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the funds and that he didnt know they were illegitimate. Nor, from the 
evidence Ive seen, do I think he was complicit in any way. That means I thinks its most likely 
he was unwitting. Because of this I dont think Monzo had enough information to meet the 
standard of proof required to load such a marker in the first place  though I accept its now 
been removed albeit without any liability being taken by Monzo.  
Mr T says that when he found out about the marker it caused him severe distress, especially 
as he faced the prospect of being expelled from his business account that he held with other 
partners. So given Monzo were wrong to apply this, Im satisfied it needs to compensate 
Mr T for any distress or inconvenience he suffered whilst it was in place. 
I note Mr T didnt lose his business account, so I dont need to think about any financial loss 
here. Also, in making an award, Ive thought about whether Mr T saying he was selling 
personal items is a mitigating factor. And I think it is. I say that because had he been more 
candid about his use of the account, its possible Monzo would have had less cause for 
concern. 
So after carefully weighing this up, Im satisfied £300 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr T has suffered for Monzo incorrectly applying a CIFAS marker and for 
returning his funds to source.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd must: 
- Pay Mr T £2,400. And it should pay Mr T 8% simple interest on this amount from 
25 October 2021 until settlement*
- Remove the CIFAS marker (if it hasnt done so already)
- Pay Mr T £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered    
* If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must now put things right as 
directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman