DRN-3843199
The complaint
Mr S complains about Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarns (Moneybarn) 
decision to lend him.
What happened
Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in August 2021 to acquire a 
used car. The car cost £17,995. Mr S paid a deposit of £516.83 and under the agreement, 
Mr S was required to make 59 monthly payments of £585.47. The car was acquired from a 
dealership Ill refer to as D.
In December 2021, no payment was made towards the agreement. Mr S told Moneybarn he 
missed the payment due to a change in date of when he received payments into his account. 
Moneybarn changed Mr Ss payment date but as a result of this, Mr S was required to make 
two payments under the agreement in the same month. 
Mr S complained to Moneybarn. In February 2022, Moneybarn issued its response to Mr Ss 
complaint. It accepted it didnt make it clear that Mr S was required to make two payments in 
the same month. By way of compensation, it reduced Mr Ss outstanding balance by £50. 
Following this, in March 2022, Moneybarn received a Direct Debit Indemnity claim (DDIC) 
for all the payments made by Mr S under this agreement. Mr S said Moneybarn had lent to 
him irresponsibly and so, he made the DDIC. He also cancelled his monthly Direct Debit 
instruction. Mr S also later told Moneybarn he was experiencing issues with the car. So 
Moneybarn told Mr S about the available options to allow him to end his agreement. 
Moneybarn also raised a complaint for Mr S.
In April 2022, Moneybarn issued its response to Mr Ss complaint. It upheld Mr Ss complaint 
about the lending decision it had made and said it had evidence to suggest Mr Ss income 
may have been insufficient at the time he made the lending application. It said it should have 
undertaken further investigations before agreeing to lend to Mr S. To put things right, 
Moneybarn said it would amend Mr Ss credit file, reduce his outstanding balance to £0 and 
then apply a fair usage charge. It said Mr Ss final balance would be dependent on the date 
he returned the car.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said whilst collecting the 
car from D, he was told he would need to return the car to D to have the engine serviced. He 
said whilst driving home, warnings appeared on the dashboard of the car and he had to pull 
over to inflate two of the tyres. He said he called Moneybarn but it referred him back to D. 
Following this, it was established there were a number of issues with the car which needed 
repairing. Mr S took D to the small claims court to decide these issues. After mediation 
through the court, D paid him £600 in full and final settlement of his complaint.  
Mr S also said the agreement was unaffordable and Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to him. 
He said his DDIC was reversed in April 2022, which left his account overdrawn. Mr S said 
whilst Moneybarn had upheld his complaint, it wouldnt allow him to keep the car. Mr S said 
the car was essential for him and he wouldnt leave the house without it. He also said 
Moneybarn had affected his mental health, as it said it would remove the car from him. 
To put things right, Mr S said he wanted Moneybarn to rectify his overdraft, allow him to 
keep the car, clear his credit file, compensate him for the trauma caused, cover any costs 
incurred in the process and apologise.
Since Mr S referred his complaint to this service, Moneybarn issued a default notice in     
May 2022 and told Mr S it would collect the car from him. However, Mr S told Moneybarn he 
wouldnt return the car.
Mr S also made a number of further complaints to Moneybarn. He referred one of these 
complaints to this service in June 2022. In this complaint, Mr S said that due to his 
vulnerabilities, he didnt understand the agreement he had entered into. He said Moneybarn 
should end the agreement but allow him to keep the car. In response, Moneybarn said Mr S 
had signed the conditional sale agreement before he was supplied with the car. It said it only 
became aware of Mr Ss vulnerability when he told it about this in his complaint about the 
lending decision Moneybarn had made. It didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S said Moneybarn was made aware about his vulnerabilities before making its lending 
decision. He said the car needed repairing and he had spent money trying to make some 
repairs. He said Moneybarn had impacted his mental health and said there were calls which 
would demonstrate this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the resolution Moneybarn had offered 
was fair and reasonable and so, he said Mr S would need to return the car to Moneybarn. He 
said if Moneybarn continued to allow Mr S to keep the car, it would put him in a worse 
financial position and this isnt something that this service would recommend. Our 
investigator also said he didnt think Moneybarn should allow Mr S to take out another 
agreement for this car with reduced payments. 
Our investigator said the evidence Mr S had sent concerning the repairs he had carried out 
didnt suggest that the issues with the car were present or developing at the point the car 
was supplied to Mr S; and they appeared to be issues caused due to wear and tear which Mr 
S would be responsible for. He also noted that Mr S had received relief through the courts 
and so, our service would be limited in making findings about the quality of the car. He also 
said that he had listened to a number of calls and reviewed emails between Mr S and 
Moneybarn. He said he didnt think Moneybarn had provided poor service during this 
correspondence.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn was entitled to charge Mr S for fair usage once he 
returned the car to it. He also said that Moneybarn had an obligation to treat Mr S with 
forbearance and due consideration and so, Moneybarn should arrange a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr S for any outstanding balance he owed.
Mr S said he didnt think the issues that had occurred were due to wear and tear and that 
Moneybarn had been selective in the calls it had sent this service. He said he didnt think he 
should incur any costs for the use of the car and that our investigator didnt consider the 
stress and trauma caused to him.
Our investigator said Mr S should contact Moneybarn in the first instance to complain about 
a specific call, if he was unhappy in the way he had been treated. He said he had considered 
the impact to Mr S, but he didnt think Moneybarn had acted unfairly. He also said that 
Moneybarn was entitled to charge Mr S for fair usage, as he had access to the car since 
August 2021, despite not making all the payments for it.
Since then, Moneybarn has said Mr S has said he will only return the car if Moneybarn 
guarantees that it will reimburse him for any replacement parts and if not, hell send the car 
back with the parts missing. Moneybarn said it declined this and told Mr S it will review his 
costs once the car had been returned to it. It said Mr S refused and said he would place the 
car on private property so it couldnt be recovered. Mr S has also made a further complaint to Moneybarn about the repairs hes had carried out 
and the parts hes had replaced. Hes also complained about the calls he had with 
Moneybarn, the impact of the failed DDIC to his overdraft and the information it has provided 
this service. Mr S also told Moneybarn he would be taking legal action. 
Mr S remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr S has made a number of complaint points after referring his complaint to this service. 
However, this decision will only focus on the lending decision made by Moneybarn and 
whether Moneybarn was aware of Mr Ss vulnerabilities at the time it made its lending 
decision. This is because Mr S has recently referred his other outstanding complaint points 
to Moneybarn. If Mr S remains unhappy with Moneybarns response to these complaint 
points, hell be entitled to refer a separate complaint about these issues to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S has raised a number of 
different points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. The 
rules of our service allow me to do this.
In this case, Moneybarn has accepted that it shouldnt have lent to Mr S. As there is no 
dispute about this, I havent considered whether Moneybarn made a fair lending decision. 
Instead, this Ill focus on whether Moneybarns offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
In April 2022, Moneybarn said it would do the following to settle Mr Ss complaint, following 
the termination of the agreement and return of the car:
Initially, we will reduce your current outstanding balance to zero.
Then we will apply a fair usage charge to your balance. This is dependent on the 
date of the return of the vehicle. Fair usage is applied as a reasonable cost for the 
use of a vehicle and the depreciation that occurs.
This will leave a final balance owed by you dependent of the return date of the 
vehicle.
Moneybarn also said it would amend Mr Ss credit file to show no negative impact caused by 
this agreement. 
Mr S disagrees with this offer and says Moneybarn should allow him to keep the car. 
However, Im satisfied that what Moneybarn has said it will do upon the car being returned 
by Mr S is fair and reasonable. Had Moneybarn not made this offer and I had determined 
that the lending decision made by Moneybarn was unfair, my decision would be along the 
same lines. 
Mr S doesnt want to return the car and thinks a fair usage figure shouldnt be applied. He 
says that if Moneybarn had declined to lend to him, he wouldnt have made any payments 
towards this agreement. 
Ive thought about this carefully. But having done so, Im satisfied Money is entitled to 
recover the car from Mr S and that it is entitled to charge Mr S for fair usage. Ill explain why.All parties agree that Moneybarn shouldnt have provided lending to Mr S. So, Im satisfied 
that in light of this, the agreement should be ended and the car should be returned to 
Moneybarn. Mr S has also been in possession of the car since August 2021 and he has had 
access to the car to make use of it. Currently its unclear how much use Mr S has had as 
there isnt any up to date mileage or a report to confirm the condition of the car. But I think 
Mr S should pay for use of the car hes had. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr 
S to be allowed to drive the car without making any payments to Moneybarn, given he has 
currently been in possession of it for around 16 months. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly that he should be able to keep the car and he has 
told us about the impact of the lending decision on him. However, I think it would be harmful 
to allow Mr S to keep the car, as he would have a substantial financial obligation for an 
extended period of time, as per the terms of the agreement. In light of this, it would be fair for 
Moneybarn to collect the car to limit any further financial obligation upon Mr S. I note Mr S 
has asked Moneybarn to allow him to make reduced payments and allow him to keep the 
car. But there is no obligation upon Moneybarn to do this in the circumstances and I dont 
think it would be appropriate for Moneybarn to do this, given the arrears owed under the 
agreement and Mr Ss financial circumstances.
I also accept that Mr S has been caused considerable stress after Moneybarn told him that it 
would need to collect the car. But I dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong when it told 
him this. Moneybarn also agreed to end the agreement in April 2022, but Mr S didnt allow it 
to collect the car. So, I dont think Mr S has mitigated his loss by continuing to keep hold of 
the car and I think in doing so, this has contributed to the ongoing stress hes suffered. 
It follows that I think the offer made by Moneybarn in April 2022 is fair and reasonable. 
Having said this, if Mr S returns the car and is unhappy with the fair usage figure applied by 
Moneybarn, he can refer a complaint about this to this service. Id also take the opportunity 
to remind Moneybarn of its obligations to treat Mr S with forbearance and due consideration 
if there is an outstanding balance payable by Mr S, once the car is returned to it. 
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also considered that Mr S has said he didnt understand the agreement. Mr S says 
Moneybarn was aware of his disability and his vulnerability, but it still agreed to lend to him.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement and I can see that the agreement clearly 
explains the cost of the finance, the deposit, the monthly amount repayable and how Mr S 
can exit the agreement. And so, I think the agreement is clear and explains Mr Ss 
obligations.
Mr S has mentioned his disability as a reason to why Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to him. 
However, I wouldnt consider that a lender acted fairly and reasonably if it declined a lending 
application solely on the basis of a prospective borrowers disability. Indeed, such a lending 
policy is likely to be unlawful. So, Im satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly when it 
refused to decline Mr Ss application, on the sole basis of his disability at the time he entered 
into the agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) provides 
guidance on things a firm needs to consider when thinking about whether a customer has 
the mental capacity to enter into an agreement. CONC 2.10.4 says: A firm should assume a 
customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made, unless the firm 
knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or reasonably suspects, 
that the customer lacks capacity.
In this case, Mr S says he told Moneybarn about his vulnerabilities when he took out the 
agreement. However, Mr S made the lending application remotely. He says the lending 
decision was made and he was told he could go and choose a car, so he did this and visited 
a dealership to collect the car. Mr S said he told the dealership about his vulnerabilities when he went to collect the car. Its unclear whether this happened. But even if I accept it did, this 
was after the lending decision had been made. So, I dont think Moneybarn would have been 
likely aware that Mr S had a disability or that he had any vulnerabilities at the time it 
approved the lending application. 
In addition, the guidance set out in CONC 2.10.4 states that Moneybarn should assume     
Mr S had mental capacity at the time the decision had to be made. Mr S hasnt provided any 
supporting information to suggest that his vulnerabilities or disability mean that he lacked the 
capacity to enter into this agreement. And I think its unlikely Moneybarn was aware or 
suspected that Mr S lacked capacity to enter into the contract. So I dont think Moneybarn 
acted unfairly when it assumed Mr S had mental capacity to enter into the agreement.
In addition, even if I thought Moneybarn should have reasonably been aware that Mr S may 
lack the capacity to enter into the contract at the time it made the lending decision and so, it 
shouldnt have lent to him, my decision would remain the same. This is because Im satisfied 
the overall offer Moneybarn made to Mr S in April 2022 to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
Moneybarn No.1 Limited has already made an offer to settle the complaint. I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Moneybarn No.1 Limited should settle the complaint in line with its 
offer made in April 2022, after the car is returned to it by Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman