DRN-3262204
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly closed her accounts. 
Shes also unhappy about the service she was provided by staff and says the bank failed to 
make reasonable adjustments.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs H visited a branch to complete a banking transaction. She was unhappy 
with the service she received  in particular she was unhappy that the staff asked her a 
number of questions about the source of funds in her account and the purpose of the 
withdrawal. Mrs H expressed her dissatisfaction and explained that she was suffering from a 
terminal illness and needed to get her affairs in order.
 
Mrs H complained to Halifax and said that there had been a number of instances over a 
period of months of staff bullying her when she went into branch. And that staff had made 
things deliberately difficulty for her because of her health condition which makes her 
vulnerable. 
Halifax considered Mrs Hs complaint but didnt agree its staff had behaved unreasonably.  
But it noted it had previously warned Mrs H about her behaviour in February 2021, as Mrs H 
had been rude and aggressive in branch towards staff, which had resulted in staff asking 
Mrs H to leave the branch. And that this had been going on since August 2019. It said as it 
had previously warned Mrs H about her behaviour it had now decided to close her accounts. 
The bank initially didnt give Mrs H notice of the account closure, but it later extended the 
deadline by six weeks to ensure Mrs H had enough time to make alternative arrangements. 
Mrs H was unhappy the bank closed her accounts. She said she hasnt done anything wrong 
and the staff are lying about her behaviour in branch and have no right to question her about 
what she does with her money. So, she brought her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. She noted Halifax had 
referred Mrs H to its specialist support team when it became aware of Mrs Hs health issues. 
And it had extended the notice to close period to allow Mrs H more time to make alternative 
banking arrangements. She was also persuaded Mrs H had behaved unreasonably when 
speaking with members of staff at branch. So, she said Halifax had acted fairly and 
reasonably by closing Mrs Hs accounts, which it was entitled to do under the terms and 
conditions of the accounts.
 
Mrs Hs disagreed with what the investigator said about her complaint and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. She said shes never been rude or abusive to staff and 
the bank shouldnt have closed her account given her circumstances. So, she feels she 
should be compensated for how shes been treated by the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that Mrs H is very unwell and Im sorry to hear about that. Id also like to 
apologise for how long Mrs H has had to wait for an answer from us. 
 
I wasnt present during Mrs Hs branch visits when she says she was treated unfairly. And 
there isnt a written record or recording or of what happened which clearly shows Mrs H was 
treated unfairly. Instead, I have testimonies provided by the people involved, namely Mrs H 
and the staff at the branch who dealt with Mrs H. 
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as much of it is here, I must decide the 
complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened based on the information I do have. Having done so Im not persuaded 
Halifax has treated Mrs H unfairly when it closed her accounts. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs H, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Its evident that the relationship between Mrs H and the branch staff had broken down 
irreparably over time. Mrs H has since switched her account to another bank. But she feels 
she should be compensated for the way Halifax treated her. So, Ive considered whether 
Halifax treated Mrs H fairly when it closed her accounts.
 
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, 
their service wont usually say that a bank must compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed in accordance with the terms and conditions.
 
The account terms enable Halifax to close an account, without notice, if a customer has 
been threatening or abusive towards its staff. And it has a policy in place which details how it 
will decide if a customer has been threatening or abusive and what steps it will take if this 
happens. Id expect this policy to be applied consistently and fairly in all circumstances.
 
I can see that Halifax has followed this policy here. As part of its process it complied  a 
report which included speaking to branch staff who had dealt with Mrs H on her visits and 
compiling statements, which were then forwarded on to a senior member of staff to decide 
what action to take. This policy sets out that Halifax will close a customers account if it has 
previously issued a warning letter about the customers behaviour.
Halifax has provided evidence that it first identified that Mrs H had behaved unreasonably 
towards its staff in August 2019. At this time, it was noted that Mrs H was very aggressive, 
shouting and banging her head against the counter screen. The branch notes show that a 
further incident took place in February 2021, when Mrs H became confrontational and 
shouted towards members of staff. On this occasion Mrs H was asked to leave the branch 
and staff warned her theyd call the police if she didnt comply with their request. 
This led to a warning letter being sent to Mrs H which explained the bank found Mrs Hs 
behaviour unacceptable and if she continued to behave unreasonably it would close her 
account. So, Im satisfied that Mrs H understood what Halifax found unacceptable, and what 
action the bank would take if Mrs Hs behaviour continued to be unreasonable.
 
From looking at the branch notes I can see that there were further incidents in April, June, 
and July 2021, which involved Mrs Hs behaviour being considered as threatening and 
abusive by staff when she visited a branch. I appreciate Mrs H doesnt believe she displayed threatening or abusive behaviour towards 
Halifax staff. But people have varying degrees of tolerance when it comes to feeling 
threatened or abused. And its not my role to dictate what Halifax should consider 
threatening or abusive behaviour. 
Im satisfied Halifax gave Mrs H fair warning of what may happen if she continued to behave 
in a way if found unacceptable. Im also satisfied that Halifax fairly and reasonably followed 
its policy when it sought to close Mrs Hs accounts when it considered she had behaved 
unreasonably again. So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong when it closed Mrs Hs 
accounts. 
Mrs H says the bank didnt give her any notice that it was closing her accounts and 
shouldve been more considerate due to her circumstances. I can see that when Halifax took 
the decision to close Mrs Hs accounts, it was conscious of Mrs Hs vulnerabilities due to her 
ill-health. As a result, it extended the notice to allow her more time to organise her finances. I 
think this was a reasonable step to take and was in line with Halifaxs policy.
In summary, having considered everything, while I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling and 
why she feels shes been treated unfairly, Im not persuaded Halifax acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman