DRN-3964838
The complaint
Mrs K, on behalf of the estate of Mr K, complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
handled the late Mr Ks claim for surgery to remove an organ.
What happened
The late Mr K held a private health insurance policy with AXA since 24 February 2015. The 
policy included a Six-week Safety net. This meant that Mr Ks cover was for in-patient 
treatment, day-patient treatment, cancer treatment and any surgical procedure if the NHS 
couldnt give him that treatment within six weeks.
Mrs K says that Mr K contacted AXA in October 2018 to make a claim for surgery to remove 
an organ but he was told there werent any hospitals or surgeons available on AXAs list to 
carry out the surgery. So, Mr K had to wait for three months for the NHS to carry out the 
surgery  which was beyond the six weeks as set out in his policy. So, Mrs K says AXA 
didnt handle Mr Ks claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mrs K also says Mr K was never happy to remain being treated by the NHS due to time 
limits. Overall, Mrs K doesnt think the policy was suitable for Mr K, as he wasnt able to use 
it when he needed it.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. After doing so, he didnt think AXA 
had done anything wrong. He said he hadnt seen evidence of Mr K getting in touch with 
AXA about surgery to remove an organ. He also said that during a call with AXA in 
January 2019, Mr K had said he would continue treatment under the NHS, but he would let 
AXA know if he wanted to move to private care. Overall, our investigator thought that AXA 
had treated Mr K fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my sincere condolences on the passing of Mr K. It must have been 
an extremely stressful time when Mr K was undergoing treatment.
Ive looked through the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, and Ive listened to the call 
recordings AXA has sent us. Ive also reviewed these in light of the notes AXA has provided, 
as well as what Mrs K has said and sent to us.
I can see that in August 2018, AXA authorised consultations and diagnostic tests with a 
specialist for Mr K. In September 2018, he got in touch with AXA about a procedure he was 
due to have later the same month. AXA checked with the specialist if the procedure could be 
carried out by the NHS within six weeks. The specialist advised this wasnt available, so AXA 
authorised the procedure. It took place on 25 September 2018.
On 1 October 2018, Mr K got in touch with AXA about a catheter removal to make sure it 
was covered, and AXA said it was. During this call, AXA asked Mr K to get in touch if he 
wanted to have treatment privately instead of the NHS. AXA also invited him to get in touch 
about any further procedures, and keep it updated.
Based on AXAs notes, the next conversation Mr K had with AXA was on 7 January 2019. 
During this call he said he was calling to give AXA an update. He said the last treatment he 
had privately was a procedure on 25 September 2018. He said that since then, it had been 
recommended that he had surgery to remove an organ, which hed recently had carried out 
by the NHS. Mr K also said that he was looking to continue with his treatment through the 
NHS, but AXA said to let it know if he wanted to be treated privately.
Mrs K says that Mr K had been told in October 2018 that he needed surgery to have an 
organ removed. She says that he had got in touch with AXA about this, but he was told there 
was no hospital or surgeon available on AXAs list to carry out the surgery  so, he had to 
use the NHS instead. Mrs K says AXA shouldve arranged for Mr K to be treated privately 
earlier, as the NHS wasnt able to go ahead with the surgery within six weeks.
AXA doesnt hold any records of Mr K getting in touch about the surgery to remove an organ 
in advance of this happening. And having listened to the call on 7 January 2019, I think the 
conversation supports this. I say this because Mr K said he was calling to update AXA what 
had happened since the procedure on 25 September 2018. Theres nothing during that call 
to suggest that Mr K had been in touch with AXA in the intervening time.
I know Mrs K has a different recollection of Mr Ks discussions with AXA. But having 
considered everything, Im not persuaded that AXA was aware of the surgery to remove an 
organ until after it had already happened. Im also satisfied that during the calls between 
August and October 2018, Mr K was aware that he could ask AXA to be treated privately if 
the treatment wasnt available on the NHS within six weeks, as per the terms of his policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, but I dont think AXA treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances, for the reasons Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman