Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Mr and Mrs D are 
unhappy that, after their initial interest rate product ended in 2013, they werent offered 
another interest rate product. It wasnt until 2017 that Mr and Mrs D switched to a new 
product. They are asking Santander to compensate them for the additional interest they 
have paid.
Mr and Mrs D also complained that in 2010 the mortgage had been mis-sold, and about the 
way Santander had dealt with a complaint in 2019. However, on 25 April 2023 I issued a 
decision explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no jurisdiction to consider 
those matters.
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Santander. They borrowed £110,000 over a 
14-year term on an interest-only basis. The mortgage was on a three-year fixed rate product
which expired in September 2013, following which the mortgage reverted to Santanders
Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
On 7 September 2013, when the product expired, Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs D 
confirming their new monthly payment. The letter said If you have already contacted us to 
arrange a new deal for your mortgage, please ignore this letter, it is automatically generated 
by our system If you would like to discuss the options now available to you please call us 

Mr and Mrs D say that they called Santander in 2013 because they wanted to switch to a 
repayment mortgage, but were told that they were lucky to have the mortgage they had and 
that, because of rule changes, they wouldnt be able to have any other product. 
Because they say they were frightened to death about Santander withdrawing their 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs D remained on SVR and didnt apply for a new rate until 2017. They 
did so at that time because they say they were frustrated, upset and angry that family and 
friends were overpaying their mortgages while they were stuck on SVR, because of fear 
that wed have our mortgage withdrawn and have to sell our home.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that there had been no contact from 
Mr and Mrs D about changing their mortgage in 2013. It wasnt until 2017 that theyd applied 
for a new product.
DRN-4099445Page 2 of 3Mr and Mrs D complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted that since 2013 Santander had 
invited Mr and Mrs D every year to contact the bank to discuss a new product, but they 
hadnt done so until 2017. The investigator didnt think this was Santanders fault.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, in order that 
the matter can be concluded so they can attend court to present our case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information provided by Santander, which is supported by its 
contemporaneous account notes. The notes show that when the product expired in 2013 a 
letter was sent to Mr and Mrs D setting out their new payments and inviting them to contact 
Santander to discuss their options. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs D have said  that they were 
told by Santander that they were lucky to have a mortgage and werent allowed to make any 
changes to it. 
On balance, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D were told they couldnt have a new interest 
rate product in 2013, or at any point after that. There is no record of them applying for a new 
product in Santanders account notes, or making any enquiry about switching to capital 
repayment in 2013. The annual statements provided information inviting Mr and Mrs D to 
contact Santander if they wanted to discuss a new product. 
In any event, once a mortgage completes, Santander is not allowed to withdraw it years 
later; if the mortgage falls into arrears, or there is some other breach of contract, the terms 
and conditions set out what steps Santander can take in those circumstances. But 
Santander cant simply decide to withdraw the mortgage where payments are being made in 
full and on time. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D were told they 
couldnt have a new product, that they were lucky to have the mortgage, or that Santander 
might withdraw it if they wanted to apply for a new product.
I find that Mr and Mrs D were free to apply for a new product from 2013 onwards. They didnt 
do so until 2017, when they took out a new interest rate product on a fixed interest rate 
which ran until 2 December 2022. 
However, I cant hold Santander responsible for Mr and Mrs Ds decision to remain on SVR 
after their initial product expired in 2013. This means that there is no basis on which I can 
fairly order Santander to compensate Mr and Mrs D for additional interest they say they paid 
between 2013 and 2017.
The mortgage term comes to an end in August 2024. I understand Mr and Mrs D are making 
overpayments towards the mortgage. It might assist Mr and Mrs D to speak to a financial 
adviser now to discuss their options for repaying the mortgage balance at the end of the 
term so they will have time to put their repayment strategy in place. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs D wanted. If they dont accept my decision, it 
wont be legally-binding and theyll be free to pursue their grievances against Santander in 
court, as theyve said they intend to. Mr and Mrs D might want to take legal advice from a 
solicitor before beginning any court action.Page 3 of 3My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman