DRN-3023022
The complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy Erudio Student Loans Limited have said shes liable to repay the loans 
shes got with them.
What happened
Mrs M said since 1996 shes had student loans, with around £12,000 owing. The type of 
loans she has allow her to defer payment to the loans if she meets certain criteria  one of 
which relates to her income. Another criteria allows her to ask Erudio to write off the loans 
when she reaches a certain age.
In January 2020 Mrs M started working full time for the first time since taking out the loans. 
This meant her income increased, and she was no longer eligible to defer her loan 
repayments in October 2020 (when her latest deferment ended) as she had previously  
because her income was now higher than the threshold for deferring. But, around this time 
she also became eligible for the age related write off of the debt.
One of the conditions attached to the debt being written off, is that no arrears have built up  
this happens if Mrs M didnt return her deferment forms on time in previous years. If theres 
no deferment, then the payments are due  and if payments arent made, then those 
payments become arrears.
Erudio said, in May 2014 to February 2015, and again in March 2016 to September 2016 
arrears built up as Mrs M didnt return the deferment forms in time. So, because of that, 
unless she were to clear the arrears, she wouldnt be eligible for the loans to be written off.
When speaking to Erudio on the phone, Mrs M understood shed be able to set up a 
repayment plan to clear the arrears, but later found out this wasnt the case  so she 
complained.
Erudio said arrears of £2,431.44 was outstanding from the above two periods when a 
deferment wasnt in place. They said theyd listened to the call Mrs M had with them on 
3 November 2020, and said shed explained she couldnt repay the arrears in one go, so 
thats why she was considering a repayment plan. Erudio said Mrs M told them the arrears 
accrued on her account previously as she didnt realise the importance of returning them on 
time. Before the call Erudio had issued a Notice of Default letter on 11 October 2020, which 
gave Mrs M 28 days to fully clear the arrears, otherwise the account would end. This meant 
shed have to start making payments to it  and this wasnt mentioned in the call but should 
have been.
Overall, Erudio accepted theyd given Mrs M incorrect information about what would happen 
but didnt think this had affected Mrs Ms position about the account not being written off. So, 
they paid her £150 compensation.
Unhappy with this Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
found the arrears had built up fairly, meaning the age-related cancellation wasnt an option  
and although incorrect information had been given, she didnt think thatd changed anything 
for Mrs M.
Mrs M didnt accept this  saying she didnt think itd been made clear enough to her that she 
could have paid at least one of her loan arrears thereby clearing a larger portion of the 
outstanding loan. She said she doesnt think it matters whether she could afford future 
payments or not as that wouldnt be a factor. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point in this case is to decide whether the arrears Erudio said have accrued in 
this time is correct. I say that because it has an impact on the options available to Mrs M. If 
the arrears were correctly accrued, then shes not eligible for the age-related cancellation 
option. If they werent fairly accrued, then she could be.
Arrears accrued between 2014-2016
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments that she didnt realise the importance of returning the forms. 
This is important because if Erudio didnt make it sufficiently clear to her, then it might not be 
fair that arrears did build up  as she might not have understood the impact on her. But, 
having looked at everything thats been provided, Im satisfied Erudio did enough to make 
her aware.
Erudio have provided evidence to say Mrs M was deferring her loan since 2002  so said its 
fair to say she knew about deferring the account, and the implications of what would happen 
if she didnt.
I think thats likely true. Although I dont have all the evidence from 2002 onwards, I can see 
that when Mrs Ms accounts were bought by Erudio they wrote to her letting her know this. In 
letters sent in February 2014, they told her they were aware her account was in deferment 
but those would continue. These letters also set out the process for continuing the 
deferments as well.
Arrears letters were sent in October and November 2014. And I can see on some of them, 
Erudio ask Mrs M to contact them to discuss the outstanding arrears, and say if she doesnt, 
then they might default the account. In addition, some of the letters say This could result in 
you losing the right to defer your loan repayments and to other benefits such as age related 
cancellation.
The letters sent in February, October and November 2014 are all correctly addressed, so I 
think its reasonable to say Mrs M would most likely have received them. 
And I think thats supported by Mrs M getting in touch in November 2014 with Erudio, saying 
sorry for not sending back the forms. She then does in November 2014 but doesnt provide 
the evidence Erudio require. This is ultimately received in May 2015.Mrs M and Erudio have provided an email exchange from July 2016 where Erudio have told 
her shes been in arrears since May 2014  but due to an error on their part in 2015, theyll 
remove a years worth of arrears. Erudio said Mrs M could now apply for a further deferment 
period and upon successful receipt of that theyd roll back another three months worth of 
arrears. Mrs Ms reply to that is to say thank you and It seemed that arrears were added to 
my accounts & there was nothing I could do about it so this is absolutely tremendous news! 
Ill complete an online deferment request ASAP.
I dont think Erudios email is as clear as it could be  as at this time theres still arrears 
outstanding since May 2014, until February 2015  and they could have set this out.
 
But taking into account all of the information Ive been provided with, I think Mrs M did know 
the importance of deferring on time  and had been told about the consequences of not 
doing so.
Ive looked at the two time periods Erudio said Mrs M wasnt in deferment - May 2014 to 
February 2015, and again in March 2016 to September 2016. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest theyve made any errors when applying the arrears for these times. So, I wont be 
asking them to remove the arrears.
Erudios actions in October and November 2020
As a result of finding that the arrears have been fairly accumulated, this means Mrs M isnt 
eligible for the age-related cancellation as Erudio have said.
Mrs M argues though that they told her she could clear the arrears through a payment plan 
when she spoke to them. 
I can see Erudio accept they told her the wrong information  when they said she could set 
up a payment plan to clear the arrears as actually this wasnt an option. The call where they 
told her this was on 3 November 2020, and a notice of default had already been issued on 
11 October 2020 giving Mrs M 28 days to clear the arrears. And, because she didnt, her 
account was then terminated  meaning she could no longer get the age-related 
cancellation.
In the call, Mrs M also says she cant afford to clear the arrears  as shes in arrears with 
other priority debts. So, although she was told the wrong information, I dont think thats 
changed the situation shes in. Shes quite clear and detailed in not being able to pay the 
arrears. Had things happened as they should, then Erudio would have reminded her she had 
to clear the arrears in line with the 11 October 2020 letter  to which shed seemingly have 
said she couldnt do that  because she couldnt afford much more than she was already 
paying.
Mrs M said it doesnt matter whether she could afford future payments or not  theyve still 
given her the wrong information. I take her point, but I do think it matters. I say that because 
I also need to consider what shed have done if the correct information had been given and 
whether her situation would be different. But I think even if shed been correctly told what 
she could do, it wouldnt have changed anything because shes said she wouldnt have been 
able to clear the arrears in full.
I do agree some compensation is appropriate, as I think Erudio have handled things poorly 
when speaking to her. But I think the impact of the misinformation is limited, because 
regardless of what she was told she wouldnt have been able to apply for the age-related 
cancellation anymore  which would unfortunately still leave her in the very difficult situation 
shes in. So, overall, Im satisfied the £150 award is fair and I understand this amount has 
already been paid to Mrs M.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman