DRN-2543663
The complaint
Mr W complains that 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd (1st Stop) were wrong to write to him when
hed expressed a right to be forgotten. Hes disappointed that 1st Stop have refused his
request to delete his data. Hes upset about the delays he experienced with their response to
a subject access request and also about the information provided to him under that request.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. An extract from that 
decision is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the investigators view that 1st Stop dont need to take any further action I
dont agree with his view on whether this service has jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws
complaint.
Im required to issue a provisional decision if my opinion varies from that of the investigator
even if it only varies on the jurisdictional element of the complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
The investigator was right to explain that this service isnt able to consider every complaint
that comes to us. The rules for what we can and cant consider are laid down by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in their handbook. The relevant section is referred to as
their DISP rules.
There is a specified list of activities listed under rule 2.3.1R that we can look into. The list of
activities includes regulated activities and Mr Ws finance agreement was regulated.
The investigator was right to point out that data processing is not one of the activities listed
under DISP 2.3.1R. But that DISP rule goes on to say that we have jurisdiction over any
ancillary activity, including advice, carried out by a business in connection with a main
activity.
I think its very likely the business would have been handling Mr Ws personal data in
connection to its main activity of dealing with the regulated agreement.
So, I disagree with the investigator and I think we can consider Mr Ws data protection
concerns.
I can see that Mr W has already received a response from the Information Commissioners
Office (ICO). The ICO found that 1st Stop were late responding to Mr Ws subject access
request. I wont reconsider that decision as Im persuaded that its been looked at already,
by them.
The ICO explained in their decision that they could not consider compensation and that
Mr W would need to take that up with us.
Ive therefore thought about the compensation 1st Stop have offered Mr W since they
received the ICOs decision.
1st Stop offered Mr W £50 in respect of their failure to respond to Mr Ws subject access
request in time. They provided a further £25 because they recognised it had taken too long
to consider compensation.
I think that compensation is sufficient. Whilst I understand it would have been distressing to
receive the information late, I dont think theres been any evidence of any financial impact
on Mr W. He was simply kept waiting for the information and 1st Stop have explained they
provided all of the information they held on him and that it was all related to the time the
finance agreement was in place.
So, I dont think 1st Stop need to take any further action.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, whilst I think we have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws
complaint, Im not expecting to uphold it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W didnt have any further information to add and 1st Stop accepted my provisional 
decision.
So, Ive not seen any reason to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman