DRN-4416269
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited cancelled her 
motor insurance policy. She was concerned about the impact the cancellation may have on 
future premiums.
What happened
Mrs M took out a motor policy with AA Underwriting in November 2022. AA Underwriting 
subsequently carried out a validation check, which led it to requesting documentation 
including driving licence information. When it became apparent that Mrs M hadnt disclosed 
an SP30 conviction, her policy was cancelled. AA Underwriting wrote to Mrs M advising her 
of this and informing her that her policy would be cancelled on 7 December 2022. 
Mrs M then called her broker and was advised it was possible to pay an additional premium 
and for the policy not be to cancelled, which she did. But ultimately AA Underwriting 
cancelled her policy. Mrs M only became aware the policy had been cancelled in February 
2023 when she received a letter from the police.
Our investigator didnt conclude that AA Underwriting had done anything wrong in relying on 
the policy term which states that the insurer can cancel the insurer if there are grounds to do 
so, which include failing to provide the correct information.
Mrs M appealed. I issued a provisional decision on 25 September 2023. I explained that I 
would look at any more comments and evidence that I received by 23 October 2023. But 
unless the information changed my mind, my final decision was likely to be along the lines of 
my provisional decision. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im reaching a different conclusion to our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
For clarity I should say Im looking only at the actions of AA Underwriting. AA 
Underwriting is not responsible for the brokers error  that has been the subject of 
another complaint.
AA Underwriting has said that the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representation Act 2012 (CIDRA) doesnt apply here. I dont agree that this is so. 
Although Mrs Ms policy states that the insurer can cancel if there are grounds to do 
so, which include failing to provide the correct information, this in itself doesnt permit 
AA Underwriting to contract out and deprive Mrs M of the protection that CIDRA may 
provide. I say this as it seems to me that such a term, in these circumstances, puts 
Mrs M in a worse position than she would have been in had CIDRA been applied.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a 
qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer 
has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 

Mrs M doesnt dispute that she provided incorrect information. She has explained 
how this came about. She wasnt aware that the conviction stayed on her licence for 
five years. Despite two requests for clarification of the underwriting position nothing 
has been forthcoming from AA Underwriting. As it hasnt shown that without the 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have entered into the contract or would have done so 
but only on different terms, I cant conclude the misrepresentation was qualifying. It 
follows that I dont provisionally find that AA Underwriting was entitled to cancel Mrs 
Ms policy. 
But for completeness I would say that even if AA Underwriting had shown that it 
would have acted differently, for example by taking a higher premium, I find it should 
have offered Mrs M that option before cancelling her policy.
However, the matter has now moved on. Mrs M took an insurance policy elsewhere. 
But because of the cancellation on her record, she had to pay more than she 
otherwise would have. Im minded to conclude that AA Underwriting should refund 
Mrs M the difference between the premium she was paying under the cancelled 
policy and the premium she paid for her new policy. Mrs M will need to provide 
evidence of the premium paid for the new policy.
Additionally, Mrs M would like compensation. She was driving without insurance 
sometimes with a young child and says she could have lost her job. I do understand 
that the situation has been distressing for Mrs W, but I cant ask AA Underwriting to 
pay compensation for what might have happened. Likewise its clear that Mrs Ms 
understanding of cover being in place was not wholly the fault of AA Underwriting, 
but also of the broker. A complaint against the broker has been considered 
separately. But I can see that Mrs M was caused distress which she says impacted 
her mental health. I think compensation is merited and find that £150 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My provisional decision was that I was minded to require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Remove any records of the policy cancellation from internal and external databases
On receipt of evidence from Mrs M as to the premium she paid under the new policy, 
refund Mrs M the difference between the premium she was paying under the 
cancelled policy and the premium she paid for the new policy
Pay Mrs M £150 in compensation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my findings and adopt them here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
Remove any records of the policy cancellation from internal and external databases
On receipt of evidence from Mrs M as to the premium she paid under the new policy, 
refund Mrs M the difference between the premium she was paying under the 
cancelled policy and the premium she paid for the new policy
Pay Mrs M £150 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman