DRN-3998350
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the poor customer service she received from Sesame Limited 
(represented by New Homes Mortgage Services LLP) when she was applying for a 
mortgage to buy a shared ownership property. Miss A also says she was pressurised by 
New Homes to take out insurance.
To settle the complaint Miss A wants New Homes to find out why she was declined and 
compensate her for her financial losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss A wanted to buy a new-build shared ownership property. Through New Homes she 
applied for a mortgage with a lender I will call KR. The mortgage application was approved 
by KR, but before the purchase could proceed, the shared ownership provider, a business Ill 
refer to as H, also needed to give its approval. Unfortunately, H declined the application, on 
the basis of affordability.
Miss A complained, saying that H had given contradictory reasons for declining her 
application. She wanted H and New Homes to compensate her for the fees shed paid for 
solicitors and valuation  about £2,000. Miss A also said that shed felt pressured to take out 
insurance by New Homes.
In its final response letter Sesame, on behalf of New Homes, explained that the actions of H 
were outside of its control. Although New Homes had appealed the decision, H hadnt 
upheld it. Sesame also said that it was appropriate for New Homes to ensure that Miss A 
understood how important it was to have income protection (IP) and critical illness cover 
(CIC) to protect the mortgage. Sesame therefore didnt think New Homes had done anything 
wrong.
Miss A brought her complaint to our service, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. He explained that H was outside our jurisdiction, and noted that the Housing 
Ombudsman had now agreed to look at Miss As complaint about Hs decision to decline her 
application. 
As far as New Homes was concerned, the investigator thought New Homes had done what it 
could in relation to appealing Hs decision to decline the application, but it didnt meet Hs 
criteria. Miss A didnt think New Homes had given her sufficient explanation why the 
application had been declined, but the investigator clarified that the explanation Miss A had 
been given was sufficient. He noted that, although Miss A had been asked to provide 
evidence to support her appeal, she hadnt sent it. As a result, he didnt think there was 
anything further New Homes needed to do in relation to the mortgage application.
However, he thought that, after Miss A had made it clear she didnt want to arrange 
insurance through New Homes, the adviser was insistent she needed it. He thought this was 
inappropriate and asked New Homes to pay compensation of £100.
Sesame, on behalf of New Homes, didnt agree with this, saying that it didnt think its adviser 
had done anything wrong in advising Miss A that she needed IP and CIC.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how disappointing it was for Miss A that her application was declined by H. 
But as the investigator said, H isnt subject to our jurisdiction, and so the decision H made on 
this application, or its reasons for declining it, are not matters Im able to consider. 
Im satisfied that New Homes appealed the decision, which I would have expected it to do. 
Ultimately the decision to decline the application was that of H, and so Im not persuaded 
that New Homes should refund any of Miss As abortive fees in relation to the mortgage 
application.
As far as the IP and CIC are concerned, however, I agree with the investigator that New 
Homes pressurised Miss A into taking out cover that she had made it clear she didnt want.
Ive listened to the call in question, and Miss A (who doesnt come across as someone who 
is financially unsophisticated) made it clear, after the adviser had set out the various types of 
cover, that she would prefer to look into this herself, and that she didnt want to arrange it 
through New Homes. The adviser continued to press her to take out the cover, and Miss A 
said she wasnt interested, but he persisted  and even after Miss A said Im really, really, 
really, REALLY, not bothered about this, can we move on please, we need to move on 
now the adviser was still insistent and pressing her to take out cover. 
Even after the call had moved on and they were discussing contents insurance, the adviser 
brought up the subject of IP and CIC again and eventually persuaded Miss A to take out the 
insurance. I also found that he was somewhat patronising, insisting that he was the expert 
and that Miss A needed to take his advice. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that it wasnt 
appropriate, once Miss A had made it clear she didnt want the cover, for the adviser to 
persist. He should have respected Miss As wishes.
Putting things right
I find New Homes to have been at fault in relation to the sale of the insurance, and I consider 
a payment of £100 to be suitable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Miss A.
My final decision
My decision is that in full and final settlement of this complaint Sesame Limited (represented 
by New Homes Mortgage Services LLP) must pay Miss A £100 compensation. I make no 
other order or award.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman