DRN-4494880
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about the way Lex Autolease Ltd administered a hire agreement 
shed taken out to acquire a car. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties. The events span many 
years. So rather than set out everything again in great detail, Im going to summarise whats 
happened. 
In December 2014 Mrs N entered into a hire agreement with Lex to acquire a car. From what 
I can see, Mrs N was asked to make an initial rental of £1,682.67 followed by monthly rentals 
for 47 months of £560.89. The agreement came with an annual contracted mileage of 
15,000. And the agreement set out that excess miles would be charged at 12.3pence per 
mile (excluding VAT). 
In 2023, after a period extending the hire agreement (at a lower rental), Mrs N said:
She acknowledged there were arrears from 2019. But during Covid-19 she deferred 
some payments and there was a breakdown in communication which contributed to 
arrears growing. When Lex was meant to start taking payments again it didnt. She 
says this went on for around two years. 
When Lex did get in contact it wanted her to clear the arrears. Lex didnt set out what 
was required to be paid correctly. 
There had been a negative impact on her credit file. 
Lex gave Mrs N quotes to buy the car, but they were excessive. And she was 
unhappy with the method used, in particular in relation to excess mileage.
There were times Lex didnt contact Mrs N when promised. 
The situation affected her mental health. 
She offered £200 per month until the complaint was considered but Lex dismissed 
this because it was well under the contractual amount due. She felt threatened and 
agreed to what Lex was asking for which was around £460 per month. 
Lex responded in March 2023 to say, in summary:
There have been arrears on the account since 2019 despite it trying to come to a 
mutual agreement.
There were failings when it tried to put in place a contract amendment for a one-year 
extension when the agreement came to the end of the four-year term, but this was 
put right with a counter credit. It tried to speak to Mrs N several times about the 
outstanding balance. There were arrears regardless of this and the issue was 
rectified.  
The quote it gave Mrs N to purchase the car was calculated correctly. And it was up 
to Mrs N to accept or decline. 
The excess mileage charge was valid as per the terms of the agreement. 
It acknowledged communication was poor during Covid-19 but there were arrears on 
the account prior to this. 
It offered Mrs N £150 compensation. 
Mrs N didnt accept the offer and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. It 
looks like Lex wanted to recover the car, but Mrs N wanted things on hold until our service 
had the chance to consider the complaint. She reiterated what she was unhappy about. And 
in response to Lexs answer on her complaint she said:
She was aware she was in arrears before Covid-19. But Lex didnt restart the direct 
debit or make contact to get things back on track. She says her credit file was made 
worse than it should have been as a result. 
Lex had been asking her to pay the wrong amount and this impacted her credit file. 
The car was wrongly priced by Lex. 
She objected to excess mileage. She was initially told she couldnt buy the car, and 
then Lex changed its mind. She said Lex didnt tell her when the agreement ended. 
The communication had been poor, and the situation had impacted her wellbeing. 
Lex contacted the Financial Ombudsman to say:
It would consider putting the recovery of the car on hold. But the debt was around 
£23,000 (in May 2023) so it wasnt sure if this was the best option for Mrs N. 
The arrears dated back to April 2019. Mrs N had requested a contract extension in 
February 2019 and a quote was sent for a one-year extension at £468.22 per month. 
But it couldnt see this was received back. 
The agreement rolled into an informal extension at £584.27 per month but it agreed 
to raise back credits of £116.05 so that shed only have to pay £468.22 as previously 
agreed. 
It put the account with a special team because Mrs N had experienced financial 
difficulty.
It gave Mrs N breathing space during Covid-19 and it spoke to her afterwards. Lex 
said Mrs N had intended to use proceeds from a house sale to put to the arrears or 
buy the car, but this didnt happen. It gave her a purchase price, but she didnt agree 
to it. 
It upheld her complaint in relation to not implementing the contract extension in 2019 
and delays in communication during Covid-19 and it had paid her £150 for this. 
It tried to engage with Mrs N to set up a payment plan, but shed been reluctant to do 
so until the complaint was considered by the Financial Ombudsman. 
The contract extension should have ended in 2020. It continued to manually agree 
the extension after this time at the rate agreed in 2019. Its likely it would move to 
repossess the car. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. In summary, he said:
It wasnt clear why Lex didnt try to contact Mrs N more frequently about the arrears 
during Covid-19. 
Lex are obligated to record accurate information, including missed payments on 
Mrs Ns credit file. Lex arent solely to blame for Mrs N missing payments. 
As this is a hire agreement, theres no contractual right for Mrs N to buy the car, so 
its up to Lex what it offered as a purchase price. 
The agreement sets out the excess mileage charge. 
Lex has compensated Mrs N £150 for the communication which seemed broadly fair. 
Lexs handling of the contract amendment was broadly fair, based on what hed 
seen. 
Mrs N responded to say she wasnt persuaded Lex had sent all the relevant evidence. Lex 
had been trying to contact her on an incorrect number. It failed to use all methods of 
communication. She said she had over 30 missed payments on her credit file and Lex should have restarted her direct debit in July 2020. She says Lex are totally to blame for the 
impact on her credit file.
Mrs N said the compensation was low and some of the arrears should be written off. She 
agreed she would purchase the car, but the quotes were calculated incorrectly. She said the 
excess mileage charge is excessive. She said she wasnt told the contract had ended. Its 
not fair she has to pay excess mileage if she buys the car. She reiterated Lexs 
communication was poor and that it lost the paperwork for the contract amendment. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mrs N and Lex that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mrs N acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement. Our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
As a starting point, I need to point out that the hire agreement doesnt give Mrs N the option 
to buy the car, unlike with a hire purchase agreement for example. Mrs N is unhappy with 
the price Lex wants her to pay. I appreciate Mrs N is unhappy Lex gave her a purchase price 
and excess mileage to be paid on top of that. But I think the purchase price is based on the 
actual mileage of the car. As of October 2023, that was around 172,000  which is well over 
the contracted mileage, even if calculated pro-rata. If the purchase price Lex gave was 
calculated using the expected value of the car if it had only covered the miles agreed to 
under the hire agreement  it would be higher. I dont think Mrs N is losing out here, or that 
theres some sort of double recovery going on by Lex. 
In any event, as theres no contractual right for Mrs N to buy the car, I dont find I have the 
grounds to say whether or not the offers Lex gave Mrs N were fair or not. Its up to Lex to 
decide what the car should be sold for, and its up to Mrs N to decide whether she wants to 
accept that or not. In the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly direct Lex to sell the car to 
Mrs N for a certain price. But thats not to say the parties cant come to their own agreement 
if they wish.
I also dont find thered be grounds to direct Lex to remove the excess mileage charges if the 
car is returned. These charges were agreed by Mrs N when she took out the agreement. If 
she hands back the car with more miles on it than was originally accounted for, it would be 
worth less. Which is why there is an excess mileage charge.  
Ive next thought about how things should be put right. Theres been a lot happen here and 
so much time has passed that theres no straight-forward way to put everything right for both 
parties. But as I explained above, I need to set out what I think is a fair way to resolve the 
complaint quickly and with minimum formality. 
Its not in dispute Mrs N was behind on her payments prior to Covid-19. And that there are 
now substantial arrears. Its not in dispute Lex didnt handle things well during Covid-19. 
While I can appreciate this was an unprecedented time for firms and that it would have had 
an impact on its operations, I think going two years without speaking to someone whose 
arrears were increasing wasnt reasonable. But at the same time, I take the point that Mrs N 
ought to have known what was owing so if she was unable to speak to Lex about making 
that rental payment, she could have put the money aside. Mrs N says she wants her credit file to be restored to what it was before Covid-19. But by not 
making the rental repayments or having the funds to clear the arrears when she got back in 
touch with Lex, I dont find Id have the grounds to say that the money is not fairly owed, or 
that Lex should amend her credit file to say the payments were up to date for that period. If 
she didnt have the money, this would indicate the missed payments were accurate. If shed 
paid off the arrears when Lex eventually did get in contact with her, Id have recommended 
the missed payments were removed. But this didnt happen. 
Its also not in dispute Mrs N was required to pay £560.89 for the initial four-year rental 
period. And that she agreed to pay £468.22 for a years extension. Lex has said the 
payments could have reverted back to a higher amount after that year. But its agreed to 
accept £468.22 going forwards for the months Mrs N has had use of the car. Ill never know 
what would have happened if the parties had come to another arrangement after the 
extension. Again, I think the communication should have been clearer here. Particularly 
when the extension had ended. But, on balance, I find Lexs offer to accept £468.22 for each 
month Mrs N has had use of the car to be broadly fair. Mrs N has said she wants Lex to 
remove some of the arrears for not re-setting up the direct debit. But I have to bear in mind 
that its fair she pays for her use of the car. Compensation for how things were handled is 
separate, and I will come on to this later. 
Lex has indicated if it recovered the car and Mrs N is unable to pay the arrears it would 
write-of the debt and record a default on her credit file. The arrears are substantial now  
around £24,000. And if Mrs N cant come to an agreement to buy the car outright or repay 
the arrears once its handed back, I can understand why Lex would take the option to default 
Mrs N. But the problem with doing that, from what I can see, is that Mrs N has been in 
arrears for a long time  since 2019. Shes had several missed payments recorded since 
then. Theres a strong argument Lex should have stepped in much sooner and in all 
likelihood taken steps to recover the car if it couldnt come to an agreement with Mrs N. I 
appreciate there was specific guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority about 
repossessing cars during the earlier stages of Covid-19. But by 2021 at the latest, Lex had 
the option to seek to recover the car if Mrs N wasnt able to bring things back on track. This 
might have mitigated the situation. Moreover, as a general guide, defaults may occur when 
customers are three months in arrears and normally by the time they are six months behind. 
So how can things be put right? Its not straight-forward. But Im going to propose some 
options to the parties. Mrs N wants to keep the car but, unless the arrears are cleared, Lex 
wants to recover it. 
Option 1
Lex should let us know in response to this provisional decision the total cost for Mrs N to 
purchase the car if its still willing to do that (if Mrs N can clear that amount straight away). Option 2
Mrs N can decide if she wishes to hand back the car voluntarily. I cant bind her to do that. 
Otherwise, Lex may decide to repossess it, which could lead to further costs for her. Aside 
from any costs of recovery and/or repossession, her liability should be set at the monthly 
payments agreed as Ive set out above (£560.89 for the initial four-year period followed by 
£468.22 for the following months), along with the excess mileage charge (pro-rata) she 
agreed to when signing the agreement. If Mrs N cant come to an agreement with Lex to 
clear the arrears and Lex moves to default the agreement, I think this should be backdated 
to three months after the Covid-19 payment deferral ended. I say this because I think Lex 
should have stepped in sooner. 
Ive thought about whether I should direct Lex to consider letting Mrs N pay off the arrears 
over an extended period. But they are so significant now that I dont think it would be 
practicable or fair on Lex to direct it to enter into another long-term agreement with Mrs N. 
But if it wishes to offer something along those lines, it should let me know in response to this 
provisional decision. No matter what happens as a result of our services involvement, I 
remind Lex of its obligations to treat Mrs N with forbearance and due consideration. 
Ive also thought about the overall way things have been handled. As Ive said above, I think 
the payment for the use of the car is a separate matter to the compensation that Lex should 
pay. Ive found Mrs N is required to pay for her use of the car under the terms set out above. 
But I think Lex ought to have handled things better. Lex offered £150 compensation. Its 
difficult to say what should be done to put things right bearing in mind the arrears are so 
substantial. But looking back, Mrs N was struggling to make payment prior to Covid-19. By 
not bringing the agreement up to date, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Lex to think 
her financial situation didnt improve. If thats true, Im very sorry to hear that. 
Lex should have stepped in sooner, but we cant turn back the clock. It wouldnt be fair to 
Lex to say that Mrs N should have free use of the car for that time. Lex wasnt actively 
chasing Mrs N, and shes been able to use the car, so she wasnt impacted day to day per 
se. But were now in a position where she owes a substantial amount. And that must be very 
worrying for her. 
I dont think £150 goes far enough to reflect the impact the lack of communication has had 
on Mrs N. I take the point that Lex may argue that despite the lack of communication, Mrs N 
ought to have known what she owed, and knew that arrears were increasing. But, as I 
explained above, as the professional firm, I think Lex should have stepped in much sooner. I 
think its inaction has made things significantly worse. Theres no formula I can use to decide 
how to put things right but, in all the circumstances, I think Lex should also compensate 
Mrs N another £1,000. I would normally say this should be paid direct to her. But in the very 
particular circumstances of this complaint, Im minded to say this amount should be put 
towards the arrears, once Mrs N decides what she wants to do. 
Lex responded to say it wouldnt be in a position to allow Mrs N to purchase the car, it would 
prefer her to voluntarily hand it back. It said regarding any default application, this is only 
recorded at the point of defaulting the customer and this would be after the agreement 
ended and through discussions with the customer, or in some cases, where its become 
clear the arrears wont be settled within an allotted time and it moves to write off the debt. It 
said Mrs N would be treated with forbearance and due consideration. Lex also said there was little reference in the decision to the customer benefit due to the 
monthly £116.05 credits continued to raise on the account, which has been done in error. It 
says the arrears are around £4,400 less than they should be. So it doesnt feel balanced that 
Ive recommended another £1,000 is deducted. It thinks the £150 offer is fair given the 
benefit to date. 
Mrs N responded to say all she ever wanted was for things to be sorted out fairly and to 
repay the arrears at comfortable monthly amounts. She said she tried to do that several 
times. Mrs N said at no time did Lex say that the reduced payment for the year extension 
would revert back to the original amount. 
Mrs N said she now wanted to voluntarily hand the car back and repay the arrears at an 
affordable rate. She said her credit rating has been negatively impacted and it will take a 
long time to put right. She said she was unable to secure funding to repay the arrears, and 
that the large monthly repayments are no longer affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. Im very sorry to hear Mrs N has been unwell, 
and I thank her for taking the time to respond. 
Seeing as though both parties have indicated the car should be returned, I no longer need to 
consider or make any directions relating to Mrs N buying the car from Lex. 
I cant bind Mrs N to hand back the car through this decision, but I can make directions to 
cover things in the event she decides to do that. Id normally only be in a position to consider 
how things were handled up until Lex issued its final response letter. But I issued a 
provisional decision so that I could set out what I thought should happen so the parties can 
hopefully draw a line under things. Based on the responses to that decision, I think there are 
three main things I can fairly cover off now Mrs N has agreed to voluntarily hand the car 
back: how much she should pay for her use; what should happen in the event Lex decides to 
default the agreement; and any compensation for the way things were handled. 
Lex has said theres little reference to the discounted rentals Mrs N has received. But I have 
covered that off in my provisional decision. Lex accepted the discounted rate for a years 
extension. I explained Ill never know what wouldve happened if Mrs N tried to come to 
another arrangement after that year. Theres an argument Lex should have terminated 
things at that point (at the latest) due to the growing arrears. But, as I explained, we cant 
turn the clock back. I decided that the lower rate was a fair usage charge from that point. Lex 
seems to have accepted that. Its not given a compelling argument for why the higher rental 
figure is a fairer charge for a car that was older and worth less by that point, so I remain of 
the view that the lower rental charge is a fair amount to apply for the use Mrs N had of the 
car since she extended the agreement. And Im not proposing to use it to offset the 
compensation directions Im going to make. For the avoidance of doubt, Im only making 
directions in relation to Mrs Ns liability for use of the car. Ive also thought about the impact on Mrs Ns credit file. Ive explained why I dont have the 
grounds to direct Lex to remove the missed payments. Things are made more complicated 
because a default hasnt been recorded yet, and I wouldnt like to direct Lex to record a 
default because it may make things worse for Mrs N. Im conscious that Mrs N has said she 
cant clear everything in one go. She wants to enter into an arrangement to pay. I remain of 
the view that, if upon hand back of the car, Lex decides to default Mrs N after speaking to 
her about that arrangement to pay, I think the default should be backdated to three months 
after the Covid-19 deferral period ended. I say this because I think Lex should have stepped 
in around that time given the arrears. And had it done that, this is around the time a default 
ought to have been recorded. So, to some extent, this would have the effect of putting the 
parties broadly in the position they would have been in had things gone as I think they 
should have done. 
Ive finally thought about the compensation I recommended. Ive set out why I dont think the 
reduced payment should be used as compensation. I think the reduced payment seems like 
a fair usage charge that Lex agreed to. I remain of the view that, as the professional firm, 
Lex ought to have stepped in sooner. And had it done so, while it may have been very 
upsetting at the time for Mrs N, things would have crystalised sooner. By letting things drag 
on, Mrs N will now find herself with a significant sum to pay. I think theres a significant 
impact on Mrs N and, on balance, I think the debt should be reduced by £1,000 to recognise 
that things went wrong. I also remain of the view that, in the particular circumstances of 
Mrs Ns case, this amount should be reduced from the amount outstanding because of the 
level of the arrears.
Putting things right
If Mrs N accepts this decision and decides to voluntarily hand back the car, I direct Lex 
Autolease Ltd to:
1. Set Mrs Ns liability for usage at the monthly payments Ive set out above (£560.89 
for the initial four-year period followed by £468.22 for the following months) for the 
time she had possession of the car, along with the excess mileage charge (pro-rata) 
she agreed to when signing the agreement.
2. Reduce the amount outstanding by £1,000.
3. If applicable, backdate any default it decides to record to three months after the 
Covid-19 deferral period ended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lex Autolease Ltd to carry out 
what Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman