DRN-2071247
The complaint
Miss S says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S took out a mortgage in 1984 in one of the banks branches. It seems most likely she 
bought PPI at the same time, although the bank cant find a record of premiums being 
charged for PPI before 1993. The policy gave Miss S protection against accident, sickness 
and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view, Miss S said it seems the total lack of evidence held by 
Santander seems to work strongly in its favour with the banks statements having primacy 
over her recollections. In cases like this where there is limited evidence we weigh up the 
available evidence from both sides, and as some of it is incomplete my decision is based on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the 
evidence we do have and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time. As an 
independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumers or banks - 
theres no benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Miss S provided a number of comments in response to the adjudicators view and I have 
reviewed them all carefully. In keeping with our nature as an informal dispute resolution 
service I will comment here only on those points material to the outcome of her complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. As 
our adjudicator explained, Santander cant provide a policy document from the most likely 
date of the sale, so Ive relied on policy documents it was able to provide from around the 
time Miss Ss cover was most likely sold.
Ive decided not to Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional, it was presented as a pre-determined 
policy. I cant know what was said in the meeting, but Ive considered Miss Ss comments 
carefully. I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
affect what she recalls. Santander no longer has any of her paperwork from the PPI sale, but 
thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. It says Miss S would have 
had to complete a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate if she wanted PPI.
I note the type of policy she had needed the customer to select the cover, excess period and 
benefit level. This suggest to me there would have been discussion during the sale and the 
fact she had choices would have been clear. Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly 
conclude that Santander didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Miss S didnt agree to 
take it out. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Miss S. She says the bank didnt review her 
circumstances. And whilst its possible it didnt adequately do so, I dont find that Miss S lost 
out as a result. I say this as the cover seems to have been suitable for her based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Miss S says she was entitled to 12 months sick pay in 1984. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this for up to 36 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. Miss S 
argues that her work benefits meant she would not use the PPI during her first 12 months of 
any sickness: she would never have claimed whilst also receiving full pay. But whilst that 
may have been her choice, the policy allowed her to claim in addition to receiving her work 
benefits. It also offered her protection for much longer than her work benefits  up to 36 
months. 
The PPI gave Miss S up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would have again paid out in 
addition to a work payment, allowing her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment. This 
would have given her increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Miss S also said 
her parents would have helped too, but thats not a suitable alternative. Its not guaranteed 
and peoples circumstances can change. Miss Ss borrowings were over a long period, 
secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments could have been 
serious for her. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Miss S if she was sick, 
had an accident or lost her job. And as she was paying monthly for the policy, Miss S could 
have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted it.
Its possible Santander didnt give Miss S all the information she needed before deciding to 
buy PPI. I dont know when the bank first made clear the cost or if it pointed out the main 
things the PPI didnt cover. But Miss S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions. Miss S says the additional cost of PPI was not insignificant to her. The 
bank can only confirm the cost of the PPI from 1993, but based on that it seems the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI wouldve changed her mind about buying it.
I know Miss S will be disappointed with my conclusion but, overall, I dont think Miss S has 
lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman