DRN-3553370
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund several transactions she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Miss S noticed a number of transactions had been made from her account that she didnt 
recognise. She contacted HSBC about them and went through a list of the ones she hadnt 
authorised.
HSBC looked into what had happened and concluded that because some of the disputed 
transactions used the genuine card and Personal Identification Number(PIN) issued to Miss 
S, they believed Miss S had authorised them herself.
Miss S told HSBC that shed included some of the transactions in error because she was still 
in shock at seeing these payments on her account. Once Miss S amended the transactions 
she disputed, they only included payments made online or over the phone.  That meant the 
payments hadnt needed the PIN to authorise them.
Miss S complained to HSBC about their investigation and it was once again looked into by 
their complaints team. After a review, they concluded that Miss S had authorised them and 
didnt offer any refund. 
Miss S remained unhappy with how HSBC had handled her complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Miss S explained 
that she hadnt given her card details to anyone else to use and she still had possession of 
it. She thought that a previous use of it may have given someone the opportunity to copy the 
card details, which led to the disputed transactions. Miss S explained that shed received 
fraud messages from HSBC but had ignored them because she thought they were a scam.
HSBC provided audit data about the transactions and records of their investigation of Miss 
Ss complaint. HSBC thought that Miss S version of events had changed since she reported 
it to them. HSBC explained that theyd sent two fraud messages to Miss Ss registered 
phone to advise her of possible suspicious transactions, but they hadnt been replied to.
Once our investigator considered the information, she didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. Miss 
S disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review. Miss S 
commented that shed made a genuine error when she misreported earlier disputed 
transactions and she didnt think that the text messages she received were genuine. Miss S 
thought HSBC were trying to blame her for the transactions and continued to believe that 
online cyber fraud was responsible for acquiring her card details and the pattern of 
transactions was evidence of criminal use of her account.
Miss S wanted to find out more about the location of the transactions, but HSBC were 
unable to provide them due to the type of process they used.
Miss Ss complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Miss S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss S authorised the 
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the card details conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss S, including the use of the three-digit security number (CVV) written on the 
card. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether 
theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss S responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
The transactions Miss S has disputed here are concerned only with transactions made either 
online or over the phone. What that means is that the physical card wasnt required to be 
presented nor the PIN entered in order to authorise the transactions. When Miss S first 
reported the disputed transactions, she included some that used the card and PIN. Miss S 
later said she was still in shock when she reported this by mistake. 
Miss S has explained the personal difficulties she faced around that time and I can see why 
she might have been confused about the disputed transactions she reported. I appreciate 
HSBC thought Miss Ss version of events was inconsistent, but I think the reason for the 
earlier error was a genuine one.
Each of the transactions that Miss S has disputed used the CVV which is only available from 
the physical card itself  its not something recorded elsewhere. Miss S thought an earlier 
use of her card or online cyber fraud were responsible for them. In order to uphold this 
complaint, I would have to be satisfied that there was a likely scenario that can explain how 
all the details necessary to make a disputed transaction including the CVV was acquired by 
someone without Miss Ss authority. 
If the details were acquired through an online breach, its plausible that some details from 
the card could be compromised, including other necessary information such as Miss Ss 
home address usually needed for such transactions. But, in this scenario the CVV from the 
card would be unlikely to be compromised because CVVs arent usually saved on merchant 
sites due to security precautions.
If the card details were acquired through the use of them in a shop, the CVV wouldnt have 
been needed for that transaction, so I cant see how all the details needed to complete an 
online or phone transaction (including Miss Ss address) could have been obtained. If these 
payments had been made without the use of the CVV, I would be inclined to uphold it, but as 
they needed this number which is only available from the physical card and not usually 
visible on merchants websites, I dont think its likely the necessary details could have been 
acquired either of these ways. Also, in either of these scenarios  its speculated an 
unauthorised third party was responsible for the transactions  but in such situations I would 
expect them to utilise the funds available in the account over a much shorter period of time than happened here.
Pattern of transactions
Miss S disagreed with the investigator about the pattern of the transactions. Miss S thought 
they supported her case, whilst the investigator thought they didnt follow typical fraud 
patterns. Decisions arent solely based on patterns, but they can inform the overall picture, 
so I have considered them here. Whats apparent is that whoever was using the card made 
numerous transactions over a period of some weeks, but left funds in the account. Typically, 
thieves will run the card until its stopped, or theyve emptied the account because they dont 
know when the card will be reported stolen. There are also instances where small payments 
are put through to conceal them from the account holder in the hope they dont notice. 
Neither of things happened here, the disputed transactions didnt empty the account nor 
were they so small that they would go unnoticed  especially one payment that was for over 
£500. Id say these transactions were untypical of how fraudulent payments were usually 
made.
Location data
HSBC were asked for location data linked to the disputed transactions. This information is 
gathered when payments are made using a specific type of payment process. None of the 
disputed transactions utilised this system which means theres no location data available to 
review.
Fraud texts 
Miss S also received two fraud texts from HSBC which she didnt respond to. Shes 
explained that she received a lot of spam texts and thought these were related to them. But 
here HSBC noted something potentially unusual they wanted to inform Miss S about and 
sent her a message highlighting two particular transactions. 
Those texts asked Miss S to confirm if she made those transactions. Whilst I can understand 
the receipt of messages can be spam, these were highlighting HSBCs concerns and I would 
have thought that they warranted some further checks from Miss S. At the very least I would 
expect someone to react to them by checking their account. Miss S had used online banking 
earlier that month to check her account and there were other methods (phone/branch visit) 
available to see what was happening. If Miss S had checked her account when the first 
message was sent to her, a number of the other transactions would likely have been 
prevented because HSBCs normal procedure would have been to replace her card.
Overall
So, even if I thought the transactions were the result of a third party using the card without 
permission, Id be unlikely to fully uphold the complaint because Miss S had the opportunity 
to respond to a warning about her account on two different occasions but chose not to. This 
would most probably have prevented some of the losses from the account. But, having 
considered all the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Miss S was responsible for 
authorising these transactions or allowing someone else to use her details and it was 
reasonable for HSBC to hold her liable. Thats because theres no plausible explanation of 
how someone could obtain the CVV from the card. Also, the transactions dont fit the pattern 
of an unauthorised third party using the card to either empty the account or hide the 
payments.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman