DRN-1575283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint for the following reasons.
Mr and Mrs A ticked a box on their mortgage application to say they wanted PPI. The 
application presented a yes and a no box. So, I think Santander made Mr and Mrs A aware 
that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They had limited sick and 
redundancy pay, and the PPI wouldve paid their mortgage for up to 12 months for 
unemployment and 36 months for accident or sickness. 
I think Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs A would still have bought it. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs A dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs As comments, including what theyve said about having 
life and critical illness cover. But these points dont change my conclusion. Those policies 
would only pay out on death or the diagnosis of certain illnesses, which is different to when 
the PPI would pay out. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman