DRN-3244731
The complaint
Miss G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly 
terminated her hire agreement and so she was caused distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Miss G acquired a van under a 48 month hire agreement with VWFS in August 2016. Under 
the agreement, Miss G was required to make 47 rental payments of £279.16, followed by a 
final rental payment of £13,869.24. 
In late April 2020, VWFS sent Miss G a default notice and said Miss G had breached the 
agreement by entering into an administration order. The same day, Miss G applied for a 
payment deferral as her partners income had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In early May 2020, Miss G complained to VWFS as the default notice said the agreement 
would be terminated. However, she said she had entered an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) and her payments to VWFS were unaffected. In light of this, VWFS told 
her that as she had been accepted for a payment deferral, this would cancel the default 
notice. However, following this, VWFS sent Miss G an email telling her she was unsuitable 
for a payment deferral and so the van would need to be returned to it. Three days later, it 
apologised to Miss G and sent her an email explaining the email had been sent in error and 
her payment deferral was still being processed.
Miss G complained to VWFS and said she was provided with conflicting information and she 
was unhappy with the difficulties in trying to reach VWFS. 
VWFS issued its response to Miss Gs complaint in June 2020. It apologised for the delays 
in responding to Miss G and said when she had initially contacted it, it wasnt offering 
payment deferrals. However, it said its new payment deferral option may be suitable and 
asked Miss G to apply for a new payment deferral.
Following this, Miss G applied for a second payment deferral. So VWFS says it sent Miss G 
an email in July 2020, asking her to accept or reject the terms of the payment deferral. It 
says it didnt hear from Miss G, so it didnt apply the payment deferral. 
In November 2020, VWFS sent Miss G an email explaining the arrears under the agreement 
totalled around £16,000. So Miss G contacted it to discuss this. VWFS told Miss G that it had 
sent her terms and conditions associated to the payment deferral, but Miss G had disagreed 
to these and asked it to extend the payment deferral for another three months. However, it 
said this was an automated system and Miss G would need to reapply for a second payment 
deferral through its website. It said it didnt receive any requests from Miss G and so she 
was currently in the secondary hiring period. It told Miss G the van would need to be 
returned in November 2020.
Unhappy with this, Miss G referred her complaint to this service. She said she had requested 
a further three month payment holiday in July 2020 and didnt hear anything further until 
November 2020. She said she was given incorrect information by VWFS and said she relied 
on the van for her sole trader business. She said she wanted VWFS to extend the 
agreement to March 2021.
In March 2021, VWFS reviewed Miss Gs complaint and issued its response. It said it didnt 
receive any acceptance documents from Miss G after it approved her second payment 
deferral request. It said it required signed acceptance before it could implement a new 
payment schedule. It also said Miss Gs agreement ended in September 2020 and the terms 
of the agreement said she needed to sell it to an unconnected third party or she would be 
required to pay the balloon payment and any arrears and then enter into the secondary 
hiring period.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly. He said 
that VWFS sent Miss G an email to explain the new terms that would apply if a payment 
deferral was entered into. But because Miss G didnt respond accepting the terms, VWFS 
couldnt process the payment deferral and so the amounts owed between May and          
July 2020 became repayable.
Miss G disagreed and said that she agreed to a payment deferral with VWFS over the phone 
in April 2020. She said the email VWFS sent her in July 2020 was confusing and it was 
difficult to contact VWFS by phone. She said she told VWFS she needed another payment 
deferral by responding to the email it sent her. 
As Miss G remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G was supplied with a van under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss G has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Miss G missed a payment in January 2020. This remained unpaid until April 2020, when 
Miss G brought the account up to date and a three month payment deferral was agreed. The 
payment deferral covered the payments due under the agreement due between May 2020 
and July 2020. There isnt a dispute about the first payment deferral that was agreed.
So, what I need to decide in this case is whether VWFS told Miss G the second payment 
deferral request was unsuccessful. And whether it told Miss G about her options at the end 
of the agreement. If it didnt, Ill need to think about whats a fair way to put things right.
VWFSs system notes show that it provisionally accepted Miss G for a second payment 
deferral and sent the confirmation documents for Miss G to accept on 4 July 2020. The 
system notes say that Miss G rejected the modified agreement terms. As a result of this, 
VWFS didnt apply the second payment deferral. And Miss Gs payments resumed under the 
agreement. VWFS say as this was an automated system, Miss G would have needed to re-
apply for a further payment deferral via its website. And as it received no further applications, 
it didnt approve a further payment deferral.
VWFS has been unable to supply me with a copy of the correspondence it sent Miss G with 
the modified terms for the payment deferral, as it says this was sent by its automated 
system. However, its accepted by both parties that VWFS asked Miss G to agree to the 
terms of the modified agreement in order to be approved for a second payment deferral. As 
Miss G didnt agree, I think its more likely than not that she would have been reasonably 
aware that the second payment deferral hadnt been successful. 
There also doesnt seem to be a dispute that Miss G wrote back to VWFS and said she 
wanted a further three month payment deferral. However, Miss G was aware the payment 
deferral process was carried out through an automated system. This was explained to her in VWFS final response from June 2020 and so, given she had already applied for the 
payment deferral via the website, and following this she had rejected the terms of the 
payment deferral, I think she would have been reasonably aware she needed to reapply via 
the website. So again I think Miss G was aware the second payment deferral hadnt been 
approved.
Following this, the agreement came to an end in September 2020. Ive considered whether 
VWFS should have done more to make Miss G aware that the agreement had ended.
VWFS says it didnt prompt Miss G that her agreement was coming to an end, as it said it 
received information from the Insolvency Service to say that Miss G was entering into an IVA 
in September 2020. It also received contact from a third party to say Miss Gs IVA had been 
accepted in early November 2020. The same day, it wrote to Miss G to say it had received 
information from her insolvency practitioner and that she needed to maintain the payments 
owed under the agreement or it would issue a default notice. It told Miss G the arrears were 
£15,944.26 under the agreement.
Having considered this, I think it was reasonable for VWFS to hold off on contacting Miss G 
as it had been contacted by her insolvency practitioner. When it was told the IVA had been 
accepted, it contacted Miss G the same day and explained the arrears that were owed. 
Following this, Miss G contacted VWFS and said had received its email and she wanted to 
continue with the secondary hiring period. VWFS sent Miss G an email the same day 
explaining her options. Miss G responded and said she wanted VWFS to confirm the 
payment deferrals were due to come to an end in January 2021 and that she was confused 
about what she had been told. VWFS reiterated there was no payment deferral in place as 
Miss G had rejected the terms, so Miss G asked how much she would need to pay in 
January 2021. Miss G then said she thought she would be able to purchase the van as her 
agreement said she needed to make 47 monthly rentals of £279.16 and a final payment. 
However, the terms of Miss Gs hire agreement say she needs to pay:
47 monthly rentals of £279.16 followed by the final rental £13,869.24 (including VAT) 
payable on the last day of the Primary Hiring Period.
So Miss G needed to pay the 47 monthly repayments and the final rental as per agreement. 
But in doing so, it didnt mean that Miss G would become the owner of the van. The 
agreement didnt allow Miss G to purchase the van at any point. Instead, it said, 
13.1 If the hiring expires or is terminated at, or after, the end of the Primary Hiring Period, 
then you may negotiate the sale of the Vehicle on our behalf in accordance with the following 
conditions 
13.1.1 the purchaser must not be connected to you within the meaning of section 839 of the 
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (or any modification, replacement or reenactment 
of that section)
13.1.2 the sale price must be equal to, or higher than, the open market value of the Vehicle.
Miss G hadnt returned the van by the September 2020. And so, the terms and conditions of 
the agreement say she needed to negotiate the sale of the van. As Miss G agreed to 
continue into the secondary hiring period in November 2020, the following terms applied:
12 Secondary Hiring Period (if applicable)
This term 12 applies only if a Secondary Hiring Period is shown on page 1 to apply. You may 
terminate the hiring by giving us at least one months written notice expiring on or after the 
last day of the Primary Hiring Period shown on page 1. If you do not terminate the hiring at 
the end of the Primary Hiring Period, then the hiring will continue for a Secondary Hiring 
Period from year to year upon these Terms and you must pay us in advance this yearly 
rental shown on page 1. The first yearly rental will be due on the day after the last day of the Primary Hiring Period and subsequent yearly rentals will be due on the same date in each 
following year.
This means that Miss G needed to pay the final rental, the arrears owed under the 
agreement and the advance owed during the secondary hiring period for each year she 
didnt sell the van to an unconnected third party. For clarity, the advance for the secondary 
hiring period was £1,237.54 per year. Having looked at Miss Gs hire agreement, Im 
satisfied the agreement is clear and explains what Miss G was required to do at the end of 
the Primary Hiring Period. 
Miss G has told us that she has now sold the van and Im sorry to hear about the impact this 
has had on Miss G. However, as the terms of the agreement entitled VWFS to charge for the 
secondary hiring period and they outlined what Miss G would need to do at the end of the 
agreement, Im satisfied VWFS has acted in line with its terms and conditions. VWFS has 
said as a gesture of goodwill it has waived the advance for the secondary hiring period. 
I understand that Miss G may have an outstanding amount she owes to VWFS despite 
selling the van. If Miss G is in financial difficulties, Id remind VWFS of its obligations to treat 
her with forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman