DRN-2242228
The complaint
Ms G complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her Legal Expenses Insurance 
(LEI) claim. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Ms G had insurance for certain legal expenses which 
was provided by Aviva.
In August 2018 Ms G bought a second-hand car for £2,600 from a business Ill refer to as 
S. About one month (and 500 miles) later the car broke down. When S didnt resolve the 
matter to her satisfaction  Ms G made a claim to Aviva. She wanted to pursue S for 
damages and compensation.
Aviva appointed one of their panel solicitors M to assess whether the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success (which was a requirement for cover under the policy). M asked Ms G to 
provide further expert reports to assist in this assessment. Ms G says she incurred around 
£700 in costs to obtain these. 
In February 2019 M advised that Ms Gs claim did have the required prospects of success. 
But they valued her claim at around £1,100 (that being the cost to repair her car). As such 
they had concerns about the proportionality of continuing legal action. Ultimately Aviva 
funded the costs of writing a letter of claim to the other side but said it wouldnt be 
proportionate to issue proceedings. Aviva said that if Ms G issued proceedings herself, they 
would fund the court issue fee and the hearing fee. There was also a concern about the 
prospects of making a recovery from S as theyd applied to be struck off the companies 
house register in March 2019.
Ms G was unhappy and complained. She believes the additional reports were unnecessary, 
and that Aviva should pay for them. She also believes that as her case had prospects it 
should have been funded to litigation. She also says that M provided poor service and that 
she could have resolved this herself through the small claims court, which would have 
happened whilst S were still trading. 
Aviva considered the complaint but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. In summary, 
they explained that it was for Ms G to provide the evidence to show her claim met the 
requirements of the policy. Because of this they wouldnt reimburse the costs of the expert 
reports. They highlighted that they checked with M as to why the additional information was 
required and were satisfied with the response they received. They said any concerns about 
M should be addressed to them and that it was reasonable for them to rely on Ms advice. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. As Ms G still disagrees, she has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. 
Ms G has made considerable submission when bringing her complaint. And her strength of 
feeling on the matter is clear  but I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it, its 
just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.  
Aviva are an insurer, not legal experts. So, I think its fair and reasonable that they rely on a 
suitably qualified legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. I think M as legal 
professionals are in a position to know what information is required to assess the prospects 
of a case succeeding or otherwise. I wouldnt expect Aviva to challenge this unless an 
incredibly obvious error had been made. 
Ms Gs policy is clear that she needs to provide information and evidence to show that her 
claim meets the requirements of the policy, particularly with regard to the prospects of 
success. The policy (like nearly all LEI policies) requires that any intended legal action is 
more likely than not to succeed. This isnt unfair or unclear. A privately paying client wouldnt 
generally continue if advised they were unlikely to win, so I dont think an insurer should 
have to either. 
In this case, M wanted further information to assess the prospects of success. I know Ms G 
sees this differently, but until the prospects are confirmed and a claim is accepted  Aviva 
arent liable for these costs. Aviva checked with M why the further report was required. M 
explained that this was because the report Ms G had already provided commented on which 
part had failed but didnt give the reason for that failure. M said this was required to help 
them establish liability. The further report Ms G later provided enabled M to complete their 
prospects assessment. I dont think Aviva are being unreasonable when saying that the 
costs of providing reports to evidence the claim, arent covered by the policy. 
Ive also considered Ms Gs point that any reports she provided at her cost would also later 
be of use in any litigation. I agree its likely that would be the case, but it doesnt mean that I 
think Aviva should meet these costs. At the time the report was obtained, it was to help 
establish prospects. Ms G has pointed out that the policy says the assessment would be 
made on the information submitted. But if M had been able to establish that there were 
positive prospects on the information already submitted, its likely they would have said so. 
And in any case, its reasonable for Aviva to rely on Ms assessment and if Ms G has 
concerns with the assessment, that would be something to take up with M. 
The policy is specific as to what is covered. It says: For the insured events described below, 
which we have agreed to and authorised, we will pay your costs and expenses Further to 
this Costs and Expenses are specifically defined as All legal costs charged by the lawyer 
and authorised by us or that you are ordered to pay by a court / other body. I dont think this 
can be fairly considered to include the costs of reports to evidence Ms G had a valid claim 
under her policy. 
M said that it was only proportionate to write a letter of claim and if Ms G chose to issue 
proceedings to pay the court and hearing fees. They advised it wouldnt be proportionate to 
issue proceedings because they valued Ms Gs claim at around £1,100. Again, I think M are well placed to assess the value of a claim. I appreciate Ms G felt that the value was far 
greater. But I can see that M explained why they didnt agree with how Ms G calculated her 
loss. 
The policy includes a further term which says If in the lawyers opinion your claim has 
reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not be reasonable then 
we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it. If this happens the lawyer will tell 
you what options will be available should you wish to continue. Again, I dont think this is an 
unfair term, its not reasonable to expect an insurer to pay more in legal costs than the 
policyholder stands to gain if successful in their legal action. Its fair for Aviva to rely on Ms 
assessment of both the value of Ms Gs claim and whether or not it would be reasonable to 
continue. 
I understand that part of Ms Gs complaint is that she could have been informed of the 
proportionality sooner, avoiding the need to incur the further expense of additional evidence. 
But this isnt, in the circumstances of this complaint, something that Aviva are responsible 
for. Their role is to pass information to M and to make decisions on the funding and 
acceptance of the claim. If Ms G feels M ought to have made her aware of the risk sooner, 
this is something she should take up with them. 
And although M were a panel solicitor, they will have their own regulator and ombudsman 
service. Aviva arent responsible for the quality of legal advice or the service that M provide. 
Much of Ms Gs dissatisfaction does appear to be with M, but that is something that Im not 
able to comment on. I dont think Aviva themselves provided poor service or were 
responsible for unreasonable delays when dealing with Ms G.
Overall, I dont think Aviva have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly. So, Im not going 
to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman