DRN-1472743
The complaint
Ms R complains that NRAM Limited mis-sold her a paymente protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Ms R was sold PPI alongside a mortgage she took out in 1999. NRAM agreed that the policy 
was mis-sold to her, but didn't offer any redress as she never paid anything for it. Ms R 
accepts this but still feel she should be paid some compensation in view of the distress of 
finding out she'd been mis-sold the policy and the long process of making a complaint. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed, so I've been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've not looked at whether the PPI was mis-sold, because both Ms R and NRAM accept that 
it was. So, the question is simply what if anything more NRAM should do. 
NRAM has explained that the PPI was free for the first six months. Ms R cancelled the 
PPI before the six months was up, and therefore never paid anything for it. I'm satisfied this 
is correct, and it appears that Ms R also accepts this. 
Usually, when PPI has been mis-sold, we tell the business to put the consumer back in the 
financial position they'd have been in if that hadn't happened. This involves a refund of 
premiums plus interest. It is rarely that we tell a business to do more than this - and only in 
exceptional circumstances. 
In this case, I'm not persuaded that Ms R's experience is exceptional or warrants additional 
compensation. I appreciate it was distressing to discover the PPI had been mis-sold to her 
and the complaints process can be long and frustrating. But overall, I see no reason to tell 
NRAM to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman