DRN-4209470
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked their account when they tried to 
make a payment to a friend.
What happened
Mrs and Mr D attempted to transfer £50,000 from their account to a friend. They say the 
money was withheld while Barclays fraud department completed checks on the payment, 
while it established it was genuinely them making the payment. Barclays then gave them the 
go ahead to make the payment but told them to be cautious, so they interpreted this as they 
should double check the money was actually going to their friends account. When they 
transferred the funds, they split up the £50,000, making sure that their friend received it, but 
when they were making the last transfer, Barclays blocked their account. Mrs D contacted 
Barclays but it would not unblock their account as it didnt believe the purpose of the transfer 
was valid. Mrs and Mr D said they were later told Barclays look at each transfer separately 
and this is bank policy. Mrs and Mr D made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays partially upheld Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. It said when investigating payments, its 
fraud prevention system does so individually for each transaction, meaning that even though 
four transactions were for the same purpose, they were investigated separately, which is 
standard bank process in line with its terms and conditions. Barclays said Mrs and Mr D 
were referred to a Barclays branch after the last payment was deferred because there was 
suspicion during the call around identification and verification. Barclays said when a 
customer is referred to a branch it applies a temporary hold on the account until proof of 
identification is shown in branch. It said processes are frozen during this process, so Mrs 
and Mr D being informed that they could normally use their account was an error. It offered 
them £50 compensation for the error. Mrs and Mr D brought their complaint to our service.
Barclays told our investigator that its final response letter contained incorrect information as 
its response said Mrs and Mr D visited a branch and the blocks were removed on 15 
November 2022, but this is incorrect, so they increased their offer of compensation to £200. 
Our investigator said this was fair as this was in recognition of the error Barclays made. But 
he said Mrs D does need to visit a branch with identification to remove the block and as she 
hasnt done this, then he couldnt say that Barclays were acting unfairly by keeping the block 
in place. Mrs and Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said 
Barclays staff should act in tandem with each other but allowing each agent to judge on their 
own is totally unfair and unethical. Mrs D explained that due to her health she is unable to 
visit a Barclays branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mrs and Mr D that it is not within this services remit to tell a business 
how to run their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are 
meeting their regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep its customers accounts safe 
and prevent them being victims of scams. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean it has acted incorrectly. 
I know Mrs and Mr D feel that it is unfair/unethical that one fraud agent allowed the payment 
to go through and the second agent didnt allow the payment to go through. But Im not 
persuaded by this. I say this because while the reason may be the same for both payments, 
the circumstances were not the same despite the time between the payments being 
relatively close to each other.
For the first payment, Mrs and Mr D were trying to transfer a single payment of £50,000. The 
first fraud agent asked questions regarding the payment and deemed it acceptable to 
remove the block. She was clear to Mrs D that she could retry the payment. She didnt tell 
Mrs D to split the payment and make multiple payments and Mrs D didnt suggest she would 
do this. So the fraud agent removed the block on the basis of what Mrs D told her for the 
single payment of £50,000 and told her to retry this payment.
But Mrs D didnt do this. Had she retried the £50,000 payment then it would appear this 
transaction would have completed without a block being placed on the account. But instead, 
when different payments were made and Barclays fraud detection flagged one of these 
payments, then this is why the second fraud agent would need to investigate the flagged 
payment  which wasnt an agreed singular payment of £50,000. So already there would be 
differences between the conversation with the first call handler and the second call handler. 
And when the second call handler asked Mrs D if she had tried to pay this person earlier that 
day, she didnt directly answer this question as she referred to the previous fraud call  but 
this wasnt what she was being asked.
Barclays terms and conditions document on page 33-34 the reasons why it doesnt have to 
carry out an instruction. And I would expect Barclays fraud detection systems to check every 
transaction in order to protect Mrs and Mr Ds account from fraud. It is unfortunate that 
Barclays blocked the account in order to protect Mrs and Mr Ds account  but I cant say its 
done anything wrong in doing this. It is up to Barclays how it tries to safeguard its customers 
funds to ensure that its customers are not victims of any fraud or scams. Here it acted in line 
with its terms and conditions and refused the transaction as it had concerns about the 
payment. I would expect it to take actions like blocking an account in this instance, to ensure 
that funds cant leave the account until they can verify the customer in branch  which is 
their process here.
Ive considered what Mrs D has said about her not being able to visit a branch. I asked 
Barclays what could be done about this. It confirmed that while it would require each 
individual to visit the branch with two forms of identification as requested by the fraud team, 
it is not aware of any vulnerabilities regarding Mrs D. But it has said that a home visit could 
be arranged for Mrs D by contacting her local Barclayss branch. 
So Im satisfied this would be a reasonable adjustment that Barclays could make here if Mrs 
D were to contact the branch to make the home visit (or Mr D could find out how she could 
do this if he goes into the branch with his two forms of identification as both individuals need 
to provide the required identification). Im not persuaded a Power of Attorney (POA) would 
be required here as Barclays have said if a POA went into the branch, the branch would 
need to use discretion as it wouldnt be aware if Mrs D was being coerced. As part of my investigations into this complaint. Barclays have disclosed information which 
its allowed me to share with Mrs and Mr D. Barclays have said it has detected the use of a 
third party remote access tool within the device logged into online banking, and as a result of 
this, it would recommend removing this tool and completing a thorough virus and malware 
scan before accessing its online banking platform in the future. 
Although Im satisfied Barclays were within its rights to take the action it did to protect the 
account, Im persuaded that they have let Mrs and Mr D down by giving them incorrect 
information in its final response letter. I say this because they didnt visit a branch and the 
blocks werent removed by them visiting a branch. And they were informed that they could 
use their account normally which was an error. So this will have been distressing to Mrs and 
Mr D that Barclays had given them incorrect information about the block being removed 
when it hadnt been, and they were aware they hadnt visited the branch.
Barclays increased their offer of compensation to £200 due to the correct information. And 
Im satisfied this is fair as Im persuaded it recognises the impact this incorrect information 
would have had on Mrs and Mr D. So it follows Ill be asking Barclays to put things right for 
Mrs and Mr D.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Barclays pay Mrs and Mr D £200 compensation, which I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs and Mr D £200 for 
distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman