DRN-3593210
The complaint
Mrs B complained that UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs B was given a loan by UK Credit as follows:
Date taken Loan amount Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsMonthly 
repayment*Total payable
May 2018 £3,000 36 £134.10 £4827.60
Mrs B told UK Credit the loan was mainly for debt consolidation  in other words, she would 
use part of the loan to repay other debt - and she would put £1,000 or so towards wedding 
costs. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Bs complaint. 
In summary, he felt that UK Credit couldnt be fully certain this loan was affordable because 
it had relied on automated checks and a pounds and pence affordability calculation without 
manual evidence. So he didnt think that UK Credit shouldve provided the loan and 
recommended upholding the complaint.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, it said that in the absence of 
bank statements, there was nothing to suggest that UK Credit was wrong in lending to Mrs B 
and no evidence that Mrs B suffered any financial harm because of the loan. It felt that the 
loan was affordable and sustainable and that this was borne out by her payment history with 
UK Credit.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also find 
out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, UK Credit asked Mrs B about her income and did an electronic check to verify 
her pay. It also carried out its own credit checks. And, during a phone call with Mrs B (which 
I've listened to) UK Credit asked about her expenses and questioned her about the results of 
its credit checks to understand her existing credit commitments and her credit history.
UK Credit recorded a figure of £1,550 net salary per month. After doing its own background 
checks and carrying out its affordability assessment, UK Credit worked out that after using 
the loan to consolidate some of her debt, Mrs B should still have been left with around £553 
spare cash. So this led UK Credit to conclude that the loan monthly repayments should be 
affordable for Mrs B  as long as she consolidated her debt. It warned her that she might not 
find the loan affordable otherwise.
Ive taken carefully into account everything UK Credit has said in response to our 
investigators view about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about 
what I think a responsible lender should have made of all the information it had gathered and 
in particular whether it was enough for UK Credit to make a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator thought UK Credit needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan 
and I agree. I say this because it was aware that Mrs B had a history of reliance on expensive high cost 
credit and there were signs that she was over-stretched financially. She had used all her 
available credit on a credit card (she was £20 over the card limit at the time) and she had 
fallen behind with her contractual payments owing on a payday loan around 4 months earlier 
and not been able to make this up. When she applied for this loan, it looked like she was 
three payments in arrears. The monthly repayments were just £140 which means they ought 
to have been manageable for Mrs B according to UK Credits affordability assessment. 
Mrs B wasnt able to give any meaningful explanation when asked about this. So I think this 
issue seemed to be at odds with the information UK Credit was relying on to establish 
affordability. As well as this, UK Credit knew from its discussion with Mrs B that she had 
other outstanding credit not shown in the credit report it had obtained, so it had good reason 
to think the information it had gathered was incomplete.  
I think UK Credit needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper understanding 
of Mrs Bs financial situation  especially as it knew that its lending margins were tight and 
the loan would only be affordable for Mrs B if it had correctly understood the impact of her 
debt consolidation plans.
UK Credit hasnt shown me that it carried out what I consider wouldve been proportionate 
checks in these circumstances. This means I need to consider what its likely a proportionate 
check wouldve shown had this been done.
UK Credit has referred to the fact that Mrs B hasnt provided bank statements and suggested 
that this means there isnt anything to show that UK Credit was wrong to lend this loan. But 
I take a different view. 
I've looked at a credit report provided by Mrs B which I think gives a useful guide to 
understanding her overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if UK Credit had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely realised that all the indications were 
that Mrs B couldnt afford this loan.
I say this because better checks are likely to have shown that, in reality, Mrs B was paying 
monthly repayments to creditors totalling at least £1,100. 
So, broadly speaking, the amount she would need to spend servicing her existing credit 
commitments would likely exceed two thirds of her take home pay. Experience tells us that 
this is generally an unsustainable position for a borrower. And, in Mrs Bs case, thats borne 
out by the fact that UK Credit established that her living costs and other normal expenditure 
amounted to £557  meaning her total outgoings were more than her take home pay each 
month. 
Even allowing for some variation in these figures, I think UK Credit should have realised, had 
it done a proportionate check, that Mrs B didnt have the surplus cash she needed to be able 
to pay the monthly repayments for this loan.I've taken into account that UK Credit believed that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. I think its fair to say that, as a responsible lender, UK Credit did tell Mrs B she 
would need to pay off other debt in order to afford its loan. 
But UK Credits checks dont appear to show that Mrs B had already taken out another 
£3,000 loan with a different provider of high cost credit just a couple of months earlier and 
the bulk of that loan was currently outstanding. So, regardless of which debt she may have 
chosen to consolidate, in reality I dont think UK Credit had sufficient reason to think this 
wouldve improved her overall position enough to achieve a significant and sustainable 
improvement in Mrs Bs financial situation  given her outstanding indebtedness overall.   
And its hard to understand how, even with debt consolidation, this loan was going to 
improve Mrs Bs day to day financial situation so that her lending would become sustainable 
for her.
All the indications were that she would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. And I believe that if UK Credit had done a proportionate check it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mrs B and 
recognised that it shouldnt have provided it. So, UK Credit needs to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything UK Credit has said, 
including its detailed responses to our investigators view. UK Credit has helpfully set out its 
position in some detail and I acknowledge that it has taken a different view to me. I have 
concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached 
my conclusions. I invite UK Credit to reconsider its position. 
The fact that Mrs B made the loan repayments without any evident difficulty doesnt mean 
that she was able to do so sustainably. She continued to take out expensive credit  
effectively borrowing from one lender to pay others  which I think wouldve been a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of this lending had UK Credit carried out proportionate 
checks before agreeing to provide this loan.
And whilst I think its fair to say that UK Credit was entitled to take account of what Mrs B 
said in support of her application, it also had a responsibility to carry out sufficient checks to 
be able to satisfy itself that it was fair to lend and that the loan would be sustainably 
affordable for her.
I dont agree that there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly say that this loan was 
detrimental to Mrs B. As Mrs B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and 
charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost 
out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. And the credit report she has sent me shows 
that Mrs B continued to be over-reliant on credit and her financial situation deteriorated 
further after taking out this loan. So what UK Credit has said isnt enough to make me think it 
would be fairer not to uphold this complaint.  Finally, I havent overlooked the fact that Mrs B mentioned the possibility of an income from 
a second job. There wasnt a lot of information about this  UK Credit thought her main 
income might be boosted by up to £100 or so more per month. But this wouldnt have been 
enough to change the outcome of the complaint so I dont think I need to say more about 
this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mrs B 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit 
acted unfairly towards Mrs B in any other way. So Im not planning on awarding any 
additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs B to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Mrs B shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. So I've set out below the steps UK Credit 
needs to take to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs Bs representative has told us that Mrs B is happy with what I've said in my provisional 
decision.
UK Credit has confirmed that, after reviewing my provisional decision, it has nothing further 
to add and will await my final decision. 
As I have now heard from both parties I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and UK Credit in particular for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. Given 
that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this 
complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
UK Credit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs B received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mrs B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs B.
Whilst its fair that Mrs Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman