DRN-4174102
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank wont allow him to 
appeal a declined credit card application via email.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for a Tesco credit card online and he was requested to send them 
further information relating to his income, so he did this, but he received an email from them 
rejecting his application. He said the email gave him the right to send them a written appeal, 
but as he was based overseas and due to his health, it was easier for him to send them an 
email instead, but Tesco rejected this, which Mr M felt was unfair. Mr M made a complaint to 
Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said they can confirm that they required 
evidence by post as this is in accordance with their policies and procedures. They said 
although this may be of inconvenience to Mr M, they require evidence by post for auditing 
purposes. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she appreciated the 
inconvenience that might have been caused to Mr M as he was abroad at the time of 
wanting to appeal the lending decision and the difficulties he might have faced by doing this 
via post. But Tescos provided evidence that confirms their process for customers appealing 
any lending decision is for this to be completed via post. She said Tesco have confirmed 
they dont currently have a facility where customers can email such information. Our 
investigator said Tesco hadnt acted unreasonably or given Mr M incorrect information about 
how he could appeal their decision. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said in today's digital age, it is highly unusual for a major financial institution 
not to have a facility for customers to email such (credit card appeal) information to them as 
this outdated approach creates unnecessary delays, inconveniences, and potential security 
risks for customers like himself. He believes Tesco should be obliged to offer alternative 
options to make an appeal to them. Mr M said it is crucial to highlight that their failure to offer 
alternative methods of communication and their refusal to adapt to contemporary practices 
are, in fact, significant errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as what format they allow credit card appeals to be 
made, or to make them offer alternative ways to appeal. It would be the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr M acknowledges that the email he received did state that the appeal needed to be sent 
via post. And while I can sympathise with the reasons Mr M finds this inconvenient, I cant 
say that Tesco are doing anything wrong with this requirement, even if Mr M feels there are 
more modern and better/quicker ways to appeal their decision. Although Mr M has 
mentioned this process is unusual for a major financial institution, I can only focus on the 
actions of Tesco as that is who his complaint is about. Tesco are able to make a commercial 
decision with how they allow potential customers to appeal, and it was confirmed to him on a 
phone call he had with Tesco on 22 March 2023 which Ive listened to where the call handler 
confirmed the appeal would need to be sent by post. So Im satisfied that they followed their 
process here. So it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman