DRN-3421874
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Citibank UK Limited wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs Ks husband was looking for alternative investments and came across an investment 
company while searching online. After speaking to the investment company over the phone, 
he suggested Mrs K invest with them. So Mrs K sent a payment of €12,500 from her account 
with Citi to the account details the investment company gave her. Unfortunately, we now 
know the investment company was a scam.
Mrs K was given access to an online trading platform to monitor her investment but became 
concerned when, a few months later, the balance of her investment suddenly decreased. 
The investment company sent her a number of emails explaining they were having technical 
issues with the platform. But Mrs K was still concerned so contacted Citi and the scam was 
uncovered.
Citi investigated but said it was satisfied Mrs K had authorised the payment. It also didnt 
think the payment was out of character or unusual for Mrs K, so didnt think it should have 
asked any further questions before allowing it to go through. And so it didnt agree to refund 
the money shed lost. Mrs K wasnt satisfied with Citis response, so referred her complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said Mrs K hadnt used her account 
very much and this payment was for a significant amount. So they felt Citi should have 
asked further questions about the payment before allowing it to go through. And that, if it 
had, the scam would have been uncovered and Mrs K wouldnt have lost her money. So our 
investigator said Citi should refund the money Mrs K lost. Citi didnt agree with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Citi should refund the money Mrs K lost as a result of this scam. Ill 
explain why below.
Mrs K accepts she made the payment herself. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, she did authorise the payment. And so, under the Payment 
Service Regulations, the starting position is that she is liable for the payment and Citi doesnt 
have to refund it.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Citi 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Citi should have identified that Mrs K was potentially at risk 
of fraud as a result of the payment.
Having looked at the statements for Mrs Ks account, I think this payment was unusual and 
out of her character for her. The account was not used frequently, with no other outgoing 
payments in the previous six months. The funds for this payment had only been transferred 
into the account around a week earlier and the payment used up almost the entire balance 
of the account. And the payment was for a large amount and was being made to an 
international account. So I think Citi should have identified that Mrs K was potentially at risk 
of fraud as a result of this payment and carried out additional checks before allowing it to go 
through.
I accept its not for this service to dictate the checks Citi should do or the questions it should 
ask. But, particularly given the size of this payment and that it was being sent internationally, 
I think in these circumstances it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include 
questions about who the payment was going to and the purpose of it.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs K had been told to lie about the purpose of the 
payment so, if asked, I think she would have told Citi the payment was for an investment. On 
being told this I think Citi should then have warned Mrs K about the possibility of investment 
scams and suggested she make sure shes happy the investment company is genuine, 
including checking whether they are authorised by the FCA.
As Citi is in a position of knowledge and authority in financial matters, I think its warning and 
suggestion would have carried considerable weight with Mrs K. So I think she would then 
have checked whether the investment company was authorised by the FCA. And as the FCA 
had issued a warning about the investment company two months before, saying it was 
unauthorised and customers should be wary, I think Mrs K would have seen this warning 
and the scam would have been uncovered.
So if Citi had taken further steps to check whether Mrs K was potentially at risk of fraud, as I 
think it should have done, I think the scam would have been uncovered and Mrs K wouldnt 
have made the payment of €12,500. And so I think Citi should refund the €12,500 Mrs K lost.
Ive also considered whether Mrs K should bear some responsibility for the loss she 
suffered, but I dont think it would be fair for her to do so. This was a sophisticated scam and 
her husband had spoken to the investment company over the phone, which would have 
made them seem legitimate. The online reviews of the company were mostly positive at the 
time. And while Mrs K could have done further checks into the company before Citis involvement, she wasnt an experienced investor and so I dont think it would be fair to say 
she acted unreasonably in not doing so.
So I think Citi should refund the full amount of the €12,500 payment. And as Mrs K has now 
been without that money for a period of time, I think Citi should also pay her compensatory 
interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of the payment until the date it is 
refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and require Citibank UK Limited 
to:
Refund Mrs K the payment of €12,500
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payment until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman