DRN-2104423
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has not calculated the early settlement amount on 
his loan correctly.
What happened
Mr M says he asked Sainsburys for the early settlement amount on his loan but says the 
amount was about £1,000 more than his own calculations. He says he is a financial 
professional and has provided a spreadsheet with his own calculations and would like 
Sainsburys to provide him with a copy of its calculations. Mr M says he would like 
compensation for the overpayment, as he has now repaid the loan, and for the emotional 
stress he has been caused. He says he also makes his complaint on behalf of other 
Sainsburys customers affected by this issue.
Sainsburys says it has calculated the early repayment amount and hasnt made a mistake. It 
says it uses an automated programme to calculate the amount, but that information is 
commercially sensitive.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it reasonable of Sainsburys to decide it would not share the calculations and that, as 
we were not its regulator, it is not our role to order it do so.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and questions why we cant comment on the calculations or 
check the accuracy of them. He says Sainsburys may have committed fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
We are not auditors and its not our role to check the calculations of loan agreements or 
check if an early repayment amount is accurate. I can see that Mr M says the calculation is 
incorrect and Sainsburys has told us its correct. In those circumstances I find it is 
impossible to fairly conclude Sainsburys has made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also make 
clear to Mr M that its not our role to refer the calculation to a specialist Actuary or Auditor but 
of course it is open to him to instruct such an independent expert and share any results with 
Sainsburys if he wishes.
I appreciate Mr M says Sainsburys may have committed fraud, but it would be for a court to 
decide such matters and not us. I also appreciate Mr M says he brings this complaint on 
behalf of others that may be affected by this issue. But we can only look at Mr Ms complaint 
and not at any wider issues that he complains about. The investigator has explained that we 
are not Sainsburys regulator and so its not our role to tell it what information it ought to 
share with its customers. I also think such information is likely to be commercially sensitive in 
any event.
Overall, I appreciate that its likely Mr M will still have unanswered questions, but I hope he 
appreciates what our role is here and how we approach such issues and problems.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman