DRN-2079745
The complaint
Ms N says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I sent Ms N and Morses Club my provisional findings on this complaint on 7 August 2020. In 
it I set out what I thought Morses Club should do to put things right for Ms N. I asked Ms N 
and Morses Club to let me know if they had any further points they wanted me to consider. 
Both parties have now accepted my provisional decision, the key parts of which Ive set out 
below.
We know that Ms N had nine loans with Morses Club. Information about some of these loans is 
limited. Ive set out a summary of the key the information I do have, provided by both Ms N and 
Morses Club, in the table below.
Loan no. Amount (£) Start date End date
1 500 unknown unknown
2 350 unknown unknown
3 450 15/06/2013 16/05/2014
4 500 11/10/2013 23/10/2015
5 400 29/11/2013 16/06/2016
6 600 17/05/2014 01/12/2017
7 170 01/12/2017 16/03/2018
8 370 16/03/2018 with a third party
9 500 04/05/2018 with a third party
An adjudicator considered Ms Ns complaint (she did so before some of the above information was 
available) and thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loan 6  and she endorsed 
Morses existing offer to settle the complaint in respect of loans 7 to 9.
Ms N asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman and so it was passed to me. Loans 
1 to 5 are the only loans which are still really in dispute but Ive set out a different approach to 
redress for loans 8 and 9 and invite comments from both parties on this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
There is, as Ive said above, little information available in respect of loans 1 to 5. Morses Club has 
been able to confirm the amounts lent for loans 1 and 2 and additionally the start and end dates for 
loans 3 to 5 but does not have any loans agreements or application paperwork. This means Im 
unable to say what sort of information Morses Club checked before giving these loans to Ms N and 
whether those checks were proportionate.
Ms N has been able to provide some additional information, including a photograph of one of the 
loan books, but Im afraid this doesnt assist greatly with deciding whether the loans were lent 
responsibly. It is only really evidence that the loan existed and that isnt in dispute.
With so little information, I cannot fairly say if loans 1 to 5 were individually affordable or not. I can 
see that loans 3 to 5 were all approved in fairly quick succession and by loan 5 they ran 
simultaneously but I dont think that is enough on its own to suggest they were likely to be 
unaffordable or to demonstrate a harmful pattern of lending. I dont therefore intend to uphold the 
complaint about loans 1 to 5.
This leaves loans 6 to 9  and Morses Club has agreed to uphold the complaint about these loans. 
It has said it will remove the interest from outstanding loans, leaving only the principal to pay. 
Ordinarily, Id agree that was fair  but theres more to consider in Ms Ns case.
It appears loans 8 and 9 were sold to a third party (L). Ms N has provided letters from L which 
state it does not intend to pursue her for these debts and had closed its files. L must have had a 
reason to decide not to pursue those debts and Ms N has said this is simply because she cant 
afford to repay them. I see no reason not to accept that explanation  the letters from L tend to 
support this explanation.
Given the above, I dont think it would be right for Morses to take back these debts and pursue 
Ms N for the balance as part of the redress. I therefore propose to ask Morses to do nothing in 
respect of loans 8 and 9. This will not leave Ms N worse off as she has not repaid more than she 
borrowed in respect of these loans, so she wouldnt be due a refund in any event.
I therefore only intend to ask Morses to take action in respect of loans 6 and 7, which I understand 
it still owns. For these loans, I plan to ask Morses to calculate redress in the usual way  but I think 
it would be fair and reasonable in this case for Morses to take into account that Ms N had the 
benefit of principal she didnt repay for loans 8 and 9  and deduct this from the redress for loans 6 
and 7.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Ms N and Morses Club accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
Putting things right
Morses should not take loans 8 and 9 back from L as L has already decided Ms N cannot
afford to repay them and has closed the accounts.
Morses should refund the interest and charges Ms N paid towards loans 6 and 7 and add
8% simple interest to the refund, from the dates Ms N paid the interest and charges, until the
date of settlement*. 
Morses may deduct the unpaid principal written off by L from loans 8 and 9 from the refund 
(after tax). The balance of the redress should then be paid to Ms N.
Morses should remove any adverse information it has reported about loans 6 and 7 from
Ms Ns credit file. It should ask L to do the same for loans 8 and 9. The exception to this is if
L has obtained a county court judgement in respect of any unpaid principal.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses Club mustgive Ms N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ns complaint in part. Morses Club PLC must put 
things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman