DRN-3018729
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down its commercial property insurance 
claim, after a fire. 
Mr G, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to NFU includes their agents.
What happened
M held a commercial insurance policy with NFU. It contacted NFU to claim on its policy after 
discovering a fire at its premises on 31 March 2019. 
M said its staff had been at the premises on 29 March 2019 and had used a griddle in the 
morning. It said the griddle was turned off and cleaned after being used in the morning and 
the plastic bin next to the griddle was always emptied by the end of the day. 
Mr G said he had visited Ms premises while it was closed on 29 March and 30 March to 
transfer stock to another premises, due to electrical work being carried out in the area on   
31 March. Mr G said that when he visited the premises in the evening of 31 March, he 
discovered there had been a fire which had by then, burnt itself out. The fire brigade 
attended and suggested the cause of the fire could have been an electrical fault. 
NFU appointed a forensic investigator to visit Ms premises to look into the claim. The 
forensic investigator concluded that the cause of the fire was most likely the combustion of a 
discarded greasy tissue paper which had been used for cleaning. NFU said that there was a 
warranty in Ms policy that specified that oily and greasy waste should be stored in a metal 
container and removed from the building at the end of each day. NFU thought that M hadnt 
complied with the warranty and that had led to the fire. As a result of this, NFU turned down 
Ms claim.
M complained to NFU about both the declining of the claim and the way NFU had handled it. 
M thought the most likely cause of the fire was an electrical fault. In their final response 
letter, dated August 2019, NFU said that while the fire brigade had indicated the possible 
cause was electrical, the fire brigade hadnt investigated the cause of the fire. NFU also 
noted that M had obtained its own expert report but hadnt given NFU a copy. NFU said they 
would review the claim if M provided a copy of its fire investigators report. 
M was unhappy with NFUs response and brought its complaint to our service. As well as 
being unhappy that NFU had turned down the claim, M also said it had been told the claim 
would be covered, only for NFU to later say it wasnt. 
In September 2019, M provided our service with the summary of a report produced by a fire 
investigator it had appointed in June 2019. That report said that the burn pattern on the wall 
showed that the fire couldnt have originated on the shelf where NFUs forensic investigator 
said it did. Ms fire investigator said it hadnt been possible to eliminate that the fire had 
started in the extraction hood and spread. The summary said further investigation of the 
components would be needed.
NFU asked their forensic investigator to comment on Ms fire investigators summary. NFUs 
forensic investigator said after reviewing the summary and briefly speaking with the fire 
investigator on the telephone, they still thought the fire had been started by the greasy 
tissue. So NFU refused to change their decision not to pay the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought NFU had shown it was most likely that the fire had been started by the greasy tissue 
and therefore it was fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on Ms breach of a warranty to turn 
down the claim. 
M asked its fire investigator to look into things further. The fire investigator removed the 
cooker hood and took it to a laboratory. M provided a summary of the fire investigators 
findings to both our service and NFU. NFU said they were unable to change their decision 
on Ms claim if M wouldnt provide a full copy of its fire investigators report. NFU issued a 
new final response letter in November 2020. 
After M provided the second summary from its fire investigator, our investigator initially told 
M that she would be upholding its complaint. However, as this investigator was unable to 
continue looking into Ms complaint, it was passed to another one of our investigators who 
looked into NFUs further decision to refuse to pay Ms claim as second complaint. 
M asked for a copy of NFUs forensic investigators reports. NFU agreed to a report being 
provided and M asked its fire investigator to comment on it. Ms fire investigator provided 
reasons for why they didnt think the conclusions of NFUs forensic investigator were correct. 
They didnt think the forensic investigator had explained how a fire caused by tissue 
combusting could have caused flames high enough to pass by the upper shelf but not 
damaged other things around it. They also thought the burn pattern indicated that it was a 
roll of paper than had burnt and not crumpled tissue paper.
Our investigator didnt recommend Ms complaint be upheld. He thought it was fair and 
reasonable for NFU to rely on their forensic investigators report to turn down the claim as he 
thought they had done enough to show there was a breach of the warranty.  
M disagreed as it didnt think it was likely that the fire had been caused by a greasy tissue 
given that it was in an air conditioned building with no light. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision as it thought the fire was more likely due to an electrical fault and therefore the 
claim should be paid. 
Before reaching a decision, I contacted M through our investigator to let it know I would be 
looking at the complaint as a whole and to ask for a full copy of its fire investigators report. 
M declined to provide a copy and indicated that I should reach a decision without it. M 
reiterated that it didnt think the fire could have been caused by discarded tissue and also 
provided a letter from the fire brigade. 
I also let M know that I had considered its complaint that it had been incorrectly told by NFU 
that its claim was covered. I said that I didnt intend to make any award for this, as to do so, I 
would need to be persuaded that M had incurred a financial loss it wouldnt have otherwise 
had, due to being given incorrect information. M didnt provide any further comments in 
relation to this. 
Our investigator also let NFU know that I would be considering Ms complaint points under 
one complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although two of our investigators have looked into different parts of this complaint, Im going 
to review the complaint as a whole and reach a decision on what I consider to be the central 
issues of it. 
The terms and conditions of Ms policy include a warranty that says:
for trade waste and other waste materials:
a) all oily or greasy waste and used cleaning cloths will be stored in closed metal 
receptacles which will be:
i. stored in an area specifically designed for this purpose; and
ii. removed outside the buildings and all communicating buildings at the end of 
each working day; and
iii. removed from the PREMISES at least once every week;
b) all other combustible waste will be swept up each day and deposited in bags 
or bins which will be:
i. stored in an area specifically designed for this purpose; and
ii. removed from the PREMISES at least once every week.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered the evidence Ive been provided with to decide 
whether its fair and reasonable for NFU to have turned down Ms claim each time on the 
basis that M breached this warranty. Having done so, Im satisfied NFU have acted fairly, 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
NFUs original decision to turn down Ms claim
The forensic investigator NFU appointed provided a detailed report which concluded that the 
most likely cause of the fire was balled up greasy tissue paper. The forensic investigator 
gave a detailed explanation of why they had reached this conclusion and said that a lack of 
damage to wiring and other components ruled out an electrical fault. The forensic 
investigator also took statements from the fire brigade who attended the fire who said that 
while theyd thought the fire was caused by an electrical fault, they hadnt investigated the 
cause. 
I appreciate M disagreed with the conclusion reached by NFUs forensic investigator 
however, I think it was fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on their detailed report to 
conclude that the fire had been caused by the greasy tissue paper. As the report indicated 
that it was more likely than not that the waste cleaning material had been left out and that 
most likely caused the fire, it was therefore reasonable for NFU to say M had breached the 
warranty in the policy and that breach had led to the fire. 
When M complained about NFUs decision, NFU said it would review the claim if M provided 
a copy of the expert report it had obtained. I think this is fair and reasonable, as its what Id 
expect NFU to do in light of new information. 
NFUs refusal to change their decision due to the first summary report M providedM provided a summary report, dated June 2019, from the fire investigator it appointed. In 
that summary, Ms fire investigator said the fire didnt originate from the place NFUs forensic 
investigator thought most likely. They said a fire starting in the extraction hood couldnt be 
ruled out and further inspection of it would be required. 
Ive seen a copy of NFUs forensic investigators response to Ms experts report. It includes 
a detailed explanation of why the investigator still thought the most likely cause of the fire 
was the discarded cleaning materials, as well as why they didnt agree with Ms fire 
investigator.   
I find NFUs forensic investigators report more persuasive than the first summary report from 
Ms fire investigator, because its more detailed and provides an explanation of the likely 
cause of the fire. Ms fire investigators first summary doesnt provide an explanation of what 
most likely caused the fire, only that an electrical fault couldnt be ruled out. I appreciate M 
thought this summary proved that NFUs forensic investigator was wrong. However, I think 
the report showed a difference in experts opinions, rather than proof one was incorrect. I 
also dont think Ms fire investigators first summary went far enough to demonstrate that the 
fire was most likely caused by an electrical fault. So I think it remained fair and reasonable 
for NFU to continue to decline Ms claim based on the information they had available. 
NFUs further refusal to change their decision after M provided a synopsis of a second report
M provided a synopsis of a further report carried out by its fire investigator (which was 
completed in February 2020) as well photos taken by the fire investigator. This synopsis 
concluded that the fire originated from within the extraction hood, shown by the damage to 
wiring and components within the hood.
NFU considered this but said it would require a copy of the complete report in order to 
consider changing their decision. I think its reasonable for NFU to have asked for a copy of 
the full report as without the full report theyre unable to consider the complete explanation 
provided by Ms investigator. 
M would like me to consider how the fire most likely started and whether its likely that the 
fire started from discarded cleaning materials. However, its not for me to decide how the fire 
most likely started. Instead, I need to decide if NFU made a fair and reasonable decision to 
turn down the claim. And to reach a decision, I need to consider the information I have 
available. 
I understand Ms reasons for not wanting to provide NFU with a full copy of the report from 
its fire investigator. However, I also havent seen a full copy of the report which means I 
havent been able to consider the full details of Ms fire investigators reasoning, only 
summaries and their comments in response to NFUs forensic investigators report. On the 
other hand, Ive seen detailed reports from NFUs forensic investigator explaining why they 
think the fire was caused by a discarded greasy tissue and not from an electrical fault. Given 
that Ive seen a more detailed explanation from NFUs forensic investigator and there are 
findings from Ms fire investigator that I havent been able to consider, on balance, I remain 
more persuaded by NFUs forensic investigators conclusions and therefore Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on its forensic investigators report to conclude that 
the fire was caused by a discarded greasy tissue. 
M has also provided a copy of the letter from the fire brigade. However, while this letter 
indicates that they thought the most likely cause of the fire was an electrical fault, it 
confirmed that the fire brigade didnt carry out an investigation into the cause of the fire. Ive 
read the witness statements from the fire brigade and these also indicate that they thought 
the fire had most likely been caused by an electrical fault, but they didnt investigate it. So, the information from the fire brigade isnt sufficient to persuade me that its unfair or 
unreasonable for NFU to rely on the breach of warranty to turn down Ms claim. Therefore, 
Im not going to interfere with NFUs decision to refuse to pay the claim. 
Incorrect information about the claim being covered
M said NFU initially gave incorrect information about the claim being covered. I havent 
made a finding on whether incorrect information was given because I dont think it matters to 
the outcome of my decision. Thats because I wouldnt expect NFU to have to pay the claim 
on the basis of giving incorrect information. Instead, Id consider whether any incorrect 
information caused M a financial loss it wouldnt otherwise have had. I havent seen anything 
to indicate that any incorrect information that NFU might have given caused M a loss it 
wouldnt otherwise have had. So, Im not going to require NFU to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman