DRN-2504890
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his account without reason or 
notice. 
What happened
Mr T says Barclays closed a number of his accounts without giving him a reason and without 
notice. He also says he had problems accessing his account in the months leading up to the 
accounts being closed and that blocks were applied to them. Mr T would like compensation 
for whats taken place and his accounts reinstated.
Barclays says it correctly closed Mr Ts joint accounts but accepts it didnt need to close his 
personal account.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Barclays didnt need to close Mr Ts sole account and recommended it 
pay Mr T £100 compensation for the inconvenience and distress he was caused. The 
investigator accepted that the account had limited use, but that Mr T may have wanted to 
use it when his joint accounts were closed.
Barclays agrees with the investigators recommendation and says Mr T can apply for a new 
account with it.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says £100 compensation is not enough for what took 
place and for the stress he was caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I accept that Barclays should not have closed Mr Ts personal account and 
that it should pay the compensation recommended by the investigator.
I make clear to Mr T that I am not looking into his complaint about the closure of his joint 
accounts and the restrictions applied to them. And so, I can only consider the impact on Mr T 
caused by the mistake in closing his individual account.
There is no doubt here that Barclays made a mistake by closing Mr Ts sole account as it 
accepts a mistake was made. I accept Mr T was caused some distress and inconvenience 
as a result of what took place, but I dont think that mistake had a significant affect on Mr T 
or that it caused any financial loss.
I have looked at the account activity on the sole account that was closed and can see it had 
extremely limited use. But I accept Mr T may have wished to use that account for what I 
think would have been for a relatively short time period until he could open a new account.
Im satisfied that Barclays ought to pay compensation for its mistake and am satisfied that it 
should pay £100 which I think is a fair and reasonable amount. I think that award reflects the 
level of Barclays mistake and that I think its impact was limited.
I appreciate Mr T will be unhappy with my decision and of course its up to him to decide if 
he wishes to accept my decision. Im satisfied that the greater impact was caused by the 
closure of his main joint accounts and I hope Mr T understands that is something I cant 
comment on for the reasons I have explained.  
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr T £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr T £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman