DRN-4404431
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc havent made reasonable adjustments in
consideration of her disabilities which affect her ability to have taken advantage of a
promotional offer on a money transfer that Sainsburys were offering.
What happened
Ms C wanted to take advantage of a money transfer offer being advertised by Sainsburys.
However, Sainsburys required customers wanting to access the offer to contact them by
telephone, which Ms C was prevented from doing because of the effects of her disabilities.
Sainsburys offered some alternative solutions to Ms C. These included Ms C using a text-
relay service or appointing an authorised representative to speak with Sainsburys on her
behalf. Ms C explained that neither of these options were viable solutions for her and asked
Sainsburys to allow her to access the offer via email, text, or letter. But Sainsburys
explained that their security requirements for the offer had to be undertaken by phone and
so werent willing to make any further adjustments as Ms C would like. Ms C wasnt happy
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys responded to Ms C and confirmed that they felt the alternative options theyd
already offered were reasonable adjustments and that they werent willing to consider her as
having passed the necessary security protocols by written correspondence as she was
requesting. Ms C wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so she referred her complaint
to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Sainsburys had taken
sufficient account of Ms Cs disabilities or made reasonable adjustments for her. Because of
this, they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Ms Cs favour and that Sainsburys
should work out a way to allow Ms C to take advantage of the offer without the need for any
form of telephone contact. And they also said that Sainsburys should make a payment of
£200 to Ms C as compensation for the trouble and upset this matter had caused her.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our instigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 October 2023 as follows:
Ms C has complained that Sainsburys has failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments
under the Equality Act 2010. While we do take relevant law and regulation into account when
arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair
outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and
circumstances of a complaint into consideration. As such, Ive considered this complaint
from that perspective. If Ms C wants a decision that Sainsburys has breached the Equality
Act 2010, then shed need to go to Court.
Sainsburys have explained that their security protocols for money transfers are such that
customers are required to verbally pass security with them. And Sainsburys have explained
that it isnt possible under their security protocols for a customer to pass security in a non-
verbal manner. Conversely, Ms C has explained that the effects of her disabilities are such
that shed unable to contact Sainsburys by telephone as they require.
Sainsburys have been provided with a description of Ms Cs disabilities by our investigator,
and so I wont repeat that description here. But I will state that Im satisfied from Ms Cs
testimony that it isnt reasonable for Sainsburys to expect her to speak with them by
telephone as their standard process requires.
In circumstances where a customer has a disability that reasonably prevents them from
complying with a policy maintained by a business  as is the case in this instance  it would
generally be expected that the business would make reasonable adjustments to facilitate
their customer being able to achieve their objective via alternative means.
Sainsburys say that they have made reasonable adjustments for Ms C. Specifically,
Sainsburys gave Ms C the option of passing telephone security by either using a text relay
service or by appointing an authorised third-party to speak to Sainsburys on her behalf.
But Ms C has explained to this service that shes unable to use a text relay service because
doing so has a similar detrimental effect on her as a phone call does, because of her
disabilities. And shes also explained that she doesnt have anyone whom she trusts to act
as a representative on her behalf. And Im satisfied from Ms Cs explanation that the two
alternatives Sainsburys proposed arent suitable for her.
However, while I accept that the alternatives offered by Sainsburys arent suitable for Ms C,
it doesnt necessary follow from this that Sainsburys havent made reasonable adjustments
for her. And this is because I feel it may be the case that the nature of Ms Cs disabilities
might be such that, in this instance, there is no reasonable adjustment that Sainsburys could
make which would allow Ms C to access the promotional offer as she would like.
Ms C may argue that Sainsburys could reasonably make the adjustment that shes
requested all along  which would be to allow her to pass their security protocols via a
written method, potentially by email or by text message. But the Equality Act 2020 does
allow for businesses to have limitations on how people with protected characteristics can
access their services, if it can be demonstrated that any limitation is the result of a business
achieving a legitimate aim.
I think that Sainsburys requirement for its customers to pass security verbally is a limitation
imposed to facilitate the achievement of a legitimate aim  the security of its customers
accounts. And because of this I think that a Court of Law would likely say that limiting how
consumers are able to provide security on their accounts in order to keep those accounts
secure from fraudsters, should be considered as a legitimate aim, and therefore wouldnt be
a breach of the provisions of the Act  although this is, of course, only my opinion.
It follows therefore that I accept that Sainsburys are fairly entitled to have the security
requirements that they do here. And given that I accept that Ms C reasonably cant use ether
the telephone or a text relay service and doesnt have anyone available to her who can act
as an authorised representative on her behalf, the question becomes whether there are any
other reasonable adjustments that Sainsburys can make.In this instance, upon consideration, I dont feel that there are any other reasonable
alternatives that Sainsburys can offer Ms C. Ive considered whether it might have been
possible for Ms C to have gone into a branch of Sainsburys bank and had a private
conversation with a staff member who could have completed Sainsburys security process
with her. But even if this was a viable option for Ms C  which hasnt been confirmed  there
doesnt appear to a suitable Sainsburys Bank location close to Ms C for any such private
meeting with a staff member to take place.
Unfortunately, it seems to me that there is no reasonable adjustment that Sainsburys can
make that sits within their security requirements  which Im satisfied its reasonable for them
to have  but which allows Ms C to access the promotional offer as she would like. While I
can appreciate that this is frustrating for Ms C, I dont feel that it can be said that Sainsburys
have acted unfairly towards her in this regard. This is because, ultimately, there doesnt
appear to be any possible way for Ms C, given the effects of her disabilities, to be able to
pass Sainsburys reasonable security requirements in this unfortunate instance.
However, while it follows from the above that I wont be upholding this aspect of Ms Cs
complaint or instructing Sainsburys to offer any further alternatives to her, I will be
provisionally upholding this complaint in Ms Cs favour on another basis. This is because I
dont feel that Sainsburys have taken due consideration of Ms Cs disabilities here or
provided a reasonable explanation to her as to why theyre unable to offer any further
alternative solutions to her.
Sainsburys may argue that Ms C didnt provide enough information to them to enable them
to do this. But Ms C did explain that she has disabilities that prevent her from using the
telephone. And because of this, I feel that the onus was on Sainsburys to have proactively
obtained further information from Ms C  such as why she felt the appointed representative
and text relay service options werent viable options for her  and to have then provided an
explanation to Ms C, similar to that which Ive outlined above, if they continued to feel that no
further options could reasonably be provided to her.
In short, while I dont feel that Sainsburys have acted unfairly here in regard to not allowing
Ms C to pass security in a non-verbal manner as she would like, I dont feel that Sainsburys
have provided a fair standard of service to Ms C surrounding her request to be allowed to
pass their security protocols in a non-verbal manner. And I feel that Sainsburys lack of
reasonable engagement with Ms C on this matter has caused Ms C a degree of upset and
frustration which shouldnt have been the case.
As such, my provisional decision here will be that Im upholding this complaint in Ms Cs
favour on this limited basis only and instructing Sainsburys to make a payment of £200 to
Ms C as compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the effects of Sainsburys poor communication on
Ms C, as shes described it to this service, as well as the general framework which this
service considers when assessing compensation amounts  details of which are on this
services website. And, having done so, I feel that £200 is a fair compensation amount.
Ms C responded to my provisional decision and explained that she was able to apply for a 
balance transfer with Sainsburys without needing to speak with anyone, and so felt that she 
should also be able to apply for a money transfer in the same way.
However, as explained in my provisional decision letter, I feel that its for Sainsburys to set 
the security requirements for the various products and transfers that they provide. Additionally, while balance transfers and money transfers are similar in many respects, they 
are, ultimately, different types of transfer. For instance, with a money transfer, the amount 
transferred is available to be withdrawn from the recipient bank account immediately. And 
because of this, I can understand why Sainsburys would have more stringent security 
measures in place on money transfers than they do for other, less risky, types of transfer. 
Sainsburys also responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that they were happy 
to accept it to bring this matter to a close. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final 
decision here whereby I uphold this complaint in Ms Cs favour on the limited basis 
described in my provisional decision. And I confirm that I do uphold this complaint in Ms Cs 
favour on that limited basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Sainsburys must make a payment of £200 to Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman