DRN-4052129
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc caused delays with a redemption statement for his 
mortgage. As a result, his sale fell through. 
What happened
Mr Js interest only mortgage has been in arrears for some time. The term expired in 
October 2022 with an unpaid balance. 
Mr J told Santander he was in the process of selling the property and expected exchange 
and completion to happen at the end of November 2022. Mr J says due to errors and delays 
by Santander his sale fell through. This left him in a difficult position, potentially homeless 
and with debts.
Mr J says Santander extended the term of his mortgage without telling him and at a high 
interest rate. He says this was illegal.
Our investigator said Mr Js solicitor asked for a redemption statement on 23 November 
2022. Santander issued the redemption statement on 30 November 2022, which was within 
its usual timescales (of seven to 10 working days). Our investigator said Santander wasnt 
responsible for Mr Js buyer pulling out. Our investigator said Santander made Mr J aware of 
the mortgage expiry date and the outstanding balance. She said the mortgage would be 
redeemed when it was repaid. 
Mr J didnt agree, saying:
Hes a vulnerable customer for health, mental health and financial reasons and should 
be treated fairly. He said Santanders communications werent clear and it lacks integrity.
Santander should have told him in advance there would be a shortfall, not leave this to 
the intended completion date. He said the paperwork should have been ready the day he 
received an offer, and Santander should have offered a solution to the shortfall. 
The figures hed been given by phone and in the redemption statement were incorrect. 
He said he hadnt had an answer to his question about his purchaser contacting 
Santander directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr Js complaint is about what happened in late 2022, Ive briefly summarised the 
background to this complaint, as the circumstances are relevant. I should also say that 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr Js mortgage has been in arrears for some time. Mr J had a sale of the property fall 
through in 2016. At that time, the mortgage balance was about £335,000 (including arrears 
of about £5,000). Mr Js arrears increased to about £55,000 in 2019 and to about £100,000 
in early 2022. Santander wrote to Mr J about the debt and the possibility of court action 
leading to taking possession of the property. It obtained a court order for possession and a 
warrant with an eviction date.
In March 2022 Mr Js solicitor asked Santander for a redemption statement. By this time the 
mortgage balance was about £435,000. Santander cancelled the eviction pending the sale of 
the property. In mid-2022 Mr J said hed put the property back on the market.  
In mid-September 2022 Mr J told Santander hed accepted an offer of £440,000 for his 
property. Santander put recovery action on hold. On 21 November 2022 Mr J told Santander 
the buyers wanted to exchange and complete on 29 November 2022. 
Mr Js solicitor asked Santander for a redemption statement on 23 November 2022. 
Santanders usual timescale to issue a redemption statement is seven to 10 days. Santander 
needed to check with its solicitors as legal costs related to recovery action were included in 
the redemption amount. Santander issued the redemption statement in five working days  
within its usual timescale. 
Mr J says when the redemption statement arrived on 30 November 2022 it was too late for 
the sale to complete. The sale fell through. I dont think its fair to say this was due to an 
error by Santander, which issued the redemption statement without any unreasonable delay.
Mr J says there were errors in the redemption statement and Santander didnt send it to his 
solicitor by email. If so, this wouldnt have changed the outcome. The redemption statement 
would still have arrived too late for completion at the end of November 2022. 
Mr J called Santander in late November 2022 to chase the redemption statement. Santander 
told him the mortgage balance was about £447,000 and the redemption amount would be 
higher. The sale price agreed by Mr J wasnt enough to repay the mortgage. Had the sale 
gone ahead, there would have been a shortfall debt which Mr J said he was unable to pay. 
Mr J says Santander should have told him in advance thered be a shortfall. Given the 
mortgage balance was about £435,000 in March 2022, monthly interest was about £1,600 
and Mr J made no payments during the eight months since March 2022, he ought 
reasonably to have known this was a possibility. While Santander could have asked Mr J 
earlier what arrangements hed made to pay the shortfall, its unclear that it would have 
changed the outcome. 
Santanders notes on 29 November 2022 say Mr J wanted the redemption figure so he could 
borrow funds or ask the buyer for a higher offer  presumably these didnt turn out to be 
viable options. Santander said it could take two to three months for the shortfall sales team 
to make a decision. I dont know if Santander would have agreed to a sale for less than the 
outstanding balance  or if Mr J would have gone ahead knowing hed be liable for the 
shortfall. The issue might not have been resolved in time for the sale to complete at the end 
of November 2022. And the sale might still have fallen through if it had.
While Mr J says Santander should offer a solution, its under no obligation to write off the 
shortfall (if thats what hes suggesting). Id expect Santander to consider fairly any proposals 
Mr J puts forward regarding repayment of any shortfall.
When Mr J took out the mortgage, he agreed to repay it by the end of the term. The term 
expired in October 2022, with an unpaid balance. Mr J continues to owe this debt. I dont think its unfair for Santander to apply interest to the debt.
Mr J says its possible his buyer will contact Santander directly. Mr J says he wont accept 
this, or Santander selling the property for less than hed agreed with the buyer. I cant fairly 
look into events that havent yet happened, and might never happen. 
If Santander takes possession of the security property, rules on mortgage regulation say it 
should obtain the best price reasonably available. It will need to balance this with selling the 
property quickly as unpaid interest will increase the amount of debt owed by Mr J. This 
would reduce any equity Mr J might have in the property  or increase the shortfall that hed 
be responsible for repaying. 
I dont think Santander treated Mr J unfairly. It put legal action on hold when Mr J said he 
had a buyer for the property, to allow time for the sale to complete. I dont think it caused 
unreasonable delays with the redemption statement. Mr J is right that rules on mortgage 
regulation say that lenders must deal fairly with any customer who has a mortgage shortfall 
or is vulnerable, and Id expect Santander to be aware of this when dealing with Mr J.
Mr J says hes in financial difficulty and worried about what will happen. I appreciate that this 
is a difficult time for Mr J, and he has limited options. While its unfortunate that the sale he 
agreed fell through, I dont think, based on the available evidence, this was due to errors or 
delays by Santander.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman