DRN-2940141
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the way AWP P&C SA handled a claim he made under his home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr E experienced flooding from his downstairs toilet. After the local water 
company couldnt resolve the issue, he made a claim on his home emergency insurance 
policy. 
AWP appointed a company Ill call D to investigate what was causing the problem. After 
some delays, an engineer attended Mr Es home, but wasnt able to diagnose or fix the 
problem. D was due to reattend the following day, but ultimately, AWP asked a company Ill 
call C to look into the problem. AWP also suggested that Mr E should stay in a hotel and 
claim back the costs from it. 
The next day, after its engineers were given incorrect information about Mr Es address by 
C, one of is engineers visited Mr Es home. He was able to fix the issue. Overall, Mr E was 
without toilet facilities for two and a half days.
Mr E was unhappy with the way AWP had handled his claim and the delays in fixing the 
toilet. So he complained to AWP. It acknowledged its agents had provided Mr E with poor 
service and hadnt handled the claim with enough urgency. So it offered to refund Mr Es 
annual premium of £45 and it said it would consider a claim for any costs related to the 
service itd provided upon the provision of receipts. Mr E was still unhappy with AWPs 
position and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator asked AWP for its business file, but it didnt respond within the deadlines he 
gave. Based on what Mr E had provided, the investigator felt it would be fair for AWP to pay 
him £200 compensation on top of its existing premium refund offer, to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused him.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessment. Mr E didnt feel the compensation was 
enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience he and his wife had been caused. He 
said that due to Covid-19, they hadnt been able to use anyone elses toilet facilities and had 
had to make use of a bucket at home. He said this had caused them humiliation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Given I have no reason to doubt AWP was aware from early on that Mr E had no 
access to any other toilet facilities; I think it and its agents shouldve treated his claim 
as urgent. Ive borne in mind the background of Covid-19, which meant that Mr E and 
his household couldnt stay with a third party to make use of their facilities. 
Instead, it seems that both D and C made several mistakes when investigating the 
cause of Mr Es claim. AWP accepts that D misdiagnosed the fault, which led to 
further delays in the repair being carried out. It seems both D and C caused 
avoidable and unreasonable delays to a fix being completed. This led to Mr E being 
left without toilet facilities for two and a half days when it seems the issue couldve 
been fixed sooner. Mr Es home was therefore uninhabitable. Hes described the 
impact this had on him. I dont doubt his testimony that he was caused upset and 
humiliation by having to make use of a bucket and by being without essential 
facilities.
However, it appears that AWP did suggest to Mr E, on the second evening, that he 
should stay in a hotel until the repairs had been completed and then claim back the 
cost. It isnt clear that Mr E did so though and I cant reasonably hold AWP 
responsible if Mr E chose not to take up this suggestion. This would have limited Mr 
Es inconvenience.
Overall, Im satisfied the fair outcome to this complaint is for AWP to pay Mr E £200 
compensation, in addition to the £45 premium refund its already offered. I think this 
is a fair award to recognise the trouble and upset AWPs handling of the claim had on 
Mr E and to take account of the impact of its poor service. AWPs also offered to 
consider a claim for any service-related costs if Mr E provides it with receipts. I think 
this is a fair offer and one Id have directed AWP to make if it hadnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to:
- Pay Mr E £200 compensation
- Pay Mr E £45 representing a refund of premium if it hasnt already done so.
- Consider a claim for related expenses, on provision of evidence of those costs from 
Mr E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman