DRN-2980181
The complaint
Mr S says that a default was recorded on his credit file later than it should have been. As a 
result, it will remain on his file for some time after it should have been removed. Mr S says 
NewDay Ltd is responsible, for reasons which I shall explain.  
What happened
Mr S had two credit cards, an Aqua card and a Marbles card. Both were issued and 
administered By NewDay. 
By around March 2017 Mr S had fallen behind with payments on both cards. NewDay 
agreed payment arrangements, by which Mr S would pay just under £20 a month on one 
card and just over £10 a month on the other. Payments were made in March and May 2017, 
but no payments were received in April. A default notice was issued on one of the cards  
that is, a notification that the agreed payment had not been made, with information about 
what Mr S needed to do to rectify things. 
In July 2017 NewDay assigned both debts to a different company, which Ill call L. L 
defaulted the accounts in 2018. It later amended the date of default to July 2017. It says that 
NewDay told it that the accounts had been defaulted at that time  that is, around the time of 
the assignment. Mr S thought that NewDay should have defaulted the accounts earlier. 
Initially, one of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. He did not believe that 
NewDay had defaulted either account before it sold the debts to L. He thought however that, 
given the low level of payments being made, it should have done. He noted however that L 
had backdated the defaults to July 2017 on the basis of information provided by NewDay. Mr 
Ss credit file had been amended to reflect that, but the investigator recommended that 
NewDay pay him £100 by way of compensation. 
NewDay did not accept Mr Ss recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. One of my ombudsman colleagues did that and, because he was minded to reach a 
different conclusion from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
Like the investigator, the first ombudsman concluded that NewDay had not defaulted the 
accounts before assigning them to L. However, he did not believe it should have done. The 
payments that were being made under the payment arrangement were more than token 
payments. And, because the defaults had, in effect, been backdated, Mr S was not 
disadvantaged by any confusion about that issue. 
Mr S did not accept the provisional decision. He noted that the ombudsman had said that a 
default notice had been sent in May 2017 in respect of one of the accounts  indicating that 
at least one account had been defaulted but that the default had not been recorded when it 
should have been. The ombudsman explained that the Default Notice did not register a 
default; rather, it was a step that NewDay was legally required to take before it could default 
the account.
The original ombudsman is not in a position to carry out a final review of the case, so it has 
been passed to me to do that.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the first ombudsman did in 
his provisional decision, and for similar reasons.
Mr S does not dispute that he owed money to NewDay over two credit card accounts or that 
he was having difficulty repaying what he owed. He says that NewDay, with which he had 
agreed repayment plans, should have taken more robust action than it did  specifically, by 
defaulting the accounts. Had it done so, defaults would have been registered sooner than 
they were and would also therefore be removed that much sooner. 
I am satisfied that no defaults were registered before the debts were assigned to L. The 
default notice sent to Mr S in May 2107 was sent to comply with sections 87 to 89 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Until it had been sent, NewDay could not, for example, end the 
credit agreement or demand early payment. It also gave Mr S a period in which to pay the 
arrears due. If Mr S had made that payment, the effect of section 89 would have been that 
his breach of the repayment agreement would have been treated as if it had not occurred. 
Relevant guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) say that, for 
recording purposes, token payments should be treated in a similar way to debts where no 
payment is being made. The guidelines say that a default may be recorded after three 
months and that the ICO would expect one to be recorded after no more than six months of 
arrears. 
In this case however, I agree with the first ombudsman that the payments being made were 
not simply token payments. Whilst they were small in comparison to the sums owing, they 
would over time have had an impact on the amounts outstanding. And the different sums 
that were agreed reflected the amounts owing on each account. For that reason, I do not 
believe that I can fairly say NewDay should have registered a default. 
As the first ombudsman noted, there was some confusion about the sequence of events 
here. NewDay told L, incorrectly, that it had defaulted the accounts. The result of that was 
however that L backdated its default registration to July 2017.
That error on the part of NewDay did not cause Mr S any financial loss. He owed the same, 
whether the default was registered in July 2017 or at a later date. Arguably, it may even be 
to Mr Ss advantage, since the default will be removed from his credit record earlier than 
would otherwise have been the case. 
Nor does it seem to me that the error caused Mr S any material distress or inconvenience. 
He believed in any event that defaults had already been registered. When he found out that 
was not the case, he argued that they should have been. So, whilst NewDay appears to 
have provided incorrect information to L, I do not believe it would be fair to require it to pay 
Mr S any compensation in respect of that. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require NewDay Ltd to take any further steps to resolve Mr 
Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman