DRN-3502098
The complaint
R complains that it was declined a start-up loan from SWIG Finance Limited (SWIG).
What happened
R applied for a start-up loan of £17,500 from SWIG in January 2021. SWIG declined the 
application. R appealed and SWIG confirmed its decision to decline the loan.
R complained. It said SWIG hadnt fulfilled its promised to call and email it, nor had SWIG 
provided a mentor as promised. R said SWIG made allegations of threats and refused to 
communicate further. R said that there was income being generated in the first 12 months  
contrary to what SWIG had said when it declined the application. R called upon SWIGs 
executives to resign and said they were not fit for office.
SWIG said it emailed R with its decision to decline the loan. The reason for the decline was 
the lack of sales in the first 12 months of trading. And so, it didnt consider the business to be 
viable. It invited R to appeal and provided some guidance on how to adjust Rs business 
plan in the appeal. R appealed and SWIG declined the application again. SWIG apologised 
that its decision to reject the application wasnt followed up with a phone call. 
R brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said SWIG acted reasonably. She said SWIG 
was entitled to take its own commercial decisions  and we cant interfere with that. But she 
said SWIG had explained the reasons for its decision. It had given advice to R on how to 
change its business plan in readiness for appeal. She said that SWIGs mentoring service 
was for applicants who were successful in applying for a loan, so it wasnt applicable to R. 
She could see that SWIG had been unhappy with the tone of some emails sent to its staff by 
R and thought that SWIG was entitled to take what it considered to be appropriate action to 
safeguard staff. 
R didnt agree and asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that its for SWIG to take its own commercial decisions about Rs 
application, based on its own lending criteria. Thats for SWIG to decide  and we wont 
interfere with that. So - Im not going to comment on Rs business plan or proposals. But  
our role is to see if SWIG acted reasonably in the way it did that, for example, by 
communicating with R in a way that was clear and not misleading.
I can see that SWIG let R know it declined the application by email. It gave its reasons for 
the decline. It invited R to appeal the decision and gave some suggestions as to how the 
application could be improved. That seemed to me to be a reasonable approach for SWIG to 
take.
I can also see that it was part of SWIGs process to call R to explain its decision. SWIG 
didnt do that and apologised to R for that omission. Which to me, seems a reasonable thing 
to do.
R said it hadnt been given a business mentor, which was part of SWIGs offer to customers. 
I looked at that  and SWIGs website says a mentor would be provided once you receive a 
loan. And  as R hadnt been given the loan, a mentor wasnt applicable. So  SWIG acted 
here in line with its offer and processes.
R then emailed SWIG about the decision on 26 February 2021. The email said that a call 
hadnt been received from SWIG about the application; and a mentor hadnt been provided. 
Ive already commented on the first two points.
But  it went on to say SWIG acted illegally; that Rs appeal hadnt been properly 
considered; and SWIG had acted in a discriminatory way and breached its contract. The 
email called for SWIGs management to resign. SWIG responded by saying that it didnt see 
the need for R to reply in such a manner, and the email had used threatening language. 
SWIG said it didnt want to communicate with R again.
Ive considered what R said about SWIG in its email. R hasnt specified why it think it was 
discriminated against. But - Ive reviewed Rs application and its file with SWIG  and Ive not 
seen anything that suggests that SWIG acted in an unfair way. Rather, Ive can see that it 
assessed Rs business plan in line with its lending processes and principles  in a way we 
would expect it to do so for any customer application. It looks to me that R was 
understandably frustrated at not being given the loan  and so showed that in the email that 
was sent.
I can see that R feels strongly about what happened and so will be disappointed by my 
decision  but Im not going to ask SWIG to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman