DRN-1740874
The complaint
Miss D has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that it turned down 
her claim under her staining and accidental damage furniture insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D took out a staining and accidental insurance policy when she bought her new leather 
suite in March 2015 and the policy was valid for five years. In October 2018 Miss D made a 
claim under her policy as she said the leather on her sofa was ripping and the quality wasnt 
very good.
But when Ageas looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because it felt the problems 
with the sofa were caused by wear and tear which was excluded under the policy. When 
Miss D complained about this it explained that the policy didnt cover every eventuality and 
as Miss D hadnt specified a defined accident it thought the damage was caused by wear 
and tear. So, as Miss D remained unhappy, she complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss D but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought 
the damage to Miss Ds suite was most likely caused by wear and tear. And as there wasnt 
a clearly defined incident that caused the damage she didnt feel Ageas had acted 
unreasonably.
As Miss D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss D but having looked at everything provided 
by both sides Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Miss D first made her claim to Ageas she didnt outline a specific event that caused 
the damage. Instead she said that she didnt feel the quality of the suite was very good and 
explained that the leather was ripping. But at this point in time she had the suite for over 
three years, and it appears the damage is consistent with wear and tear which is what she 
described initially. I know Miss D felt the quality of the suite wasnt very high, but her 
insurance policy doesnt cover that, and she clearly said the issue hadnt happened suddenly 
but over a period of time.
As our investigator and Ageas explained Miss Ds insurance policy doesnt cover every 
eventuality and defines what it would cover. And had her suite been damaged by a defined 
incident (the policy gives examples such as accidental damage which results in a stain, rip, 
tear, burn, scratch, puncture or scuff or staining caused by contact with a substance) then 
she wouldve been covered. But the policy doesnt cover wear and tear which is what 
appears to have caused the problems with the suite. In order for her claim to be successful 
there would had to have been an insured event as outlined in the policy. 
Miss D says that she took care and used a leather care product every few weeks, but she 
still had the problem. And at a later stage Miss D outlined that the care kit may have caused 
the damage and at another point that there had been a spillage. But Ageas looked at the 
photos provided of the suite and concluded that there was colour loss and wear and tear, but 
it didnt think there was any evidence of staining or accidental damage. 
Ive looked at the photos and what is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
know Miss D feels she knows what wear and tear is and that the damage was caused by an 
insurable event. But I cant say from reviewing all of the evidence that Ageas has acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim as there isnt sufficient evidence of an insurable event. I 
say this as the damage appears to be caused by wear and tear, which is what Miss D 
reported in the first instance and isnt covered under the policy. 
So, although I can understand Miss Ds frustration with the quality of her suite and the level 
of wear and tear caused I cant say Ageas has done anything wrong. I say this as this isnt 
covered under the insurance policy Ageas provided so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to cover 
the claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman