DRN-2909508
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased the 
credit limit of her credit card. 
  
What happened
Miss M applied for a credit card with Aqua in January 2015. In her application, Miss M said 
she was employed and earned £10,000. Miss M has told us she was a full time student with 
a part time job when her application was made. Aqua looked at Miss Ms credit file and 
application information and decided to proceed. A credit limit of £300 was approved. 
In September 2015 Aqua increased Miss Ms credit limit to £1,000. Further increases to 
£2,000 in January 2016 and £3,250 in May 2016 followed. 
Miss M has told us she was struggling with her finances throughout the period and Aquas 
decisions to increase her credit limit caused further difficulties. Miss Ms account fell into 
arrears and was closed in January 2019. Aqua sold the debt to a third party and it a default 
was registered in December 2019. Miss M has told us she has since repaid the outstanding 
balance to the business that bought the credit card debt from Aqua. 
Miss M complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly but it didnt agree and said it had carried 
out the relevant checks before deciding to proceed. Miss M referred her complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought Aquas decision to 
approve the credit card and increase the credit limit to £1,000 was reasonable based on 
what it knew about Miss M. But the investigator thought Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved further credit limit increases up to £3,250. 
Aqua asked to appeal and said the credit limit increases were all made in line with its lending 
criteria. As Aqua asked to appeal, Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a lender agrees to lend, we would normally expect to see evidence that it had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that repayments are sustainable for 
the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to take into account. But lenders may 
decide to carry out more comprehensive checks when taking into account factors like a 
borrowers income, the level of repayments required, the length of the term and other credit 
they have outstanding. 
In this case, Aqua asked Miss M about her employment and income when she applied and 
was told she earned £10,000 a year. Aqua also carried out a credit search and didnt find 
any arrears or a high level of outstanding credit. Aqua says it then applied its lending criteria 
and approved a credit limit of £300. In my view, Aqua completed proportionate checks when 
it approved Miss Ms credit card. 
Around nine months later, Aqua increased Miss Ms credit limit to £1,000. I appreciate thats 
not a substantial amount on the face of it, but I think its reasonable to note the new credit 
limit was more than three times the old one. I note that in the month before the credit limit 
was increased Miss M incurred a late payment fee and that she incurred another late 
payment fee in September 2015, the same month her credit limit increased. That being said, 
Miss M had previously managed her account within the agreed limits and the credit limit was 
still reasonably low when compared with her income. 
Aqua says it again reviewed Miss Ms account use, information recorded in her application 
and credit file and took the decision to increase the credit limit. Im satisfied Aqua did 
complete proportionate checks and that its decision to increase the credit limit to £1,000 was 
reasonable based on what it knew about Miss M. 
Like the investigator, I have concerns about the decision to increase Miss Ms credit limit to 
£2,000. This increase came four months after Aqua had increased Miss Ms credit limit from 
£300 to £1000. As Ive said above, Miss M missed her first payment at the increased credit 
limit of £1,000. And looking at the credit file data Aqua had at hand, I can see Miss M had 
arrears information reported in two of the three months preceding the increase to £2,000. I 
also think Aqua shouldve considered the fact that in the space of one year it increased Miss 
Ms credit limit from £300 to £2,000. Thats a substantial increase. 
I also think its reasonable to note Miss Ms declared income was reasonably low which 
meant she had less flexibility if something went wrong. Taking all the available information 
into account, I think Aqua shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks before decision 
to increase Miss Ms credit limit. 
Ive considered what Aqua wouldve found if it had carried out better checks. It couldve 
asked for various pieces of information, like bank statements, evidence of Miss Ms income 
and outgoings or a full credit search. Miss M has sent us a copy of her credit file and I can 
see new credit commitments including a mobile phone financing arrangement, hire 
purchase, personal loan and catalogue account showing. Had Aqua asked for a full copy of 
Miss Ms credit file or her bank statements I think they wouldve seen she was increasingly 
reliant on credit and borrowing more. 
Had Aqua carried out more comprehensive checks, I dont think it wouldve agreed to 
approve the credit limit increase from £1,000 to £2,000. I agree with the investigator that 
Aqua lent irresponsibly in this case. 
The investigator has provided a detailed analysis of why they feel the decision to increase 
Miss Ms credit limit further to £3,250 was irresponsible. I broadly agree with everything 
theyve said. And it follows that if I think it was irresponsible to increase Miss Ms credit limit 
to £2,000 I agree that further increases without additional checks shouldnt have been 
approved either. 
Ive looked at the affordability data Aqua has supplied and can see that in the four months 
before it increased the credit limit to £3,250 Miss M incurred three late payment fees. Miss M 
also had a missed payment recorded by another lender on her credit file. In line with the 
previous credit limit increase, I think Aqua needed to ensure it was carrying out proportionate 
checks to ensure repayments were sustainable for Miss M. For the same reasons, I think 
Aqua wouldve decided not to increase Miss Ms credit limit as it wouldve found she was 
unable to maintain repayments in the long term. Ultimately, Miss M wasnt able to maintain her payments and the credit card was closed, 
sold and defaulted. That has a lasting impact on Miss M as the default will remain on her 
credit file for six years. As I agree Aqua lent irresponsibly, I dont think its fair for adverse 
information like arrears and the default to be reported after the credit limit above £1,000 was 
approved. So Im going to tell Aqua to amend Miss Ms credit file. 
Miss Ms account was sold to a third party and subsequently defaulted. Aqua will need to 
liaise with the third party to ensure adverse information, including the default, is removed 
from Miss Ms credit file. Aqua may need to consider the options available to ensure the 
settlement is put in place, including whether to purchase the debt back from the third party. 
Aqua recently told our investigator that it didnt think the requirement for it to pay 8% interest 
on the refunds is right because Miss M hasnt suffered a financial loss. I disagree, Miss M 
has lost out financially because she paid interest against sums that were lent irresponsibly. 
So Im telling Aqua to refund the interest payments Miss M made above £1,000 and apply 
8% interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement to reflect that. 
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit above £1,000 I think the 
fairest approach is for it to refund all interest and charges on balances exceeding that 
amount to Miss M. Miss M has repaid the outstanding balance, the refund should be paid to 
her directly and interest applied. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to settle 
as follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied from January 2016 onwards against balance 
over £1,000 and add 8% interest from the date of each payment Miss M made to the 
date of settlement
- Take the necessary steps to amend Miss Ms credit file and remove all adverse 
information recorded from January 2016 to date
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman