DRN-3851424
The complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited didnt do enough to address the delays and errors 
that occurred, and their impact, when he came to take his pension benefits.
What happened
Mr R held several pension plans with ReAssure. His arrangements included a guaranteed 
protected tax-free cash sum. Mr R was due to be able to take his benefits when he turned 60 
in late July 2021 and that was when he had wanted to do so.
In March 2021, Mr R was admitted to hospital due to his poor mental health. Whilst in 
hospital, he took part in a trial for a new treatment, which had particular benefits. Mr R was 
discharged from hospital at the start of June 2021. He was told he would need ongoing 
treatment.
On 7 July 2021, Mr R called ReAssure to discuss the options available to him to take his 
pension benefits. During the call Mr R was told that his options pack would be sent to him by 
post. Mr R didnt receive the pack and complained to ReAssure.
On 28 July 2021, ReAssure wrote to Mr R and apologised for the delay, they let him know 
they would send him a cheque for £150 to reflect his distress and inconvenience. They also 
said his options pack would be sent. 
The cheque sent to Mr R was wrongly made out to the name of the complaint handler at 
ReAssure. Mr R complained to ReAssure, not only about the cheque, but also because his 
options pack had still not been received. He asked if his benefits would be back dated to his 
birthday in late July 2021.
ReAssure responded on 11 August 2021, apologising for the error with the cheque and 
confirming the value of his plan was locked on the maturity date (when Mr R turned 60). 
Because of their error with the first cheque, ReAssure added an additional £50 to the cheque 
for £200 which was then sent to Mr R. ReAssure also told Mr R his options pack would be 
sent as a priority.
By 6 September 2021, Mr R had still not received his options pack and called ReAssure to 
find out what was going on. ReAssure issued Mr Rs options pack on 7 September 2021. 
The pack contained the information that a sum of £27,073.86 would be paid to Mr R as his 
tax-free cash entitlement.
Mr R confirmed his selected benefits to ReAssure. As he had not received an application 
form, Mr R contacted ReAssure. ReAssure issued the application forms to Mr R on 28 
September 2021. The information again included the sum for the tax-free cash of 
£27,073.86.
Mr R received, completed, and returned the forms on 30 September 2021. Later that day, 
due to a deterioration in his mental health, Mr R was admitted to hospital where he remained 
for some time and was clearly very unwell.
Mr R did not receive any confirmation or contact from ReAssure regarding his application, so 
he called them from hospital on 27 October 2021. He noted that if he had not received the 
payment selected by 3 November 2021, he intended to take the matter further.
ReAssure contacted Mr R on 1 November 2021 to explain there had been an error in their 
previous communications. They noted the tax-free cash sum previously been quoted had 
been wrong. The new retirement pack quoted a tax-free lump sum of £19,756.52. So there 
was over £7,000 difference to the sum he had previously been told would be paid. Mr R 
complained to ReAssure about this.
Mr R received the tax-free cash payment of £19,756.52 in early November. He says he 
received it the day after he was told it was going to be less than he had previously been told. 
ReAssure also set up Mr Rs annuity.
ReAssure wrote to Mr R on 11 November 2021 and acknowledged they had made errors in 
the packs sent to him on 7 and 28 September and apologised for this. ReAssure explained 
the difference in the tax-free sum quotes had been due to an administrative error. They 
apologised and sent Mr R a further £150 in compensation.
Mr R didnt think ReAssure had done enough and referred his complaint to this service. In 
particular he told us he thought ReAssure ought to pay him the sum they had first quoted in 
respect of the tax-free sum due.
Mr R has gone on to tell us more, including further information about how he feels the issues 
with ReAssure delayed treatment for his poor mental health and how he feels this delay and 
the worry had consequentially exacerbated his condition which ultimately led to his 
hospitalisation. He told us he needed to pay debts and also needed to self-fund part of his 
treatment instead of using the tax-free cash from his pension. As a result, he said he had 
incurred an additional £1,295 of costs including accommodation and travel for himself and a 
carer along with the treatment costs.
Mr Rs mental health care team co-ordinator has confirmed the delays and errors in 
arranging Mr Rs pension had exacerbated and compounded Mr Rs condition. 
Investigators view
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Rs complaint. He accepted ReAssure had 
apologised for the things that had been delayed and gone wrong, but he didnt think they had 
done enough to ensure Mr R was put into the position he ought to have been in. He also 
thought ReAssure ought to increase the amount to be paid to Mr R overall to recognise his 
significant distress and inconvenience.
The investigator provided a timeline of relevant events and when he thought things ought to 
have happened, he also set out his thinking and more about this services approach to 
redress and awards. 
The investigator accepted ReAssure had made a genuine mistake when they had provided 
the higher figure to Mr R in respect of the tax-free cash. 
Having taken account of ReAssures standard working time frames and when Mr R would 
have first been able to take his benefits, the investigator concluded that Mr R ought to have 
received his tax-free cash by 30 August 2021. The investigator thought Mr R ought to have 
had his annuity set up and in place by 6 September 2021.The investigator concluded there was enough information provided and taking into account 
the circumstances to find that the delay had a significantly detrimental impact on Mr Rs 
mental health. This included in respect of the stress and time taken as well as direct worry 
about the funding of treatment.
The investigator agreed that it appeared ReAssure were right when they said they were not 
made aware of the extent of Mr Rs vulnerabilities and needs, however he thought they had 
some knowledge. It was noted for example that Mr R said he told ReAssure in a phone call 
in 2021 that the cash sum was needed for medical treatment, but this did not seem to have 
prompted further enquiry and overall the investigator thought ReAssure ought to have had 
enough information to have made them aware that particular care and consideration ought to 
have been used in this case.
The investigator set out his recommendation on how things needed to be addressed by 
ReAssure. He also thought the overall sum of £350 for Mr Rs distress and inconvenience 
had been inadequate and so he recommended ReAssure ought to pay an addition sum of 
£400, as he concluded this was a case where there had been significant distress caused. 
ReAssure did not directly respond to the view or indicate whether they accept it or not. 
ReAssure confirmed they are aware Mr R did not accept the view and asked for the case to 
be considered by an ombudsman, and as such were content to allow the case to proceed to 
a decision.
Responses by Mr R to the investigators view
Mr R initially asked the investigator to review his findings. He stressed in summary his 
hospital admission had been due in part to ReAssure and the stress involved. He let us 
know his psychiatric nurse had applied to a third party for funding, which, he suggested 
might not have been necessary if hed had his tax-free cash sum. Mr R suggested this might 
have ensured his treatment wasnt delayed, and it was his delay he said which caused him 
to become a risk to himself and seriously unwell. Mr R thinks that if there had not been 
delays, he could have avoided his hospital admission in September 2021.
Mr R shared with us the impact his hospital stay had on him and his family. Mr R didnt think 
it would be inappropriate here for the investigator to conclude ReAssure ought to pay the 
incorrect sum for the tax-free cash that they previously supplied. He doesnt think £400 is 
sufficient. He noted that hed only been told of the mistake in calculation the day before the 
payment was made.
The investigator didnt change his thinking and he explained why. He explained the £400 
was part of an overall award of £750 (where ReAssure had already paid £350) and that he 
was also requiring ReAssure to pay redress.
The investigator didnt think that even if the options pack had been issued sooner, Mr R 
would have received his tax-free sum before 30 August 2021. In reaching this thinking he 
said hed seen Mr R couldnt take benefits until he was aged 60. The investigator confirmed 
he had taken into account everything hed been told of Mr Rs poor health. However he 
wasnt persuaded Mr R ought to receive the tax-free sum which ReAssure had mistakenly in 
September 2021 as this wasnt a sum to which Mr R had ever been entitled.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for his case to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have seen I agree with the investigator in general terms and for 
broadly the same reasons. I am upholding Mr Rs complaint and requiring ReAssure (if Mr R 
accepts my decision) to pay the sums due to him adopting the same redress exercises and 
the same additional payment for Mr Rs distress as previously recommended by the 
investigator. I consider this approach is fair when it comes to putting Mr R as close to the 
position he ought to have been in had the delays and errors not occurred.
ReAssure accept there were multiple delays and errors in their handling of Mr Rs application 
to take his pension benefits. They have apologised and offered a total of £350 in 
compensation thus far. I dont believe this adequately compensates Mr R in the 
circumstances nor does the payment he has received thus far sufficiently reflect the 
significant impact of the errors and delays on Mr Rs mental health.
I accept, although I dont think it is disputed, Mr R wanted to take his pension benefits as 
soon as he was able to after his birthday in late July 2021. I accept he had particularly 
compelling reasons to want this, not least so he was in a position to pay debts and self-fund 
any treatment as needed. Whilst ReAssure might not have been aware that Mr R ought to 
have been considered particularly vulnerable and might need his benefits for medical 
reasons, this does not mean they ought not be considered to bear some responsibility for the 
significant impact the delays and errors had on Mr R. These delays and errors ought not to 
have happened, and it is particularly unfortunate there were repeated mistakes at a time 
when Mr R was very vulnerable.
ReAssure were right to apologise on each occasion. I am not persuaded ReAssure 
adequately reflected (or appreciated) how many mistakes there had been when they 
apologised in November 2021 for any inconvenience caused. I think the repeated errors in 
July, August, September, and November 2021 warranted a greater acknowledgement of real 
distress and poor service, and I also accept by this stage ReAssure were aware of Mr Rs 
potential need of funds for medical treatment.
It is clear that when ReAssure undertook to provide options packs (including as a priority) 
they continued to fail to do so. And when they did eventually provide the pack and forms, 
they provided the wrong information. So I can understand why Mr R is very dis-satisfied. 
My role here is primarily to decide what ReAssure ought to do, if anything. Mr R wanted to 
take his benefits as soon as he could in 2021. These were not available to him until after he 
turned 60 at the end of July 2021. I think its fair to use the date of 30 August 2021 as the 
date by which Mr R ought to have received his tax-free cash sum. Ive seen the information 
provided by ReAssure about their standard time frame, and its reasonable here to apply 
these as if there had been no delays had ReAssure implemented Mr Rs request to take 
benefits on his birthday, following his request for his options pack on 7 July 2021. In general 
terms, the investigators timeline is reasonable. As the investigator explained this is not an 
exact science, but I have reached the same dates as the investigator, having considered 
everything provided, accepting Mr Rs information as credible and having considered what is 
a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
Mr R was never entitled to the tax-free cash sum of £27,073.86. I accept from ReAssure this 
figure was sent in error. Mr R was entitled to the sum of £19,756.52, paid in November 2021, 
but which ought to have been paid by 30 August 2021.  As such Mr R hasnt suffered a 
financial loss, but a loss of expectation in respect of the amount of tax-free cash. I have 
taken this into account when considering a reasonable sum for ReAssure to pay Mr R to 
reflect his distress and inconvenience.Mr R did suffer a financial loss, as the payment of the tax-free sum was delayed, due to 
ReAssures error. ReAssure will need to pay Mr R a sum to reflect Mr Rs loss of use of this 
sum.
Mr Rs monthly annuity payments were also started later than they ought to have been. 
ReAssure will need to pay Mr R a sum to reflect this.
I am left in no doubt that the repeated mistakes and errors, whilst unintentional on the part of 
ReAssure, had a particularly significant impact on Mr R. As such ReAssure will need to pay 
Mr R the sum of £400 to reflect his distress and inconvenience. I would not consider this a 
sufficient sum, if ReAssure had not already paid Mr R the sum of £350. I consider an overall 
sum of £750 is appropriate here. ReAssure have already paid Mr R £350, which is why I 
consider £400 is a fair further sum for them to pay.
I considered carefully whether I ought to increase this sum further. As Mr R understands it 
isnt the role of this service to punish a business. We consider each case on its own facts, 
however there is some further information on our website about how we approach any 
awards for distress and inconvenience.
Here I consider Mr R was caused cumulative substantial distress, upset, and worry and this 
impact continued over some period of time and when he was particularly vulnerable. I 
consider the overall sum of £750 to be the right one. I also hope ReAssure will take onboard 
what happened here and reflect on how things could be done better including when it comes 
to understanding impact.
Mr R told us he needed to pay £1,250 to cover the costs that were also associated with his 
treatment (which he also needed to pay for). These were sums that would have always 
needed to be paid by Mr R (unless funded by a third party) and so I dont consider ReAssure 
ought to pay Mr R this sum.
Ive seen Mr R has let us know he ought to have started re-started treatment in July or 
August 2021 but as he had not received his payment from ReAssure, this could not happen. 
Mr R feels this can be linked to his deterioration and readmission to hospital in September 
2021. I understand why Mr R feels this way and have no doubt this was a distressing time 
for him; however I dont think ReAssure could reasonably have been expected to have paid 
Mr R his tax-free sum before 30 August 2021. This does not mean I dont accept that the 
worry about delays and errors in July and August 2021 will not have played a role in Mr Rs 
poor mental health. I dont consider however that ReAssures errors ought to be considered 
as directly linked to Mr R not receiving treatment in July or August
Putting things right
What ReAssure need to do
ReAssure need to pay Mr R the following sums:
Pay a sum to Mr R to reflect the annuity payments he ought to have received 
between 6 September 2021 to 10 November 2021 (had his annuity been set up from 
6 September 2021 on the terms it was set up in November 2021). 
This represents Mr Rs financial loss in respect of his annuity being started later than 
it ought to have been
Interest on this sum will need to be added at 8% simple a year until the date of 
settlement.Pay a sum to Mr R to reflect the impact of the delay in Mr R receiving his tax-free 
cash sum of £19,756.52 in November 2021 when he ought to have received it by 30 
August 2021. 
This sum is to be calculated by paying Mr R 8% simple interest a year on £19,756.52 
from 30 August 2021 until the day before this sum was paid to Mr R in November 
2021. This represents his loss of use of the sum.
Interest on this sum will need to be added at 8% simple a year until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr R the sum of £400 within 28 days of being informed of Mr Rs acceptance of 
this decision. This is to reflect his distress and inconvenience in respect of delays 
and errors.
My aim is to put Mr R into the position he ought to have been in had it not been for the 
failures in ReAssures service.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Rs complaint against ReAssure limited. ReAssure are 
required to complete the redress exercise set out above and pay all sums due to Mr R as 
well as a sum of £400 to represent his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman