DRN-2573131
The complaint
Ms Ds complaint is that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her that if she rented out her 
property with consent, a 1% loading would be applied to her mortgage interest rate. Ms D 
would like Nationwide to compensate her for the trouble and upset she was caused, and to 
review its procedures.
What happened
Ms D has a residential mortgage account with Nationwide. In January 2020 she wanted to 
rent out the property and contacted Nationwide about obtaining consent to let (CTL). Ms D 
was told that, once the property was rented, she wouldnt be able to switch mortgage 
products. Because her current mortgage product was due to expired in June 2020, Ms D 
didnt go ahead with CTL immediately, but in February 2020 she reserved a new fixed-rate 
product online that began on 1 April 2020. 
Ms D contacted Nationwide again at the end of March 2020 and was told CTL couldnt be 
processed until the tenancy was due to start, which was in two months time. Ms D called 
Nationwide back on 5 May 2020. She was unhappy because shed checked online and saw 
there was a 1% loading on her interest rate if she rented out the property which nobody at 
Nationwide had mentioned during her previous calls. 
Ms D complained about this and wanted Nationwide to waive the additional interest shed be 
charged. Ms D said that if shed known, she wouldnt have switched to a new mortgage 
product. Ms D also asked Nationwide to send out its response to her complaint and the CTL 
form to a different address from the one it had on file. Unfortunately Nationwide used the 
wrong postcode and so Ms D didnt receive the form. 
On 15 May 2020 Ms D contacted Nationwide again as she still hadnt received the CTL form 
or a response to her complaint. Ms D asked for her address to be changed, but failed a 
security question and so it wasnt possible to change the address on the system.
By 26 May 2020 Ms Ds complaint hadnt been resolved to her satisfaction and she 
contacted Nationwide again to complain about this. In its final response letter dated 9 June 
2020, Nationwide acknowledged Ms D should have been given the information about the 1% 
interest rate increase before she switched to a new product so that Ms D could make a 
decision on whether to switch or not.
Nationwide upheld Ms Ds complaint about this. Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint 
about not changing her address, because shed failed a security question and so although it 
had caused Ms D some inconvenience, Nationwide said it had acted correctly.
Nationwide confirmed that it was arranging to transfer Ms Ds mortgage product onto a 
tracker product which had no early repayment charge (ERC). (Nationwide has since 
confirmed no fees were charged for this, nor any ERC or exit fee for closing the fixed-rate 
product.) Nationwide also offered compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset.
Ms D didnt think  Nationwide had done enough and so the complaint was brought to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at it.
He noted that Nationwide had accepted it had made an error in not letting Ms D know about 
the 1% interest loading before shed switched products. But he explained that its outside our 
remit to tell Nationwide what processes to have in place. 
The investigator was satisfied that the redress Nationwide had offered  transferring her onto 
a new product and £200 was fair. He explained that the new product allowed Ms D to move 
to a new lender without charge. Because her mortgage has less than ten years to run, there 
is no £65 exit fee payable should Ms D decide to take out a mortgage with another lender.
Ms D asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said the only point in 
issue is this: after taking out the new product in April 2020 and then discovering the interest 
rate loading, Ms D says that if shed decided to repay the mortgage immediately shed have 
been charged an ERC as she had more than ten years left on her mortgage. So she doesnt 
think its fair that the investigator looked at the mortgage terms after Nationwide had put her 
on the tracker, where no ERC is payable now because the term has reduced.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
The 1% interest: I agree with Ms D that Nationwide should have told her about the 1% 
loading if she rented out the property when she was switching to a new product. Although 
this is information which is prominently displayed on the section of Nationwides website that 
deals with letting out a property, it still should have been mentioned. Nationwide has 
accepted it should have mentioned this.
The address:  Im satisfied that, where Ms D didnt pass its security procedure, Nationwide 
acted correctly in not changing the address on file. 
The ERC: When Ms D took out the new product beginning in April 2020, it came with an 
ERC if it was repaid during the fixed-rate period. An ERC is a charged intended to reflect the 
cost to the lender where a product taken out for a fixed term is repaid before the end of that 
term. The mortgage offer will explain the duration the ERC will apply, and the amount 
payable, whether thats a fixed amount or a percentage of the amount repaid.
As part of the resolution to the complaint, Nationwide agreed to switch Ms D from the new 
fixed rate shed taken out onto a tracker product with no ERC. So although its correct that if 
Ms D had repaid the mortgage during the fixed-rate period shed have incurred an ERC, this isnt what happened. Ms D hasnt incurred any actual financial loss and so I cant 
compensate her for an ERC she hasnt paid.
The exit fee: I think Ms D has confused the ERC with the £65 exit fee in relation to this part 
of the complaint. 
The exit fee has nothing to do with the ERC. Where a mortgage has more than ten years left 
to run, an exit fee of £65 is charged by Nationwide when the mortgage is repaid  whether 
its during the period when the mortgage is subject to an ERC, whether the mortgage is 
outside the period when an ERC would apply or whether its on a product which has no 
ERC. The exit fee is to cover the administrative costs of closing the mortgage account and 
removing the charge from the title register at the Land Registry. 
But where the mortgage has less than ten years to run at the time its repaid, Nationwide 
waives this fee. So if Ms D had repaid her mortgage when it had more than ten years left on 
the term, Nationwide would have charged this administrative fee. As the mortgage has less 
than ten years left to run, the fee will not be charged. 
Ms D is putting forward a hypothetical situation, where she is questioning whether, if shed 
repaid the mortgage while her new product was still in its fixed rate and with more than ten 
years of the mortgage term left, shed have been charged the ERC and the £65 exit fee. 
But this didnt happen. Nationwide put things right by transferring Ms D onto a new product 
with no ERC, and the mortgage now has less than ten years left to run. I cant compensate 
Ms D for something that didnt happen, or reach my decision based on a hypothetical 
scenario, rather than what actually happened.
Other issues: Ms D has complained about the length of time Nationwide took to resolve her 
complaint. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity and its not within my remit to 
investigate how Nationwide dealt with the complaint. But Nationwides response to the 
complaint was within the timescale set by the regulator.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwides offer of compensation of £200  in addition to its transfer 
of Ms Ds mortgage onto a tracker product with no ERC and an apology  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. It is proportionate to the trouble and upset caused by 
the errors and the length of time taken to sort the matter out. It also puts Ms D back in the 
position shed have been in had she not taken out a new mortgage product. 
After taking into account everything that happened,  Im not ordering Nationwide to pay any 
further compensation or put any other redress in place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman