DRN-2622642
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr C had an income protection policy with Unum. In March 2019 he began suffering with 
stress owing to a problem at work. Mr C said he was being bullied by his manager which 
affected his ability to do his job. Mr C visited his GP and was signed off work. Mr C was later 
diagnosed with various additional health issues, including anxiety and so claimed on his 
policy with Unum. He would like Unum to accept his claim. 
Unum said it maintained its decision to decline the claim because there was insufficient 
medical evidence to show that Mr C was incapacitated throughout the whole of the 26-week 
deferred period. It noted that he hadnt visited his GP since March 2019. The deferred period 
ended in August that year. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She recognised that hed began suffering 
with additional health problems, but said she wasnt considering them as part of her 
investigation as they came after Mr Cs original date of absence. She also noted they were 
mostly not related to the initial reason he was off work. She did, however, consider the 
anxiety as part of this claim as it was closely linked to the stress Mr C experienced. But she 
was more persuaded that it stemmed from the work-related stress and that there was no 
cover available in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he said that we should consider the other health problems hes 
suffered, alongside his CBT reports. He understands theres not much in the way of medical 
evidence, however, he said that his treating specialist has declined to give any further 
information in answer to Unums declination. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I say this because I dont think 
Unum has made an error in declining his claim. Ill explain why. 
The medical evidence has consistently documented Mr Cs troubles at work. The notes from 
his counsellor and the GP all say that Mr Cs absence began because of his problems at 
work.  This was ultimately the reason he was signed off, because of the stress he was under 
and how these symptoms affected his ability to concentrate and do his job. Mr C was 
prescribed anti-depressant medication to try and help alleviate those symptoms and has 
continued to take them. The problem here is that Mr C said his symptoms have become 
worse and maintained that hes still too unwell to return to work. However, this isnt 
supported by any persuasive medical evidence, which is ultimately why Unum declined his 
claim.
Mr C says things didnt improve much between March and August 2019  but theres no 
medical evidence to support this as he didnt return to his GP for further assessment or 
support. I think it reasonable to expect that Mr C continue to reach out during that time to his 
GP for further support had his symptoms not improved  the same way he did when he 
needed a FIT note certificate. And so, because this didnt happen, Im not persuaded that 
hes been able to satisfy the policy terms around incapacity. 
The policy says that you would receive payment when youve become incapacitated and 
that youve been incapacitated during the whole deferral period. Incapacity is defined as 
being unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation 
This means Unum need to be satisfied that Mr C was incapacitated throughout the deferred 
period, between March and August 2019 and theres not enough medical evidence to 
support that. Further, Im satisfied that Mr Cs anxiety issues were borne from the work-
related stress. I should say that stress is not considered an illness, rather, its an acute 
reaction to life events. It can develop, if left untreated, into a more serious medical condition, 
which arguably could be the case here. But because Im persuaded this is still intrinsically 
linked to the work problems Mr C suffered, its not covered by the policy, as work-related 
issues do not fall within its scope. Also, I think its fair to acknowledge that had Mr Cs 
problems at work resolved, so too would his stress. 
I also thought it interesting that the specialist treating Mr C had declined to comment or 
respond to Unums declination. I understand Mr Cs argument that they dont get involved, 
but that doesnt necessarily reflect my experience with this type of claim. And so, without any 
persuasive medical evidence that successfully challenged Unums decision, I dont think it 
needs to do anything more in the circumstances. 
Mr Cs other health problems are not relevant for the purposes of my final decision as they 
developed post-deferral period, thats to say after August 2019, and Im satisfied they arent 
linked to Mr Cs initial cause of absence.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman