DRN-4321926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about delays when they made a mortgage application to Clydesdale 
Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money). They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A made an application to Virgin Money in May 2022. In September 2022 Virgin 
Money declined the application. Mr and Mrs A say this wasted four months of their time while 
interest rates were rising. Theyd like Virgin Money to compensate them for their additional 
interest costs, having taken out a mortgage with another lender.
Our investigator said Virgin Moneys decision not to lend was consistent with its lending 
criteria. He said while it caused a delay of eight days its offer of £100 compensation was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said if Virgin Money had criteria requiring two years continuous 
employment it should have picked this up at the outset, as their employment start dates were 
on the application form. He said they could have gone elsewhere in May 2022, before rates 
increased again. Mr A said Virgin Money hadnt provided documents and fobs him off when 
he calls to request his paperwork.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage lenders are required by rules on mortgage regulation to complete affordability 
checks before offering a mortgage. Lenders are entitled to make commercial judgements 
about their own risk appetites. Id expect Virgin Money to have policies in place about how 
affordability is assessed. For instance what types of income are acceptable, how different 
types of income are evidenced and the periods over which it needs to be demonstrated. 
Mr A says he doesnt dispute this. He says his complaint is about the time taken by Virgin 
Money to assess his application. 
Mr A says Virgin Moneys lending criteria must have changed during the delays, resulting in 
the application being declined. Otherwise, he says Virgin Money should have told them at 
the outset that they didnt meet its income criteria, so they could have gone elsewhere.  
Virgin Money issued a decision in principle (DIP) in May 2022. This wasnt a mortgage offer 
and the DIP makes this clear. It says it will accept an application from Mr and Mrs A. 
The DIP set out documents required to progress the application. Mr and Mrs As mortgage 
broker submitted an application on their behalf.
Virgin Money asked for further information and documents. Its not unusual for lenders to ask 
for further information and documents during an application, and this is something theyre 
entitled to do. Virgin Money asked for more information about Mr and Mrs As income in July 
and early August 2022.
I can understand Mr and Mrs As frustration about the time taken by Virgin Money to assess 
the application. Virgin Money provided its record of the information submitted with the 
application. Having reviewed this, I dont think I can fairly find that it should have known from 
the outset that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt meet its criteria. Virgin Money asked for further 
information to understand more about Mr and Mrs As income, before making a lending 
decision. I dont think that was unfair. The alternative would have been to decline the 
application without asking for further information which might have allowed it to offer the 
mortgage.
I do appreciate though that this meant the application process took longer than Mr and Mrs A 
would have expected. If Virgin Money had caused significant unnecessary delays, I might 
reach a different outcome. But I dont think that was the case. Virgin Money asked for 
additional information and documents, which it then had to review, and this inevitably added 
to the time taken for it to reach a decision. But, as I said, it is entitled to ask for more 
information and documents during the application process. Virgin Money said there was a 
short delay when documents werent transferred internally promptly. Other than that, having 
read through its notes, I dont think it caused any significant delays when reviewing 
documents or when asking for clarifications or further documents. 
Mr and Mrs As application was with Virgin Money for about four months before it was 
declined, and this was during a period of rising interest rates. I do understand Mr and 
Mrs As frustration that they didnt get an answer sooner, so they could apply elsewhere. Im 
pleased to hear they were offered a mortgage by another lender, albeit with a 3.5% interest 
rate rather than the 2.75% rate theyd hope to secure with Virgin Money. But for me to 
require Virgin Money to pay compensation for this, Id have to find that Mr and Mrs A missed 
out on a lower interest rate because Virgin Money caused unnecessary delays, and I dont 
think that was the case.
Mr A says hes unhappy with the way Virgin Money dealt with his complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt itself a regulated activity, so this isnt something I can consider here. If Mr A is 
concerned that Virgin Money hasnt provided information in accordance with the General 
Data Protection Regulation, he can consider contacting ICO. Mr A says hell take the matter 
to court. If Mr and Mrs A dont accept my decision, they will be able to take the matter to 
court, if they wish to do so.
Putting things right
Virgin Money offered £100 compensation for the upset caused by a short delay in it 
transferring information internally. I dont think the outcome here would have been different if 
there hadnt been this delay. In the circumstances, I think £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should pay £100 to Mr 
and Mrs A, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman