DRN-3234559
The complaint
Mr S says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to hm irresponsibly. 
He says he was pressured into renewing loans before the previous ones had ended. And he 
says the repayments were too high and the agent would alter the amounts on the application 
form to make the loans look affordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Mutual provided to Mr S between October 
2013 and April 2018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weekly)date ended
1 12/10/2013 £1,000 102 28/01/2015
2 29/01/2014 £1,500 102 18/05/2016
3 24/01/2015 £1,000 102 18/05/2016
4 21/05/2016 £700 102 11/04/2018
5 07/04/2018 £1,500 102 29/01/2020
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the information the busines had 
showed that the lending was affordable. And whilst, at some points, Mutual shouldve made 
better checks before lending to Mr S, he hadnt been able to provide any further information 
that showed he was in financial difficulties at the time. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He reiterated that he didnt think the 
information the busines had recorded at the time of sale was accurate. But he wasnt able to 
supply any further information to show this. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint and Ive explained why below. 
Mr S needed to repay between around £15 to £22 a week for all of these loans. The loans 
did overlap at times, but I havent seen any evidence of significant repayment problems. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr S provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr S said he had a weekly income of £350 at the start, this rose to £550 for loans 2 and 3 
and up to £800 for loan 4. His outgoings were recorded as being much lower than this at 
between £22 at the start and £211 at the end. As far as I can see Mr S changed employment 
during the lending which accounts for the higher income over time. 
Mr S has said that the Mutual agent recorded incorrect information on the application form in 
order to make the loans appear affordable for him. But I havent seen any further evidence 
that shows this. And Mr S hasnt said what the correct information should be. In addition, I 
havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mutual was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr S mightve been having. 
I dont disagree that Mutual should probably have taken steps to verify the information Mr S 
was providing, given the overall time he borrowed for and the term of these loans. 
Particularly towards the end of the lending relationship. But Mr S hasnt been able to provide 
any information such as bank statements or a credit file to show what Mutual may have seen 
if it had made better checks. So, I cant uphold his complaint on this basis. 
And there isnt anything else Ive seen that wouldve prompted Mutual to investigate Mr S 
circumstances further. Mr S does borrow for a long time but there is very little evidence of 
problems here other than that. And I dont think this is enough on its own, in this case. 
Given all of this, in these circumstances, I think Mutuals decisions to approve loans 1 to 5 
were reasonable and Im not upholding Mr S complaint about them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman