DRN-3990952
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Halifax Financial Services (Halifax) 
incorrectly applied charges to his policy.
What happened
Mr M took out an income drawdown policy with Halifax in 2002. Amongst other information, 
Halifax sent Mr M the key features and policy booklet relating to his policy. 
In June 2021, Halifax wrote to Mr M to explain the charges that applied to his policy. Those 
included fund charges of £2,685.36 for the period June 2020 to June 2021. Under a 
heading An explanation of your fund charges, Halifax described these as charges for 
managing Mr Ms plan and investments. It added that, as the charge is built into the fund 
price, it had provided an estimate as it couldnt precisely calculate the fund charges Mr M 
had paid. It added that within the fund charges it includes an estimate of how much it costs 
to buy and sell investments within each fund. It referred to these as transaction costs. 
The charges associated with Mr Ms policy increased the following year. This appears to 
have given him cause to question things - especially as he said hed received no prior 
warning that transaction charges would be applied. As far as Mr M was concerned, every 
year since the plan started, the only charge to be deducted was a 0.5% annual management 
charge (AMC). He queried things with Halifax. 
Halifax wrote to Mr M on 8 August 2022. It enclosed a breakdown of the estimated fund 
charges applicable to his plan, which it said may include:
AMC and any additional expenses.
Transaction costs
It explained that the increase in charges was due to an increase in the transaction costs 
associated with some of the funds that Mr M was invested in. It added that fund prices and 
their related charges and transaction costs fluctuate daily.  It referred Mr M to a separate 
guide about investing in unit-linked funds and said he could find details of other charges in 
his annual statement or the original plan documentation. It enclosed a breakdown of the 
estimated charges associated with each fund.
Mr M wrote to Halifax in response to its letter of 8 August 2022. He said he felt sure it had 
made a mistake when collecting transaction costs given that there was no mention of such 
costs in previous statements (hed gone over those statements again to make sure). He said 
the increase in costs was despite the fact that the total fund value had decreased due to 
market conditions. Mr M said he couldnt believe that a major financial company would not 
advise beforehand of any increase in costs. He added he wanted to make crystal clear 
that he objected to paying any charge over and above 0.5%.
Mr M raised a formal complaint with Halifax. It responded on 29 September 2022 and didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said its annual statements had a known defect in that they 
disclosed the 0.5% annual management charge but didnt mention additional charges. It said 
it was looking to amend this defect in future statements. It offered Mr M £100 compensation 
in respect of any confusion caused. However, it said it was satisfied that charges had been 
correctly applied in line with the terms of Mr Ms policy. It said it wasnt the case that the 
0.5% AMC was the only charge applicable, and that had never been the case. But it 
accepted that the statements sent to Mr M hadnt always made that clear. It gave a 
description of the charges as follows: 
AMC (at fund level)  applied by the fund manager of the underlying investments to 
cover the cost of managing the fund. The charge is built into the fund price and is 
therefore an estimate.
Transaction costs  in addition to the AMC, each fund incurred transaction costs 
when buying and selling assets. Those costs depended on how often the fund 
manager bought and sold assets; the types of assets and where the transactions 
take place. These reduce the value of the fund by increasing costs when buying 
assets and reduce the value received when selling assets  they can also include 
broker commissions and taxes.
Halifax pointed out that all funds contained transaction costs and this would have been 
detailed within the documentation Mr M received when the policy was sold to him. Therefore, 
it didnt agree that it should refund any charges in excess of the 0.5% AMC.
In a letter dated 11 October 2022, Mr M said he was surprised and disappointed by Halifaxs 
decision not to uphold his complaint, especially when the 0.5% AMC had been the accepted 
charge for many years. Mr M maintained that Halifax couldnt arbitrarily impose a charge to 
cover its transaction costs. Whilst it reviewed the additional comments Mr M made, Halifax 
said it was unable to change its decision concerning the charges on Mr Ms policy. It added 
that the way in which charges were displayed had recently changed, however fund charges 
additional to the 0.5% AMC had always been applicable. It gave Mr M an additional £50 
compensation in respect of the difficulties hed had contacting Halifax.  
Mr M complained to this Service. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. Noting 
Mr Ms point that the additional costs only became apparent in a 2022 statement, the 
Investigator said that a 2021 statement also mentioned transaction costs. She felt this 
showed the costs had previously been included and fund charges included the AMC and 
transaction costs. The Investigator was satisfied the wording had been made clearer in  
2022, but she didnt agree that meant the information was previously hidden or that the 
charges werent previously applied. Overall, the Investigator felt that the transaction costs 
could have been presented in a much clearer way. But she was satisfied that Halifax had 
improved that by showing the costs on the first page of a statement. She was also satisfied 
that Halifax had made a reasonable offer in paying Mr M £100 compensation for the 
confusion caused and an extra £50 compensation in respect of some other issues. However, 
she thought it would be helpful if Halifax provided Mr M with a more detailed breakdown of 
the transaction charges that applied in the previous five years. 
Mr M didnt agree with the Investigator.  He said it was possible the transaction costs were 
subsumed within the AMC  on the basis that it would cover work needed to analyse the 
market and make the required trades. But Mr M completely rejected the argument that 
Halifax had made clear what the charges stood for. He maintained that it had made an 
arbitrary extra charge for transaction costs that werent applied when the policy was first 
taken out. And he felt that statements hed provided dating back as early as 2005 showed 
that. The Investigator acknowledged Mr Ms frustration. But she felt that, as Halifax was able to 
say overall how much had been paid in charges, she didnt agree they could be described as 
hidden costs. She again said that the fund charges are a common feature of most pension 
plans. And they didnt form part of the AMC as they would be specific to each fund invested 
in. 
Mr M still didnt agree. He indicated that it was the difference in charges between a letter 
dated 30 June 2021 (which the Investigator had referred to) compared to another letter in 
2022 that had alerted him to a potential problem given the size of the increase. He was 
adamant he hadnt previously received such a letter. Those he had received only mentioned 
a 0.5% AMC. Mr M didnt agree Halifax had given him sufficient information and he felt it had 
been anything but transparent. The Investigator asked Halifax for more information.
After reviewing the further information Halifax provided, the Investigator sent Mr M an 
update, which included a copy of the original policy booklet associated with his plan. 
Concerning Mr Ms point that he hadnt been made aware of any other charges apart from 
the AMC, the Investigator referred him to Section 4 of the policy booklet which explained the 
various charges that might apply. Specifically, it said that fund adjustments would be made 
for other charges upon acquisition or realisation of any investment in the fundand for the 
management charges on the fund. The Investigator thought Mr M would have received and 
agreed to these terms when he took out the policy, so she didnt agree that charges were 
applied incorrectly. Nevertheless, given Mr Ms concerns, she felt that Halifax should still 
send him a more detailed breakdown of the charges. 
Mr M said it was incumbent on financial businesses to be crystal clear about charges. He 
asked the Investigator to refer his complaint to an Ombudsman given that Halifax had been 
found wanting in transparency. Therefore, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter is clear. I can appreciate that when presented 
with a statement showing transaction costs that hadnt been a feature for many years before 
that, hed assume that Halifax had applied these costs in error. 
Whereas Halifaxs position is that these costs had always applied, so the 0.5% AMC wasnt 
the only charge applicable. But it did accept that the statements sent to Mr M hadnt always 
made that clear. 
Clearly theres a conflict in the evidence. And the very fact that Halifax accepts it didnt 
include a breakdown of these costs (so they didnt feature in most of the statements sent to 
Mr M over the years) means there is limited evidence for me to go on. In a situation like this, 
I have to decide things on the balance of probability. That is, whether its more likely than not 
that transaction costs were a feature of Mr Ms policy  and therefore an appropriate charge 
even if Halifax didnt always clearly display them, as opposed to them being applied as a 
result of an error on Halifaxs part. I wont be commenting on the amount of charges applied, 
as I think thats a separate matter.
Ive looked at the original policy booklet that was sent to Mr M. Section 4 of that document 
says under the heading Adjustments; deductions; management charges, In calculating the 
value of a Fundthe Actuary will make due allowance for income received or accrued and 
for outgoings of whatever nature in respect of any of the investments of the Fundand for any actual prospective or other liability for taxation or any levy loan charge or cost 
considered by the Actuary to be relevant for any adjustment which may be linked to the 
Fund and for taxes duties and other charges upon acquisition or realisation of any 
investment of the Fund and for any expenses of managing maintaining and valuing property 
and for the management charges on the Fund which may be determined by the Actuary from 
time to time having regard to the companys costs.
I appreciate that this is a rather convoluted explanation. But, in simple terms, I think what it 
shows is that Halifax told Mr M it could apply a range of charges to his policy, both in terms 
of its management and in respect of the individual funds that Mr M was invested in. That also 
accords with my experience and understanding of the charging structure often associated 
with policies like Mr Ms. I fully appreciate though that with the passage of time, Mr M may 
not have remembered what was set out in a very detailed document sent to him many years 
before. 
But given the extracts Ive referred to above and my general understanding, I cant fairly say 
Halifax has applied the charges incorrectly as Mr Ms suggested. Neither can I direct it not to 
apply the transaction charges in future as Mr M might like, as this isnt something Mr M 
would ever have been entitled to. It seems more likely to me from the evidence available that 
the charges probably had always been applied. But they simply werent visible due to the 
structure of the statements that Halifax sent until at least 2021. The 2021 statement 
references different costs and includes a description of transaction costs in particular. I fully 
agree with Mr M that there was a lack of transparency before then in the way Halifax 
presented charging information. 
However, its not my role to punish Halifax for any shortcomings in how its presented 
information to a consumer. Halifax itself recognised that it needed to improve its charging 
information  and its since taken steps to address that. Instead, my role is to look into Mr 
Ms individual complaint in an impartial manner and put things right for him if necessary. 
Halifax itself recognised that Mr M would likely have been confused when the information 
about transaction costs became clearer. Whilst I accept that it probably came as a surprise 
to Mr M to learn about the transaction charges after such a long time, Im satisfied that any 
confusion he felt was probably fairly short-lived. I say that because, although the 2021 
statement does reference transaction costs, it seems Mr M didnt actually note the costs until 
2022 when making a comparison with the previous year. It was at that point that he raised 
queries with Halifax and it then explained the true position. It also paid Mr M £100 for the 
confusion and concern caused by not having told him sooner. I think thats reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive outlined, I can't fairly conclude that Halifax applied charges 
incorrectly. And I think the compensation Halifax has offered is reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this case. But since Halifax itself accepts it could have been clearer in the 
past, I do agree with our Investigator that its fair for Halifax to provide Mr M with a more 
detailed breakdown of the transaction charges. I dont think its proportionate for Halifax to 
provide a breakdown covering the life of the policy, but a period of say five years gives Mr M 
a reasonable snapshot to review. I note Halifax has previously told Mr M it wasnt always 
possible to give an exact figure for transaction costs due to the way in which theyre built into 
the fund. But Halifax doesnt appear to have told us that it cant provide Mr M with the kind of 
information the Investigator recommended. So, it should now provide this information to Mr 
M. And if Mr M then identifies additional concerns or anomalies on receipt of further 
information, this is something he should raise with Halifax directly in the first instance.My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited (trading as Halifax Financial Services) should provide Mr M with a 
more detailed breakdown of the transaction charges for the past five years, in a clear and 
simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman