DRN-2915579
The complaint
The estate of Mrs A is unhappy Scottish Widows Limited has declined its life insurance 
claim. 
The estate is being represented by Mr A (the late Mrs As husband). 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In July 2016 Mrs A took out a life insurance policy with Scottish Widows. 
When she applied for the policy, Mrs A answered No to the following questions;
Have you been asked to return to any doctor including your GP, for further investigation or
follow up, or are you currently waiting for the results of investigations?
In the last 5 years have you had any anaemia, blood disorder, gout or thyroid disorder
Sadly, in June 2018 Mrs A died. So, Mr A made a claim to Scottish Widows. 
Scottish Widows reviewed the claim but decided not to accept it. It said Mrs A shouldve 
made it aware of her sickle cell disease when she applied for the policy. And if she had, it 
wouldnt have offered her cover. 
Mr A was unhappy with this decision, so he brought the complaint to this service. He said his 
late wife wouldnt have hidden her sickle cell from the insurer as she had the condition from 
birth. He added that he found an amended application form within his late wifes documents 
which showed the answers had been changed. He says this document wouldve been 
returned to Scottish Widows. So, he feels his wife had made Scottish Widows aware of her 
medical condition and the claim should be paid. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied Mrs A 
hadnt answered all of Scottish Widows questions correctly. And that it didnt receive the 
amended application form Mr A says his wife returned because if it had, it wouldve more 
likely than not declined the application and contacted Mrs A. He added that Scottish Widows 
offer of £250 for the delays in reviewing the claim was fair. 
Mr A disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said his wife made 
Scottish Widows aware of the sickle cell condition on the phone and Scottish Widows said 
they would contact the GP for further information. And an application was checked and 
returned to Scottish Widows by the late Mrs A. He feels Scottish Widows has been dishonest 
and should accept the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mr A. Id like to assure him I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at 
and considered all the evidence he and Scottish Widows have provided to this service  and 
Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mrs A misrepresented her medical history 
when taking out this policy. And if so, Scottish Widows needs to show it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mrs As medical history?
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made 
Scottish widows aware of Mrs As medical history when applying for the policy. Having done 
so, I dont think a reasonable person wouldve forgotten about the sickle cell when 
completing the application and considering the questions Scottish Widows asked. 
I understand Mr A has said his wife made Scottish Widows aware of the sickle cell during the 
sales call and then amended the application form when it was received. Unfortunately, 
Scottish Widows no longer has a copy of the call available. And it says it didnt receive an 
amended application from Mrs A. So, Ive considered what is most likely to have happened 
when the policy was taken out. 
During the sales call Mrs A was asked a number of questions about her health. 
Scottish Widows has said it recorded the answers it was given and sent these to Mrs A so 
they could be checked. Im satisfied a copy of the application was received by Mrs A 
because Mr A found a copy of this which had been amended with notes about Mrs As sickle 
cell.
I cant know for sure why all the medical answers were answered No during the sales call. 
But the checking of the application and asking Mrs A to check her answers forms part of the 
sales process. And its clear the answers Scottish Widows received initially from the sales 
call were incorrect because of the amendments that were made later by Mrs A. Mr A says his wife wouldve sent the amended form, or a copy of it, to Scottish Widows at 
the time of the sale. But Scottish Widows has said it didnt receive that form back. Ive 
thought about this carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied its more likely than not the form 
wasnt sent back to Scottish Widows. If the form had been sent and received, then Im 
satisfied it wouldve been reviewed, and the changes in Mrs As medical history considered 
further. This wouldve meant further communication between Scottish Widows and Mrs A at 
the time. 
So, because Im satisfied  on balance - the form wasnt sent back to Scottish Widows, I 
believe Mrs A did make a misrepresentation here. 
What would Scottish widows have done differently? 
Scottish Widows has treated this misrepresentation as careless and applied such a remedy 
under CIDRA, which is to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. Im not satisfied Mrs A 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to 
categorise her actions as careless here. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has 
made a careless misrepresentation, Scottish Widows can take whatever action it wouldve 
taken if the correct answers had been given at the point of application. 
Based on what we know about Mrs As medical history, Scottish Widows has provided its 
underwriting criteria and a statement from its underwriter which shows if it was made aware 
of this, it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mrs A. So, I cant fairly ask Scottish Widows to 
accept the claim. 
The handling of the claim
I can understand why Mr A was frustrated by the length of time the claim took to be resolved. 
So, Ive reviewed the timeline of the claim. I note the claim was submitted in 2018 and an 
answer wasnt given until March 2020. Complicated claims such this can take some time to 
review and process due to various bits of information needing to be requested from different 
medical professionals. I note in this case there were delays in waiting for the medical 
information from some of the medical professionals. And Scottish Widows offered £250 for 
the three month delay it caused when requesting further medical information. 
Considering this service does expect some complicated claims to sometimes take up to a 
year to review, I still expect an insurer to review information and chase this promptly. Having 
reviewed the timeline, Im satisfied the offer of £250 is fair and in line with what Id expect in 
similar cases. 
I know my decision leaves Mr A in a difficult position. Im sorry to disappoint him, but overall, 
I dont think hes been treated unfairly. So, Im not going to ask Scottish Widows to take any 
further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman