DRN-1444634
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Personal Finance) only refunded 
a deposit and not the whole purchase price of a failed transaction when he made a claim to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Section 75 only allows Mr P to recover the money he has paid. It doesnt allow him to 
recover the money he may have paid. It would be unreasonable to ask Tesco Personal 
Finance to repay the money that may have been paid as well as refunding the deposit. They 
could not hope to recover that money by suing the merchant.
So, I dont think Tesco Personal Finance should repay the full purchase price. They only 
need to refund the deposit and thats something theyve already agreed to do.
Whilst I understand that Mr P hasnt received that money yet, I think thats because he hasnt 
accepted it and has chosen to pursue a claim for the full amount. I therefore dont think it 
would be fair to tell Tesco Personal Finance to pay interest on the sum due. 
Im also not persuaded that Tesco Personal Finance delayed matters unnecessarily. They 
were right to consider a chargeback claim, although I understand this was not possible as 
the card scheme time limits had been exceeded. And when the claim was then referred to 
the section 75 team that team would have wanted to obtain the relevant evidence to support 
the claim. Im not persuaded that there were any significant delays for which the business 
should compensate Mr P and overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask Tesco Personal 
Finance to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman