DRN-4511407
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly 
required loan repayments on the wrong dates. W says this resulted in the bank putting its 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) into default and registering Cifas and late payment markers 
against it. 
W is represented by one of its directors, who Ill call Mr A. 
What happened
HSBC said:
In May 2020, W opened a current account with HSBC and successfully applied for a 
£50,000 BBL. 
On 4 June 2020, they briefly placed a restriction on Ws current account. 
On 5 June 2020, they removed the restriction. The proceeds of the BBL were 
transferred to Ws current account and the same day, W transferred the BBL funds to 
an account in Mr As name at another bank. 
In May 2021, W successfully applied for a six month Pay As You Grow repayment 
holiday and a term extension. 
In November 2021, W completed a form to close its current account. HSBC declined 
to comply with this request until W set up an alternative means to make its loan 
repayments. 
In December 2021, they wrote to say that Ws six month repayment holiday was 
about to end and the first repayment on the loan would be due on 5 January 2022. 
In January and February 2022, they sent letters about missed BBL repayments. They 
also sent another letter about the need for a payment vehicle for the loan. 
On 24 February 2022, after a phone conversation with Mr A, they sent him a new 
direct debit mandate. This was never returned. 
In 9 April 2022, another form was submitted to close Ws current account and they 
sent another letter saying W needed another means to repay the loan first. 
On 5 August 2022, they issued a notice of default, because they became aware of a 
petition for Ws dissolution. They gave W until 26 August 2022 to sort out the issue. 
On 10 August 2022, they wrote to tell W that they no longer wished to provide it with 
any banking or credit facilities. They said its accounts had been suspended and 
would be closed. 
On 30 August 2022, they wrote to say they were exercising their cancellation rights 
under the loan agreement. The full amount was therefore immediately payable. They 
also put a Cifas marker on the national fraud database against Mr As name for 
evasion of payment. 
Mr A told us:
He hadnt had access to the BBL proceeds until November 2020, so he considered 
this to be the drawdown date. 
He had written to the bank on at least six occasions and also had numerous 
telephone calls with them and raised complaints between December 2020 and 
February 2022 to try and resolve what he considered to be HSBCs error with the 
repayment dates.  
HSBCs Collections team had made calls to him, but couldnt arrange a direct debit 
for him to repay. 
He had never tried to evade payment and remained willing to repay, although W was 
in trading difficulties. 
The problem at Companies House had been resolved and W was still trading. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think that the bank acted 
fairly as she considered that Mr A had made attempts to pay. She recommended that HSBC 
remove the Cifas marker, reconstruct the loan and pay £200 for the inconvenience caused to 
W. 
HSBC didnt accept our investigators recommendation, although they later told us they had 
decided to remove the Cifas marker. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2023. I didnt recommend the bank take any 
further action. In summary, I said:
I am aware that Mr A has more than one business. However, in Ws case, Id seen 
evidence from the bank statements that there was no delay in drawdown. 
It followed that I saw no reason why repayments should not have begun 13 months 
after the drawdown date of 5 June 2020, as set out in the BBL agreement.  
W successfully applied for a PAYG repayment holiday before these repayments were 
due to begin, thereby postponing any repayments by a further six months. I could see 
that HSBC then wrote to W in December 2021 to say that repayments were about to 
start. I think that was correct and could see no errors in HSBCs actions in respect of 
Ws repayment dates.  
I thought that HSBCs letters of January, February and May 2022 regarding BBL 
arrears were correct, as I thought that repayments were due throughout that period 
and that W did not pay them. Indeed, W has never made a loan repayment. Late 
payment markers on Ws credit record over that period would therefore also be 
accurate. Failure to pay an amount due is an event of default under Ws BBL agreement. So 
the bank could have declared an event of default at any point after January 2022. 
However, the default notice HSBC sent to W on 5 August 2022 referred to a notice 
for compulsory strike-off instead. 
Companies Houses record shows that a Notice for compulsory strike-off of P was 
made on 31 May 2022. There had also been an earlier application in August 2021. 
Ws BBL agreement listed notices of intended dissolution as an event of default. So I 
thought the bank acted reasonably, and in accordance with the agreement, when 
they issued a notice of an event of default. 
The bank followed the procedure set out in the BBL agreement when they wrote 
giving W until 26 August 2022 to rectify the strike-off notice. Id seen no evidence that 
Mr A attempted to contact the bank about this and the striking off action was not 
discontinued until 8 November 2022. 
I therefore thought the bank hadnt done anything wrong when they declared an 
event of default and issued a formal demand for the full balance. 
Mr A had provided extensive evidence of emails he sent to the bank seeking to clarify 
the repayment dates over a prolonged period. These emails mentioned the name of 
W as well as another company. However, in the case of W, as Ive explained above, 
there was no delay in drawdown and I think the banks letters were clear as to when 
repayments would start. So I dont think his emails were applicable to Ws situation, 
only to the other company. 
Mr A also provided recordings of some calls with the bank, which show him being 
passed between departments, with no-one able to take any payment for the loans. 
On at least one occasion, in January 2022, he is told that the bank couldnt take any 
payments from him while there was a complaint outstanding. W isnt explicitly 
mentioned in these calls.
Overall, I thought the evidence showed that HSBC failed to assist Mr A on the 
telephone calls Ive heard and they also failed to respond to his emails, even to 
confirm they werent relevant to W. I consider that this failure amounted to very poor 
service on the part of the bank. 
On the other hand, Id also seen evidence from the bank that Mr A submitted at least 
two applications to close Ws current account. In response, the bank explained to him 
on at least four occasions (three by letter) that he couldnt do this unless he provided 
an alternative means to repay the BBL, such as a direct debit from an account at 
another bank. Direct debit mandates were enclosed with their letters. So I think it 
would have been evident to Mr A that it was possible to repay Ws BBL by other 
means if he so chose. 
The complainant is a limited company. Limited companies cannot be distressed and I 
have no power to make an award for distress suffered by directors. 
I wasnt persuaded that W was actively trading during this period, so I didnt think it 
had been inconvenienced by the banks poor service. My intention was therefore not 
to make an inconvenience award. But I was happy to reconsider this if any evidence 
of inconvenience was provided. 
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence or arguments from either party, I 
havent changed my provisional view. 
In my provisional decision, I invited Mr A to provide evidence of any inconvenience 
experienced by W as a result of the banks poor service. No evidence has been provided, so 
I still dont intend to make any award for inconvenience as Im not persuaded there was any. 
My findings remain that, whilst HSBCs standard of service was poor, Ive seen no evidence 
that W suffered a loss or inconvenience as a result. I consider the bank was entitled to 
declare an event of default and then to make formal demand and take recovery action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt need to take any action to resolve this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman