DRN-3340745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about problems with bank cards issued by  Bank of Ireland (UK) plc 
trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post Office). They would like to be issued with 
cards that work.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Both Mr and Mrs C have had to have bank cards reissued as they didnt work  in 
Mrs Cs case this has happened more than once. Post Office says  Mrs C could 
access funds using her husbands card. Thats true  but  I think both should be able 
to access the account independently not be reliant on using each others cards.
Post Office has explained it may be that the cards werent activated which is why 
they didnt work. But it has also said there have been technical  issues with some 
cards. Given Mr and Mrs C both had cards that initially worked activation cant have 
been the initial issue.  And as Mr and Mrs C must have activated their first cards they 
would have been aware of that process. If later cards werent activated or not 
activated correctly, I cant see that Post Officed  actively advised of this in response 
to their many letters and phone calls 
Post Office has said that the savings account Mr and Mrs C had was not designed for 
regular withdrawals. That may be the case, but it does allow for withdrawals of up to 
£1000. And I havent seen any evidence that their cards didnt work as they had 
reached their withdrawal limit or that if that was the case that Post Office advised 
them of this. 
Post Office has also said that Mr and Mrs C havent suffered financially and there 
were other ways to access their funds . Mr and Mrs C made it clear on their 
complaint form they hadnt suffered financially.  They didnt seek financial 
compensation just cards that worked . As I  understand they have now closed their 
accounts this redress is no longer relevant.
Post Office has apologized and paid £60 compensation. it offered a further £100 but 
our investigator felt a further £190 giving a total of £250 was fair. I have carefully 
considered points Post Office has made about no financial loss and other ways to 
access the funds. I think a total compensation of £250 is reasonable -  there were 
problems with several cards not just one, this went on for some considerable time 
with the same problem occurring causing ongoing inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I  uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement   Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
should pay Mr and Mr C £190 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman