DRN-3211718
The complaint
Mr N complained that Lloyds Bank plc:
- re-debited temporary credits after not upholding his claim about disputed 
transactions; and
- didnt provide good service when he was making his complaint.
What happened
On 24 July 2018, Mr N contacted Lloyds to dispute multiple debits on his account, going 
back for some time. Lloyds gave him a temporary refund while it investigated. It explained 
that it would contact the merchants involved in the transactions, and if the results of the 
investigation didnt agree with Mr Ns claim, these temporary refunds would be re-debited. 
The different merchants involved provided evidence which showed Lloyds that the 
transactions had been genuine. So Lloyds wrote to Mr N on 15 August, 16 August and 20 
August as each of these merchants provided their evidence. Lloyds letters told Mr N that his 
account would be re-debited with the temporary credits within 10 working days, unless he 
got in touch with more information within that timescale. Mr N didnt respond to the letters to 
dispute these further, and the removal of the previous temporary credits went through.
On 4 January 2020, Mr N rang Lloyds to complain. Hed said hed received the three  August 
2018 letters and wanted to dispute them. He wanted to know the evidence which had made 
Lloyds say hed carried out the transactions himself. The adviser looked at what information 
he could see, and said the merchants had shown that the transactions matched Mr Ns 
name, billing and shipping address. He also gave an example where the merchant had 
shown the debit had been for a gift card which had been emailed to Mr Ns email address. 
Mr N asked to complain, and the call, which had been over an hour, was cut off during that 
process. He tried to complain online but couldnt do so because of a technical problem. He 
rang again to complain. This call too was over an hour, and it ended before Mr N had been 
put through to the right department. But the adviser sent Mr N a text message with the 
reference number for his complaint.
In Lloyds final response to Mr Ns complaint on 17 January, it said that:
- because of the length of time since the payments had been disputed in 2018, it no 
longer had the evidence which the merchant had provided;
- it recognised that the calls had been long, but didnt think theyd been excessively so 
as the adviser had been exploring possible ways to help Mr N.
So Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said that when Mr N had disputed the 
transactions in 2018, Lloyds had followed its procedures and had informed Mr N of the 
outcome. He said that in line with Mr Ns responsibilities for managing his account, hed have 
been aware that the temporary refunds had been re-debited. And hed have been aware of 
how to contact Lloyds for more information  but it had been well over a year before Mr N 
had got in touch with Lloyds again.
The investigator also considered the service when Mr N called Lloyds in 2020. He said he 
appreciated the frustration, but could see that the complaint had been raised the same day, 
within hours of Mr Ns first contact. So there hadnt been any significant delay or failure to 
raise Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds re-debiting of the temporary credits in 2018
Ive seen Mr Ns bank statements, which show that Lloyds initially gave temporary credits for 
the transactions he disputed. Ive also seen the credits, which link to these previous credits. 
When a bank issues a temporary credit when a customer disputes a transaction, its normal 
for them to investigate. If the investigation isnt upheld in the customers favour, the bank will 
then re-debit these temporary credits. Thats what happened here, and I accept that Lloyds 
told Mr N about this process. 
Lloyds sent Mr N three letters in August 2018, as the various merchants all provided 
evidence that the debits had been made using Mr Ns correct details. As it was around 18 
months between the original debits in July 2018 and Mr N raising his complaint in January 
2020, I find its reasonable that Lloyds would no longer have had the full detail of those 
merchants responses.  
I recognise that Mr N isnt happy that he wasnt provided with the full details of the 
merchants responses in January 2020. But its clear that Mr N did receive the three letters 
which Lloyds sent him in August 2018  because Ive listened to the call recording of Mr Ns 
complaint call in January 2020, when he said hed had them and referred to what they said. 
These letters had told Mr N that the merchants had provided evidence that the transactions 
had been genuine, so the temporary credits would be re-debited. The letters had also said 
that if he disagreed he should get back in touch with Lloyds within the next 10 days. He 
didnt do so.
Mr N was also receiving statements, which showed the temporary credits and the re-debits. 
So I find that he knew about the re-debits, and that if he wanted to dispute them further, hed 
have to do so within 10 days of the letters.
So I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about the re-debiting of the temporary credits, or that 
Lloyds no longer had full details of the merchants responses 18 months later.
Service issues when Mr N made his complaint in 2020
Its always frustrating when making long calls, especially being put on hold for long periods, 
or when computer systems arent working. Both the calls which Mr N made on 4 January 
2020 were over an hour. But calls about disputed transactions and possible fraud against an 
account can take a long time, especially when a customer may be in a queue for another 
department. And here, there were three letters to Mr N, and multiple transactions, which had 
happened a long time ago. Mr N queried why he didnt get a call back after the call 
disconnected, but the complaint team did send Mr N the complaint reference number by text, all within a couple of hours from when he first got in touch. It also issued its final response to 
his complaint well within the complaint timescales.
Although I understand Mr Ns frustration, and the phone delays werent ideal, I cant say that 
I think that the problems affected either the progress or the outcome of his complaint. 
Unfortunately, we all suffer some inconvenience in our daily lives, and a certain amount of 
frustration is inevitable. For this service to make an award of compensation, wed need to 
find that the impact of the banks mistake was more than what wed expect to encounter in 
normal daily life. Thats not the case here, and I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman