DRN-4109487
The complaint
Mr R complains (in brief summary) that AJ Bell Securities Limited (AJB):
failed to carry out his instructions in a timely way in line with guidelines issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
he feels it is unreasonable that AJBs service level agreement with customers says 
AJB has up to ten days to complete a transaction that Mr R says could and should 
have been promptly executed, bearing in mind that AJB held the necessary funds for 
immediate execution
he says AJB should not be allowed to impose on customers its own timescales for 
trades in readily marketable securities.
To put things right, Mr R would like the Financial Ombudsman Service to support his 
complaint and engage with AJB and the FCA to ensure that customers are treated fairly.
What happened
On 18 January 2023, Mr R requested AJB to sell a share in his dealing account and buy the 
same share in his ISA account. This is called a Bed & ISA. 
The transaction completed the next day, by which time the share price had moved. 
Mr R told AJB he was unhappy that the transaction hadnt been processed in a timely 
manner and completed the same day. 
AJB didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In summary it said that its Bed & ISA process 
was outlined on its website and stated that AJB had ten working days to complete a request. 
So it was reasonable that the transaction had been completed one working day after 
receiving Mr Rs request. AJB also pointed out that Mr R had received a better price on the 
purchase than he did on the sale, and so he hadnt suffered any financial detriment.
Mr R remained unhappy with the response, so he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt agree that 
AJB had been responsible for any wrong-doing or that hed seen evidence of any financial 
loss, saying:
AJB's operational procedures and processes were matters for the FCA and this 
service couldnt enforce business change 
AJB's service level agreement allowed up to ten working days to complete a Bed & 
ISA request
this was AJBs business decision to make and not something we could interfere with
the order was completed the day after it was placed.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his complaint. He has provided detailed responses which I briefly summarise 
here:
self-imposed timelines, such as those suggested by AJB do not fall within the 
realm of customer acceptance on terms and conditionsas to all intents and 
purposes they should not exist and in any event appear contrary to FCA guidelines 
on timely execution...
these timelines have no merit and should be removed from all customer facing 
literature, since deadlines tend to become the norm and because any price 
movements upwards through delay are likely to prove unreasonable as customers 
can only fund ISAs by a fixed amount
Mr R is not aware of any other FCA regulated firm adopting such methodology for 
Bed and ISA trades. His own long experience is that such trades are conducted 
immediately on customer instruction
the only reasons for delay by AJB are lack of staff or insufficient staff training to 
conduct trades, which should not be customer issues.
Mr R says the following points havent been addressed:
a customer could not instruct AJB on a Bed and ISA trade without sufficient cash 
being held in the ISA to enable the purchase to be completed so its up to the 
customer to determine sufficient cash availability as well as the anticipated dealing 
prices in advance of giving instructions. Any delay, particularly a price movement 
upwards, would disadvantage the customer and could have the potential to thwart 
the trade due to insufficient funds being available  and longer delay would elongate 
such risk 
a customer should have a valid expectation that telephone instructions given to AJB 
to deal should be actioned on a timely basis, to all intents and purposes almost 
immediately, as is the case when customers execute business themselves 
electronically
we havent enquired into AJB's normal action and speed of dealing on receipt of 
client telephone instructions. 
Mr R sums up by saying that AJB has no reason within FCA guidelines either to 
delay any trade or to impose on customers, or seek as a defence, what are in effect 
"self formulated timescales for trades in readily marketable securities.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
I appreciate how strongly Mr R feels about this complaint. Hes provided comprehensive 
submissions to support his view and whilst Ive only summarised some of his main concerns, 
Id like to assure him that Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said. I've also 
carefully listened to what hes said on the phone. 
Mr R thinks that, because he didnt lose out in money terms, his complaint hasnt received 
the attention it deserves. Mr R told us that his complaint is: not about what is reasonable 
for a business such as A J Bell He has also said the complaint is about the interpretation 
and application of FCA guidelines and its his view that the only viable way to enforce 
change is through the complaints process. So perhaps its helpful for me to start by 
explaining what this service can do.  
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate. I do not have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For 
these reasons I wont be responding to Mr Rs concerns about AJB's business process or his 
comments about the way the FCA should carry out its regulatory role or enforce compliance 
with industry standards as this goes beyond my remit.
In order to uphold Mr Rs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that AJB has done 
something wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable, so thats the approach 
I've taken. 
Thinking first about AJB's stocks and shares ISA Terms and Conditions, Mr R agreed to 
these when he applied to subscribe. The ISA declaration he agreed to said I confirm that 
I have been recommended to read and given the opportunity to read, ensure I understand 
and keep copies of the ISA key features, charges and rates and terms and conditions. I 
agree to be bound by the ISA terms and conditions as may be amended from time to time.
The ten day timeframe for executing the Bed & ISA trade Mr R requested AJB to carry out is 
explained as follows on AJB's website:
Once you have submitted your request, we will place the Bed and ISA transaction 
within 10 working days, and you will receive two contract notes confirming the 
orders.  You will only be able to buy investments in your ISA up to the value of your 
unused ISA allowance for this tax year.
The investigator mentioned that hed checked and this information hadnt changed since 
Mr R opened his account.I find that:
the material information Mr R needed to know was set out in a way that was broadly 
clear, fair, and not misleading, 
Mr R had accepted AJBs terms and conditions (and he wouldve always needed to 
do that in order to be able to execute this trade)
AJB completed the trade well within its ten day Bed & ISA timescale.
So I cant fairly say that AJB made an error by not following its published procedures or 
acting other than in accordance with its business process.  
This doesnt automatically mean AJB treated Mr R in a way that was fair and reasonable and 
Ive thought carefully about this. I appreciate that Mr R is looking at the bigger picture. He 
has said all along that he didnt lose out financially here  his primary concern, as 
I understand it, is that the ten day timescale for executing this type of trade exposes 
customers unnecessarily to avoidable risk. And I can understand Mr Rs general point that a 
trade shouldnt be delayed unreasonably. But Im mindful that AJB completed his particular 
request the next working day  and I dont consider that to be an unreasonable timescale for 
this sort of transaction. 
The fact alone that other financial businesses may operate differently isnt a good enough 
reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
All in all, I havent seen enough to show that AJB did anything wrong or that it treated Mr R 
in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So I cant uphold this complaint. 
Mr R has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already and I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main 
points that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how I've reached my conclusions 
and even though this isnt the outcome Mr R hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
10 January 2024.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman