DRN-2602754
The complaint
Mrs B complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt agree to a mortgage 
payment deferral (payment holiday) that she thought she was entitled to under Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance.
Mrs Bs complaint has been brought to us on her behalf by her husband, Mr B. As most of 
our dealings have been with Mr B, Ill mainly refer to him below.
What happened
Mr B contacted Halifax in March 2020. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, his and Mrs Bs 
income had reduced. They wanted to take a three month payment holiday on Mrs Bs 
mortgage under recently released FCA guidance. This guidance had been issued following 
the restrictions caused by the UK wide lockdown, which was in response to the coronavirus 
pandemic. The guidance aimed to make it easy for customers to request a pause on making 
their monthly mortgage payments, initially for up to three months, and it wouldnt be recorded 
on a credit file as missed payments. 
Halifax wasnt willing to agree to a payment holiday for Mrs B. It said that it wouldnt offer a 
payment holiday if customers had more than six months worth of arrears on their mortgage, 
which Mrs B did. But it said it would instead agree to a nil payment arrangement. Halifax has 
explained that a nil payment arrangement meant that any collections activity, such as phone 
calls, would be put on hold. And that, unlike a payment holiday, once the nil payment 
arrangement was over, Halifax wouldnt recalculate the mortgage payments to ensure the 
missed payments were repaid. This would have the benefit of not increasing Mrs Bs 
mortgage payments when the arrangement expired. Halifax said that, unlike a payment 
holiday, the nil payment arrangement would be reported on their credit file. But it added that, 
due to the level of arrears on their account, it thought this would have a relatively low impact. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with this. She wanted to consolidate her arrears into the balance of the 
mortgage so that she could choose a new, and lower, mortgage rate. She knew that she 
needed to make 12 consecutive months of payments before Halifax would consider this. And 
she thought that by not allowing her a payment holiday, the 12 months of consecutive 
payments she needed to make would restart, meaning it would be much later when she 
would be allowed to consolidate her arrears and benefit from a new mortgage rate.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Halifax shouldve agreed to 
the payment holiday in March 2020 under the FCA guidance. However, he also noted that 
due to tougher restrictions now in place in the UK, Mrs B would now like to take advantage 
of the payment holiday at this time rather than apply it retrospectively. So, he thought the 
best way to resolve this was for Halifax to now grant Mrs B a three month payment holiday 
now with a view to reviewing things again once that expired.
Mr B said that he would accept this with the option of a further three month payment holiday 
(the maximum allowed under the FCA guidance) at the end of the first if Mrs B required it. 
Halifax didnt agree. It said FCA guidance meant it was entitled to decline the payment 
holiday if it wasnt in Mrs Bs best interests. It said it had reviewed Mrs Bs request for a 
payment holiday but thought this would be detrimental to her account. It also said that a 
payment holiday wouldve automatically increased the monthly payment once it finished, and 
there wasnt evidence Mrs B could afford this. So, it didnt think a payment holiday was right 
for her in the circumstances. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key dispute here is whether, under the FCA guidance, Halifax was entitled to decline a 
payment holiday for Mrs B. And whether the nil payment arrangement rather than a payment 
holiday was a better option for her.
Mr B first contacted Halifax in regards to financial difficulty due to the coronavirus pandemic 
on 24 March 2020. He explained that Mrs B had just been made redundant and family 
members who lived with them, and contributed to the mortgage, had also been financially 
affected. 
The FCA released its first guidance in relation to payment holidays a few days before this on 
20 March 2020. This guidance said:
Where a customer indicates they may potentially experience payment difficulties in the 
current circumstances and wish to receive a payment holiday, a firm should grant a 
customer a payment holiday for the three monthly payments that follow that interaction.
If, during an interaction between the firm and the customer, the customer provides 
information suggesting that the customer may potentially experience payment difficulties, the 
firm should ask whether the customer would be interested in a payment holiday. 
To be clear, there is no expectation under this guidance that the firm investigates the 
circumstances surrounding a request for a payment holiday. 
Ive seen the contact notes from the first call Mr B had with Halifax. Its clear he was making 
Halifax aware that Mrs B was going to struggle to pay the mortgage. But I cant see that 
Halifax mentioned the option of a payment holiday or discussed this with him at this time. So, 
its clear to me Halifax didnt follow the FCA guidance.
Mr B called Halifax again on 31 March 2020, this time specifically asking for a payment 
holiday. At this time, he was told he wasnt eligible for a payment holiday due to the arrears 
on the account. But he was offered a nil payment arrangement instead. At this point, the 
FCA guidance had been reworded in places, although the overall principles remained largely 
the same. The part I consider is key here says:
Where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a payment holiday for three monthly payments unless it can 
demonstrate it is reasonable and, in the customers, best interests to not do so. 
Halifax now says it didnt think a payment holiday was in Mrs Bs best interests. But Im not 
persuaded it actually considered this at the time Mr B requested it. I think it is now making 
this argument retrospectively. Looking at the contact notes, I dont think that Mrs Bs specific circumstances were considered by Halifax to decide whether the nil payment arrangement 
was in Mrs Bs best interests or a better option than a payment holiday. Its clear that Halifax 
had a blanket policy which meant that, due to the arrears on the mortgage, Mrs B simply 
wasnt entitled to a payment holiday and this is the reason Mr Bs request was declined. 
The FCA guidance at the time said in relation to customers in arrears:
This guidance applies in respect of a customer regardless of whether they are in a payment 
shortfall. Where a firm is already taking or has taken steps under MCOB 13 in relation to the 
customer, the firm should consider whether further complementary measures to help the 
customer are appropriate in light of this guidance. Customers in payment shortfall should not 
receive less favourable treatment than other customers. Firms are reminded that MCOB 13 
includes provisions about the capitalisation of payment shortfalls, including that a firm must 
not capitalise a payment shortfall where the impact would be material.
This section of the guidance is important for a number of reasons. Firstly, it explains that a 
customer should still be entitled to a payment holiday if they are in arrears  something 
Halifax wasnt allowing to customers in more than six months of arrears. And this also meant 
that customers in arrears were being treated less favourably, again going against this 
guidance.
However, the key point of this guidance in relation to this particular complaint is the part 
which addresses what should happen at the end of the payment holiday. Halifax says that a 
nil payment arrangement was in Mrs B best interest because it meant the missed payments 
wouldnt automatically be capitalised and if a payment holiday was granted the missed 
payments would be capitalised and mean that Mrs Bs monthly payments would increase. 
But the final line of the above guidance specifically states that a lender shouldnt capitalise a 
missed payment from a payment holiday if the impact would be material. And I see no 
reason why Halifax couldnt have treated the payment holiday in the same way it had treated 
her arrears previously, other than it not being its usual policy.
Based on this, it seems the only difference there shouldve been between a nil payment 
arrangement and a payment holiday, in Mrs Bs case, was that one would be reported on her 
credit file and one wouldnt. Whilst I accept this mayve had a minimal impact due to the level 
of arrears already on the account, it certainly wasnt in her best interests to add further 
arrears to it.  
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Halifax has demonstrated that a nil payment 
arrangement was in Mrs Bs best interest. And I think it shouldve granted her a payment 
holiday for three months when Mr B requested it on her behalf. It also seems to me that as 
Mrs Bs situation didnt improve much throughout the year, its likely a second payment 
holiday shouldve been agreed had Mrs B been given the opportunity to apply for one. I say 
this as updated guidance from the FCA allowed for an additional three month payment 
holiday. And Im not persuaded, for the same reasons as above, that Halifax wouldve been 
able to demonstrate that it wouldnt have been in Mrs Bs best interests.
For completeness, Ill explain that I havent considered any impact this may or may not have 
on Mrs Bs ability to consolidate her arrears and take a new mortgage product, as she hasnt 
yet discussed this with Halifax. Once she does discuss this, if she is unhappy with any 
response she gets and considers Halifax has treated her unfairly, she may be able to refer 
this to us as a new complaint.  
Putting things right
Halifax shouldve granted the payment holiday when requested in March, and then fairly reassessed any further request after the three months had expired in light of the new 
guidance. Obviously, things have moved on since then. And I dont think the right thing 
would be for me to tell Halifax to retrospectively offer the payment holiday in these particular 
circumstances. 
Mrs B has told us that she is still having difficulties due to the coronavirus pandemic and 
would benefit from a payment holiday now. The FCA rules allow for a maximum of six 
months of payment holidays. Currently Mrs B has only had nil payment arrangements, but 
no payment holidays agreed. I think, in the circumstances, it would be fair for Halifax to grant 
Mrs B a three month payment holiday from acceptance of my decision. Following the expiry 
of this payment holiday, if Mrs B thinks she would benefit from another payment holiday of, 
she should contact Halifax and it should review whether a payment holiday will be in Mrs Bs 
best interest, taking into account my findings above, and make a decision at the time. I wont 
make a finding on whether this should be granted at this time as we dont know what the 
situation will be in the future.
The payment holiday should be applied in line with the FCA guidance. So it should not be 
recorded on Mrs Bs credit file and Halifax should discuss how she can best repay the 
missed monthly payments upon expiry of the payment holiday. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc should grant Mrs B a payment holiday from acceptance of this decision 
for three months as per FCA Guidance. Upon expiry, it should offer a further three months if 
she requests this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman