DRN-2868756
The complaint
Miss C complains at the manner in which Barclays Bank UK PLC handled the closure of an 
account. She says that she was given inadequate explanations in relation to items which 
affected her closing balance. She wishes to be reimbursed for any sum owed. And to be 
compensated for the wasted time and stress caused by errors.   
What happened
Miss C complains that when she closed her rewards account with Barclays in October 2019, 
there were unexplained items on the account. And she felt that shed been short-changed by 
£7. She said that when shed asked for an explanation, she felt shed been fobbed off. And 
that there was a lack of communication and generally poor service.
Barclays told us that it had now provided explanations to each of Miss Cs queries. But in 
view of the delay it offered to increase the offer of compensation to £100. It offered a sincere 
apology and an additional £7 to reflect the payment that wouldve been made had the 
account not been closed just before that payment was due.
Our investigator thought that Barclays increased offer of compensation, together with its 
explanation and apology, was a fair resolution of this complaint.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first apologise to Miss C for the length of time its taken to get to the final decision.
I should further clarify that an issue which I understand Miss C has raised with the 
Information Commissioners Office - about out of date information being included in some 
correspondence she received from Barclays - doesnt form part of my decision.
I can see that Miss C feels strongly about whats happened. And I understand shed be 
upset that it took so long to get a full explanation from Barclays for the queries she raised.
Miss Cs complaint is about an incorrect balance being shown at the time of the closure of 
her account. And the lack of proper explanation and generally poor service when she raised 
a query.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator has sent Miss C a copy of the explanations that he received from Barclays. 
Ill not repeat this in detail as Miss C is aware of the content.
But in summary it explains that the £7 wasnt paid as the account was closed before the date 
the payment was due to be credited. And that due to the very specific criteria of the account 
it was felt branch staff might not have come across the queried issues before. And so were 
not able to give adequate explanations  even though they tried to do so.
When she brought her complaint, Miss C stated that she wanted to be given a full 
explanation in relation to the queries shed raised. Whilst its taken too long for Barclays to 
provide the answers, I think it has now done so. And its also made an offer of compensation 
and provided an apology.
When determining an award of compensation the aim is not to penalise a business. But 
rather to compensate the consumer for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced 
due to an error. And whilst the monetary aspect of any complaint isnt necessarily an 
indication of the upset caused by the complaint issues, I still need to ensure that any award 
is in within reasonable bounds.
Im of the opinion that the explanations now provided, together with the apology and offer of 
compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should now (if its not already done so) take the required steps to implement its 
offer.
 Pay £100 to Miss C for distress and inconvenience;
 Pay an additional £7 to Miss C (being the last rewards payment on the account). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint. But I find that the offer now made 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the action (if not already done) stipulated in the 
preceding section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman