DRN-3898263
The complaint
Miss M complains that the car she was provided with under a hire agreement with Ald 
Automotive Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality and she wasnt provided with the service 
she should have been when dealing with this issue.
What happened
Miss M entered into a hire agreement with Ald Automotive in May 2022 to hire a new car. 
The agreement was for 24 months, and Miss M paid an initial rental and was then required 
to pay 23 monthly rentals of around £720 (excluding the insurance costs).
The car was delivered in May 2022. Miss M drove the car locally and noticed a loud noise 
when pulling away from a stationary position and that the car was dragging. She contacted 
her leasing adviser and was told to contact the dealership. She did this and after a few calls 
the car was booked in on 16 June. However, Miss M was concerned about driving the car 
given the noise and so it was arranged for the car to be inspected at Miss Ms property. The 
recovery agent inspected Miss Ms car and she says he acknowledged the noise and said it 
was to do with the brakes. He took the car for a short drive but said there was no fault. 
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome and was told she could take the car to a garage. 
However, Miss M says this wasnt what she had been told would happen when she booked 
the roadside agent as she had been told the car would be repaired by the agent or taken to a 
garage, not that she would need to arrange this. Miss M called Ald Automotive but says the 
operative was rude and unhelpful.
In September 2022, Ald arranged to collect Miss Ms car, but this wasnt at a suitable time for 
Miss M and after further communication the car was collected in October for inspection. The 
noise was noted in the inspection, but the report card notes this as normal and that the car 
drove as expected.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that there wasnt evidence that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. She noted that Miss M hadnt collected 
the car after it was inspected and that the car had been uplifted and was with Ald 
Automotive. She said Miss M should contact Ald Automotive about the return of the car and 
the outstanding payments under the agreement
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators view. She sent further evidence including further 
explanation of the experience she had, and the timings of the events involved as well as a 
video of the car. She said that the recovery agent had noted the noise the car was making 
and had he driven it for a longer period she says he would have noticed the car dragging as 
well. She said that Ald Automotive had been dismissive of her case from the outset and 
reiterated that the car wasnt of the quality expected of a new car and she hadnt received 
the service she should have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has made detailed submissions about the issues she has experienced. While I 
havent addressed each point she has raised, I want to reassure her I have considered all 
the evidence provided and based my decision on this. However, I have detailed the key 
points in my reasoning below. Miss M has also referred to other decisions in her 
submissions. I have noted these but want to be clear that I treat each case based on its 
individual merits. And where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory I base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Miss M leased a new car under a hire agreement with Ald Automotive. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the car supplied needed to be of 
satisfactory quality. Given the car was new when supplied I can understand why Miss M 
expected it to be free from faults including any minor defects. 
Miss M raised her concerns about the car within a month of its delivery. She noted a loud 
noise when starting off and that there appeared to be some resistance or dragging when 
driving. She contacted the leasing adviser and was told to contact the dealership for the 
issues to be investigated. Miss M says that the appointment was initially too far off, and she 
also became concerned about driving the car. A roadside inspection was therefore arranged. 
I find that this was a reasonable response to Miss Ms concerns, and this provided an 
opportunity for an initial inspection.
The roadside inspection took place on 10 June. Miss M says the roadside agent noted the 
noise and said it was the brakes but not a fault. She says the agent only took the car for a 
short drive and so the dragging wasnt identified, and it was concluded the car wasnt faulty. I 
appreciate that Miss M didnt think this was a thorough inspection and that her 
understanding was that the car would be repaired at the roadside or taken to a garage. 
However, as the agent didnt find the car was faulty, I cant say that he was required to take 
further action. Miss M says she was told she could take the car to a garage and given the 
outcome of the agents assessment I dont find this unreasonable.
Miss M wasnt happy with the conclusion of the assessment and contacted Ald Automotive. 
Ald Automotive didnt provide a final response to Miss Ms complaint within the required 
timeframe and wrote to her on 29 July 2022 to say that the investigation was taking longer 
than expected and that Miss M could refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Miss M had already raised her complaint with this service and so I do not find that 
this delay from Ald Automotive meant she was delayed in referring her complaint. I do 
understand that it would have been frustrating that Ald Automotive said more time was 
needed but in this case, I find it did provide the update and referral rights required and so I 
do not find it is required to do anything further in regard to this issue. 
I appreciate Miss M didnt use the car due to her concerns but given the initial assessment 
didnt find a fault I think she could have continued to use the car or if she had been too 
worried to do so she could have arranged a further inspection. However, it did take time for 
the car to be inspected again and I appreciate the upset this caused Miss M.
A booking was made for 21 September, but Miss M needed the car to be collected at 8am. 
As this didnt happen the booking was rearranged for 11 October. I note Miss Ms comments 
about the calls she received at this time about the car including being chased for payments. I 
am sorry to hear of the stress she was under and the impact this had on her work. However, 
as Miss M wasnt making the agreed payments under her agreement, I cannot say that Ald 
Automotive was wrong to follow up on this. Although Miss M had a complaint outstanding 
this didnt mean that payments had to be put on hold or that she was no longer liable for these.
The inspection carried out on 11 October noted a slight noise from the brakes when 
releasing the brake pedal but recorded this as normal. Miss M has said the noise is present 
even when the brake isnt used, and she has sent a video of the car. I have watched the 
video and while the noise can be heard I do not find that this is enough to be able to say that 
the car is faulty or not of satisfactory quality. I say this because there have been two 
inspections of the car considering the issue Miss M has raised and while the noise has been 
noted neither has identified a fault. As no fault has been identified, I do not find I can say that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I understand how upsetting this experience has been for Miss M and there have been delays 
which have meant Miss M has felt let down by the service received. But, overall, as the car 
was inspected by the roadside agent on Miss Ms request and although no faults were found 
a further inspection was arranged for Miss M I do not find I have enough to say that the 
service Miss M received from Ald Automotive was such that it is required to take any further 
action.
Overall, I am sorry to hear about the stress and upset Miss M has experienced since leasing 
the car and I am particularly sorry to hear that she feels this has caused issues with her 
employment. But without evidence that the car was faulty I do not find I have enough to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman