DRN-3031264
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Capital Ones offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why I say this. The credit was taken when Mrs M 
completed her postal application for it on 17 October 2005. The PPI was sold during a 
telephone call when Mrs M activated the credit card on 29 October 2005. Capital One 
has not been able to provide a copy of the telephone call. Capital One has been able to 
provide a copy of the telephone sales process it says their staff followed at the time 
which suggests it should have made clear that the policy was optional. Having 
considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of detailed 
testimony from Mrs M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think the sales 
process wasnt followed in this case. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs M enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs M. Mrs M was eligible 
for the benefits of the cover and the cover would have paid out in addition to her 
company sick pay and for longer than her employers would have paid her at her full rate 
of pay. And the cover would have reduced Mrs Ms reliance on her savings. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Mrs M. And although Mrs M says she had two 
medical conditions in the years before the sale, I dont think better information about the 
existing medical exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the 
policy. I say this because one of the conditions was a broken bone in 1989, 16 years 
before the sale, which caused her to take six weeks off work. The other condition caused 
Mrs M to undergo knee surgery and take up to four weeks off work in 2004. Mrs M has 
provided no detailed testimony about these conditions and no testimony that they caused 
her any ongoing issues or caused her to take any significant time off work after the initial 
occurrence in the subsequent years before the sale. It also looks like it was affordable  
so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mrs M would have declined the cover had Capital One done anything 
more.
While the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and/or 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Mrs M said she would have turned 60 while the policy was in force and so she would 
have not been eligible for the cover from that time. However, Mrs M was 58 at the time of 
the sale and the policy would have covered Mrs M until the age of 65. So, there were 
many years of cover available to Mrs M under the policy. So, I do not believe that better 
information about this would have led her to avoid the policy. 
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mrs M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Capital One failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs M paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs M 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Capital One had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So, I consider that Capital Ones offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
Capital One says it has paid this amount. If Capital One has already paid Mrs M 
compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Capital 
One (Europe) plc should pay Mrs M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). If 
Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Capital One (Europe) plc should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman