DRN-3210104
The complaint
Mr B complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided him with 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr B took three loans from Morses between March 2020 and July 2020. Ive included some 
of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term (weeks) weekly 
repayment
1 £250.00 05/03/2020 20/07/2020 34 £12.50
2 £200.00 26/05/2020 outstanding 34 £10.00
3 £250.00 20/07/2020 outstanding 34 £12.50
Mr B has had some problems repaying his final two loans and the statement of accounts 
provided by Morses show outstanding balances remain due.
Morses considered Mr Bs complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter. 
Morses concluded it hadnt done anything wrong when it approved these loans for Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and his representative referred the 
complaint to this Service in June 2021. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for Morses to 
have granted loan 1. But the adjudicator thought that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been lent. 
He said, the repayments for these loans represented a significant proportion of Mr Bs 
declared weekly income. In the adjudicators view, this meant Mr B wouldve been unlikely to 
repay his loans while still being able to meet his existing commitments. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators assessment and offered to put things right for Mr B in 
line with what was recommended. But, as Mr B still owed Morses money, it agreed to reduce 
the balance so that Mr B would only need to repay the capital which is still outstanding. 
Morses said Mr B would still owe it £351.27. 
The offer was put to Mr Bs representative. But the representative contacted us to let us 
know Mr B didnt want to accept the offer because He thought he would receive a cash 
refund.
Mr B then requested an ombudsman consider the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr B doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to 
lend loans 2 and 3 and Morses have already accepted that something went wrong when 
these loans were approved, because it has offered to put things right for Mr B in line with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
Instead, it appears the dispute (although Mr B hasnt said this) is whether loan 1 should be 
upheld as well as the redress that is due to be carried out, because Mr B says he thought he 
would be due a cash refund. 
For completeness, Ive included what Morses needs to do to put things right for Mr B in 
relation to loans 2 and 3 at the end of this decision. 
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.Loan 1
This was Mr Bs first loan with Morses. Before the loan was approved, Mr B told Morses he 
earned £155.22 per week and Morses seems to have used his credit report in order to verify 
this amount. 
He also declared that he had weekly expenditure of £88, leaving him with £65.22 per week 
in order to meet his contractual loan repayments of £12.50. 
Based on the information Mr B declared Morses couldve been confident he was in a position 
to afford the contractual repayments. Given this was the first loan, I think the checks that 
Morses did were proportionate and it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on the 
information it was given by Mr B. So, I dont think it needed to do any further checks such as 
reviewing his bank statements before agreeing to the loan. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 1.
Loans 2 and 3
As I said at the start of the decision, I wont comment further on whether Morses was right or 
wrong to approve these loans because it has already been accepted that something did go 
wrong. So, there is nothing further for me to decide about whether these loans shouldve 
been provided.  
I appreciate Mr B would like a cash refund but Im satisfied the approach that both the 
adjudicator and Morses have proposed to take in redressing loans 2 and 3 is in line with 
what this Service typically does with cases of this nature. 
When this Service decides something has gone wrong we try, as far as possible, to put the 
consumer back into the position they wouldve been had the error not been made. For 
example, in this case loans 2 and 3 ought to not have been provided. 
But, in unaffordable lending cases it isnt always straightforward because the money has 
been advanced and spent. Where this has happened, we dont think a lender should be able 
to benefit from the mistake  which is why wed ask that any interest, fees or charges that 
were levied be refunded. And if there were these charges, wed also ask for 8% simple 
interest to be added to this sum  but only where the loan has been repaid. 
However, what would be expected is that any sums borrowed should be repaid. So, in this 
case, Mr B was advanced a total of £450 for loans 2 and 3. Mr B shouldnt repay any more 
than this back to Morses. But as Mr M hasnt repaid more than this, it is only correct that 
Morses reduces his balance by the value of the payments he has made and not charge him 
any interest. This is why, Morses says the current balance (once the deductions are taken 
into account) will be £351.94. 
This approach to compensation is well established, and I dont see any reason to depart 
from the approach in this case. I acknowledge that Mr B wants a cash refund, but I dont 
think its appropriate to do so, when an outstanding balance remains due to Morses. 
Putting things right
Morses has already accepted that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been provided and Ive 
outlined below what it has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr B. If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr B having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining principal due on outstanding loans. If 
this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr B. Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
you have already written-off.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file about 
loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
Finally, Id remind Morses to treat Mr B fairly and with forbearance if he needs a repayment 
plan to repay what is owed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part.
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr B as directed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman