DRN-3879176
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or authorise. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr L contacted Nationwide about payments that had been made to a food 
delivery company on his account between 18 and 22 June 2022. Nationwide refunded them.
After they had made the refund, Nationwide told Mr L it was going to close his account. Mr L 
told Nationwide he would raise more complaints to annoy the building society. 
In August 2022, Mr L contacted Nationwide and disputed payments made between 9 and 
22 June 2022. There were three payments to Amazon and the rest were made in shops and 
entertainment venues using Apple Pay. Nationwide didnt agree to refund these payments. 
Mr L complained. He was unhappy hed not been refunded and said he did not have Apple 
Pay. He was also unhappy with the time the building society needed to review the claim 
again. In its final response letter, Nationwide said the phone used to make the disputed 
payments had also been used to make genuine ones, and the phone was registered to 
Mr Ls online banking. It said every claim is investigated on a case by case basis. 
Nationwide said its advisor had not made any mistake when they told Mr L that the timescale 
for the claim outcome to be reviewed was three business days. 
Mr L referred the complaint to us. He told our Investigator he was disputing all of the 
payments made using Apple Pay, dating back to September 2021. He said that he didnt 
have an iPhone when the disputed payments happened. Mr L told our Investigator hed told 
Nationwide about all of the payments, but it did not look into them. Our Investigator told Mr L 
she had listened to the call hed had with the building society at the time he made the claim 
and hed been very specific about what was in dispute. Mr L told our Investigator hed used a 
friends iPhone to register Apple Pay for his personal bank account and his friends iPhone to 
log into his online banking. 
Nationwide agreed that our Investigator could consider all of the payments made using 
Apple Pay as part of this complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Nationwide had acted fairly and said it did not need to refund him. 
She considered Mr L must have been aware that he had Apple Pay. She pointed out hed 
contacted this service using an iPhone in the past and that both disputed and undisputed 
payments were made using the same phone. 
She thought Mr L was probably aware of the account balance and the account activity. She 
concluded that either Mr L had made the payments himself or hed allowed a friend to make 
them.
Mr L didnt agree. He said he didnt make the payments and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed again. So the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwide treated Mr L fairly and that it can hold him responsible for 
the transactions in dispute. Ill explain why.
Where some evidence might be missing, or doesnt give me the answers to my 
questions or doesnt match what Im being told (as some of it is here), I make a 
decision on balance- in other words, what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened using the evidence I do have and the wider facts. 
Nationwide can hold Mr L responsible for payments made from his account if he 
made them himself or agreed they could be made for him, or if he didnt keep his 
account safe  either by being very careless or purposely failing to keep the items he 
uses to make payments secure. 
Most of the payments Mr L disputes were made using Apple Pay- and to be able to 
do this, Mr Ls debit card needs to be registered for Apple Pay. Nationwide has said it 
sent a text message to the mobile number it has on file for Mr L as part of the 
process to set things up. This is the same number the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has used to speak to Mr L. There is no believable reason for how someone could 
have registered Apple Pay without Mr L knowing or helping them do it. 
From what I have seen, all of the payments in dispute were made with ways to make 
the payment and information Nationwide gave to Mr L. 
Mr L has changed his version of what happened, including the what the complaint is 
about. He has also said he would raise complaints just to annoy Nationwide. This 
makes it very difficult for me to believe what hes said. 
If Mr L set up Apple Pay on his friends phone, Nationwide can still hold him 
responsible for any payments his friend made. This is because he can be considered 
to have given his friend a way to use his account to make payments. If this is what 
happened, Mr L took a risk by sharing details of his account that should only be used 
by him.
There are genuine payments made using the same phone that was used to make the 
payments that are in dispute. Im not convinced the phone really was with his friend 
given how often it would have needed to be passed between them.
Mr L made an earlier claim for payments to a food delivery company that happened 
on the same days as some of the payments now in dispute. I think its likely Mr L 
would have been aware of these transactions at that time, yet he did not report them 
sooner. I dont think it is likely that Mr L would not have noticed them before now.
Most of the payments in dispute are for less than £5 and take place in entertainment 
venues and supermarkets in the general area where Mr L lives. Hes made 
undisputed payments at the same places and spent similar amounts. Im not 
convinced that an unknown person that had been able to access Mr Ls account to 
steal from him would have used it like this. For the reasons Ive said above, I dont think Mr Ls version of events is correct. 
I believe he knows more about these payments than hes said. I think it is more likely 
than not that he either made the payments himself or has allowed someone else to 
do so. So, I cant fairly say that Nationwide should refund him.
Nationwide told Mr L that it would take three business days for it to review the 
outcome of his claim again. I dont think this is unreasonable and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Nationwide caused any undue delay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman