DRN-3287085
The complaint
Mr A complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) irresponsibly granted him a 
loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr A acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. Mr A was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £356.99, with a 
final payment of £366.99 after which he would own the car. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £22,929.40 towards which Mr A paid a deposit of £1,500.
Mr A says that SMF didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMF didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included a review of Mr As credit commitments from his credit 
file, asking Mr A for his income and using statistical methods to estimate his likely 
expenditure. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought SMF ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr A.
SMF didnt agree and said it wouldnt have noticed most of the additional loans the 
investigator identified in Mr As bank statements and that it had overestimated Mr As 
outgoings, assuming he was responsible for all the household bills when it was evident he 
was one of several people living at the same house who would have shared costs.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit file SMF reviewed showed that three of Mr As four credit cards were already at 
their credit limit. Mr As bank account was also at its overdraft limit and whilst hed explained 
to them that he was a homeowner it was apparent from the credit file that there were no 
mortgage payments being made. This was a large credit commitment over an extended 
period of time, and I think these issues should have led SMF to look deeper and to have 
gathered more information to establish if the loan was affordable for Mr A. I dont therefore 
think the checks they completed were proportionate.
I think it would have been proportionate for SMF to have found out more about Mr As 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what SMF would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr As bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. The 
statements show that Mr A was struggling financially. In that time, he had taken out 
additional loans for over £8,100 when his earnings in that period were only about £4,800. 
The statements also showed transfers to other accounts which I think would fairly have 
warranted further investigation from SMF given the additional debt Mr A had been taking on. 
Those accounts showed that Mr A had been gambling quite heavily and would have added 
to the picture that Mr A wasnt in control of his finances at the time of application and was 
struggling. Mr A wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement 
without financial difficulty or having to borrow further. Had SMF completed proportionate 
checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think SMF ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr A should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £13,700. Mr A has nearly paid that 
much. At the time our investigator provided her view she estimated there was a shortfall of 
£607.95 before the cash price was paid. So, I think SMF should agree an affordable 
repayment plan for any shortfall and they should also remove any adverse reports theyve 
made to Mr As credit file in relation to this agreement.
If Mr A has now paid more than the cash price of the car SMF should refund any excess and 
add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman