DRN-2361455
The complaint
Mr P complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to deal with a claim he 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in a fair manner.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint on 15 September 2021, which fully 
explained the background. NatWest has accepted my provisional decision, while Mr P has 
disagreed with it. The background to the case, as set out in my provisional decision, is 
reproduced below:
Mr P and his wife booked return flights to New York City with an airline (T), paying on 
Mr Ps NatWest credit card. The booking was made in July 2019.
The flights cost £629.98 return per person, for Premium class1 seats flying in 
September 2019. According to Ts marketing material at the time, Premium class 
involved the granting of increased legroom, better meals, better in-flight entertainment, 
complimentary alcoholic drinks, and a 10kg hand luggage allowance, as compared to 
standard or economy class.
The group of companies of which T was a part became insolvent prior to Mr Ps flight 
back to the UK. As a result, the planned return flight was cancelled.
Mr P and his wife were repatriated under arrangements made by the UK Government, 
in standard economy class seats on a flight operated by another airline. They did not 
pay anything extra for their repatriation flight.
Mr P subsequently claimed a refund from NatWest for a duty-free purchase (which the 
bank refunded) and the full cost of the return flights. The bank said it would not 
reimburse him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as he had 
been repatriated free of charge. The bank also disagreed with some concerns Mr P had 
raised about the customer service it had provided after he had made his claim, saying 
that it had not delayed in communicating with him.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators considered the matter. She 
concluded there had been a breach of contract by T, for which NatWest was liable 
under section 75 of the CCA, and that as a result Mr P should receive a refund of the 
difference in value between the tickets he paid for and the flights he actually received. 
She calculated this as being 50% of the value of the tickets for the return flight, and 
recommended a refund of £314.99. She agreed Mr P had received poor service from 
the bank and recommended it pay him £150 compensation for this. However, she 
thought that a claim Mr P had advanced for a refund of some of his monthly bank 
account fees should not succeed because these fees were not paid to receive an 
enhanced service, they were a charge for certain other benefits (such as insurance) 
which were included with his bank account.
Mr P disagreed. His view was that our investigator was looking at the matter in the 
wrong way by basing it on his actual financial loss. He developed two separate lines of 
argument which he has referred to at different times during the progression of his 
complaint with this service. The first argument is premised on our investigators 
approach (i.e. attempting to calculate his financial loss) being fundamentally wrong. 
The second argument supposes our investigator was correct in her general approach, 
but argues that the way in which she calculated his financial loss was wrong. I have 
given a brief summary of the arguments below:
Argument 1
He paid T for two outbound flights and two return flights, but there was a complete 
failure by T to provide the return flights. It is irrelevant that he did not suffer a financial 
loss: T did not provide what he had paid it for. He should therefore receive a refund for 
the flights he didnt receive.
T and/or NatWest have been unjustly enriched by their retention of the money paid for 
the non-performed flights. The Government gave the repatriation flights effectively as 
gifts and have not subrogated consumer claims against the banks. And although it 
appeared the Government has asked banks and insurers for contributions towards the 
costs of the repatriation programme, there is no evidence they have done so. In fact, 
the Government has now confirmed UK Finance, the association representing banks 
such as NatWest, has said it will not make any contribution to the repatriation 
programme.
Argument 2
He received seats of a lesser value on the repatriation flight and should get back the 
difference in value. The difference in value between the seat classes, taken at the point 
of breach (not the point of sale, which was the point our investigator had used), was 
about £700 per seat, so he would be entitled to £1,400 by this analysis.
As a result of the breach, there has been loss of enjoyment, inconvenience and lost 
time on holiday (one day) as a result of having to make the repatriation arrangements  
valued at £350. Additionally, he had suffered subsequent emotional and 
inconvenience damages, including non-delivery of the premium banking service, 
valued at £600 and unnecessary prolongation, valued at £150.
Ultimately, no agreement could be reached and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
In my provisional decision I agreed with the outcome our investigator had reached, but 
explained my reasoning in more detail.
I analysed Mr Ps contract with T, coming to the conclusion that on cancellation of the return 
leg of his journey by T, he would be contractually entitled to a partial refund under sections 
28.5 and 29 of the conditions of carriage:
according to the contract with T, if the return flight was cancelled then Mr P was 
entitled to receive a refund of the price of the one way fare for both himself and his 
wife, so long as he didnt use the return portion of his tickets. The invoice from T 
doesnt show separate prices for the outbound and return flights, only a total price per 
person for the flights combined. Our investigator worked on the assumption that the 
outbound and return flights were likely to be priced equally. Nobody has seriously challenged this assumption and as it doesnt appear unreasonable I adopt it as well. It 
means under the contract, Mr P would have been entitled to a refund of £629.98 in the 
event of cancellation of the return flight, so long as he did not use his return tickets. 
I went on to find that the contract also allowed Mr P to claim for additional losses, due to the 
impact of terms within it dealing with compensatory damages. I concluded:
the effect of section 57.2 is to allow Mr P to claim for the amount of money that 
would put him in the same position as though the contract with T had been properly 
performed.
But I also concluded that Mr Ps acceptance of a repatriation flight had consequences 
regarding his right to a refund:
In effect, he exchanged his tickets with T for tickets with V. In doing so, I think he must 
be considered to have used his return tickets, meaning he would not be eligible for a 
refund under sections 28.5 and 29 of the contract.
Mr P has disagreed with this last finding. He said he could not be considered to have used 
the tickets by exchanging them for tickets on a repatriation flight. T had been in liquidation 
and his tickets were worthless, so he had nothing of value to exchange or use. His tickets 
with T were essentially proof of purchase, and on production of this he received the 
repatriation flights from the government as a gift. It didnt affect his contractual rights.
I wasnt persuaded by Mr Ps first argument, saying the following in my provisional decision:
I need to address Mr Ps Argument 1. This is, in essence, an argument that the 
basis for his payment to T had failed. This is normally referred to as failure of 
consideration or failure of basis, and the usual remedy for this is for the money paid 
to be returned because the recipient has been unjustly enriched.
I am not sure if Mr P is able to make a claim against NatWest under section 75 of the 
CCA for a total failure of basis. Section 75 states that the debtor must have a claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. I think its 
debatable whether a claim for a total failure of basis can be properly defined as a claim 
in respect of a breach of contract. But I dont think it is a question I have to answer, 
because I am not convinced that there has been a total failure of basis. I say this for 
two reasons.
Firstly, as mentioned earlier the contract did not itemise the prices of the outbound and 
return flights. Instead, an all-in price was given for each passenger. And T did provide 
the outbound flights to Mr P and his wife. The contract was partially performed. It is 
generally thought that a failure of basis needs to be total, and not partial, for a claim to 
be brought on those grounds. Secondly, T cancelled the return flights, rather than 
simply failing to perform them. This is important, because cancellation of the flights by 
T was an event contemplated in the contract and which gave Mr P specific contractual 
rights. Mr Ps rights under the contract if such an event occurred were outlined in 
sections 28.5, 29 and 57.2, as stated earlier.
Responding to this point, Mr P disagreed that a failure of basis needed to be total rather than 
partial for a successful claim to be brought. He referred to the case of Giedo van der Garde 
vs. Force India Formula One Team [2010] EWHC 2373 (QB), which he said supported his 
view. He noted that it was straightforward to apportion a value to the outbound and inbound flights, at 50% each of the total price. A failure to perform half the contract would therefore 
mean a return of half of the price was due.
I then went on to consider how Mr Ps losses should be calculated, given the contract 
allowed him to claim for additional losses flowing from T cancelling his flights. I noted that 
because the contract was a contract of carriage, and not a contract for a holiday, Mr P was 
unable to claim for non-financial losses such as distress and inconvenience. I referred to the 
case of Graham & Anor v. Thomas Cook Group [2012] EWCA Civ 1355, which provided 
support for this point of view.
I agreed with our investigator that the right way to measure Mr Ps financial loss was to 
calculate the difference in value between what he paid for and what he received. However, I 
agreed with Mr P that the correct date to calculate any difference in value was the date of Ts 
breach of contract. However, I considered that calculating this difference was a problematic 
exercise, and I think its worth reproducing this section of my provisional decision in full:
A key difficulty however, is measuring what that difference in value was. Our 
investigator used publicly available information to estimate the average uplift in price, 
on a transatlantic route, between Economy and Premium Economy tickets. She arrived 
at a conclusion that Premium Economy tickets were usually twice the price, and 
concluded Mr P had therefore received a service only half as valuable as what he had 
contracted for on the return flight. Mr P contends that, at the point of breach, it was very 
expensive to purchase flights (probably due to a combination of short notice, decreased 
capacity and increased demand due to Ts insolvency) and Premium Economy tickets 
would have cost around £700 per person more than Economy tickets. Mr P hasnt 
supplied specific evidence of this although I find his general point  that prices in 
general may have been inflated due to the circumstances  very plausible. One thing 
that is certain is that the prices of flights fluctuate constantly, something which makes 
the exercise of quantifying the difference in value an uncertain and delicate one.
Given that this was a contract for a service rather than for goods (which are typically 
bought and sold for a profit), I am not sure that a precise measure of the difference in 
value is entirely appropriate. I note the courts have discouraged too fine-toothed an 
assessment of the difference in value in contracts for services.1 And I am wary of 
finding that Mr P held tickets which were worth much more than he had paid for them, 
at the point of Ts breach of contract. This might result in him making a speculative 
profit, which was clearly not something which was an intended or contemplated 
outcome of the contract.
I also have to bear in mind that this was a consumer contract, not a commercial one, 
and that a court might find damages are not properly to be measured by reference to 
purely economic criteria, and may not award damages which were disproportionate to 
the benefit lost as a result of the breach.2
So what benefit did Mr P lose as a result of ending up in Economy class with V rather 
than Premium with T? He was flown from New York to the UK as agreed. It appears he 
would have had the same hand luggage entitlement, and its unclear from the literature 
of the respective airlines if he would have had an inferior meal and entertainment. What 
he lost the benefit of was the considerably larger seats and legroom in Premium class. I 
think this was a significant benefit considering the duration of the flight. Mr P also lost 
the benefit of complimentary alcoholic beverages.
1 Regus (UK) Ltd v Epcot Solutions Ltd [2008] EWCA Civ 362
2 Ruxley Electronics and Construction Limited v. Forsyth [1996] AC 344However, I return to the difficulty of quantifying the loss. I do not think awarding Mr P 
£1,400 would be proportionate to his actual loss, bearing in mind the considerations 
Ive outlined above. As well as bearing those considerations in mind, I must remind 
myself of the direction in FSMA to make an award against the respondent of such 
amount as the ombudsman considers fair compensation for loss or damage (my 
emphasis). Its fair that Mr P should receive a significant reduction in the amount he 
paid for the return leg of his journey. Given the uncertainties involved and the 
questionable appropriateness of measuring the loss precisely, our investigators 
recommendation of 50% of the price paid per person for the return flight appears to me 
to be fair compensation for the recoverable loss and damage Mr P has actually 
suffered. So I intend to award Mr P £314.99 for this, on the basis this would have been 
a fair amount for NatWest to offer in response to Mr Ps claim.
In response Mr P said he, for understandable reasons, hadnt thought to obtain the details of 
the difference in seat prices between economy and premium class on the day of the breach. 
However, he said he was confident that the amount of £157.50 per seat I was minded to 
award was derisory and not fair. He noted that there was a significant price differential 
between tickets booked for advance travel and those booked on the day, as well as a 
differential between economy and premium economy tickets. He had booked his tickets with 
T some time in advance, which would have been cheaper. Calculating the difference in value 
at the point of breach should therefore result in a much greater difference in value due to 
these factors. Mr P supplied evidence in the form of price calendars from V. Mr P accepted 
that he was unable to claim for non-financial losses caused by Ts breach of contract.
I also considered NatWests customer service issues in my provisional decision, making the 
following findings:
Our investigator considered NatWests standard of customer service in dealing with Mr 
Ps enquiries and claim had fallen below a reasonable standard. She thought £150 
compensation was appropriate to reflect the impact of this. She didnt think Mr P should 
receive a refund of the monthly fees associated with his banking facilities, as these fees 
were unrelated to the level of service he was supposed to receive from the bank and 
were instead related to other benefits such as insurance.
I agree with the findings of our investigator here. Mr P was very annoyed at not being 
contacted by the bank about his claim and a general lack of communication. I can see 
Mr P sent a number of emails which were not responded to, and that there was 
confusion between the part of NatWest dealing with section 75 claims, and the part of 
NatWest dealing with refunds of transactions via the chargeback system. There were 
also delays in handling the claim. I can appreciate why Mr P was annoyed by this and 
agree that £150 compensation is appropriate to reflect the impact this had on him.
Regarding the monthly fees for the bank account, I also agree with our investigator that 
these fees were not paid in order to receive enhanced customer service, and were for 
other extras which were included with the account. So I dont think an additional refund 
of these fees for poor customer service is appropriate.
Mr P noted that NatWests handling of the matter was one of the things he was most 
unhappy about and asked that I reconsider the level of compensation for this. He said the 
bank had not responded to his emails and other contact with his assigned personal 
account manager, and the only apology hed been given had implied he was lying about 
not having received emails. He considered a proper apology was warranted and 
observed I could make a direction ordering NatWest to do this. He also said he had 
made a different complaint recently about the bank involving no financial loss, in response to which it had promptly apologised and paid £300 compensation. This 
contrasted markedly with the banks approach to this case.
Finally, Mr P reiterated his points about NatWest having received a windfall and being 
unjustly enriched at the governments expense. He said this was a more important issue to 
him than his own loss and confirmed he would be paying any settlement to charity. He said 
my provisional decision had sidestepped this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive divided the following part of my decision into sub-sections for ease of reading.
Failure of Consideration/Basis
Mr P has made some interesting points on the question of whether T cancelling the 
return leg of his flights means he could make a claim for failure of consideration. The 
case law hes referred to appears to support his point of view. I still think it is debatable 
whether a claim for failure of basis is something which can be properly defined as a claim 
in respect ofa breach of contract and therefore be a claim he could make against his 
bank under section 75. 
But I remain of the view that what happened was a cancellation rather than a failure to 
perform. On the day it became insolvent, T declared on its website that all flights had 
been cancelled. Cancellation by T was an event which had been contemplated in the 
conditions of carriage Mr P had agreed to, and which conferred on him valuable 
contractual rights which Ive gone on to discuss again below.
Assessing Damages for the Breach of Contract
Ive considered Mr Ps points around the difference in value between the flight he 
received and the flight he had paid for. He has focused on supply and demand, basing 
his estimate of financial loss on the amount it would have cost to purchase an equivalent 
pair of tickets at the time T cancelled the flights. 
But I find myself returning to the observations I made in my provisional decision about 
the considerable uncertainties involved in attempting a calculation, and the approach of 
the courts to assessing damages in contracts for services. Mr P hasnt specifically 
commented on those observations and I think they remain valid. If I were to calculate 
damages in the way Mr P has requested on purely economic criteria, the amount would 
likely be disproportionate to the benefit he actually lost by flying in economy class instead 
of premium. It could also result in him making a speculative profit, which was not the 
contemplated or intended outcome of the contract. My conclusions on this point remain 
the same as they were in my provisional decision.
Mr Ps right to a refund under the contract with T
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps arguments on the question of how his contract with T 
should be interpreted. Mr P has argued that he cannot properly be said to have used his tickets, meaning his contractual right to a refund for the return leg of his journey remains 
intact.
Having considered Mr Ps points, I agree with him that he has not used his tickets in the 
sense which was meant in his contract with T.  The ordinary meaning of the verb to use 
when applied to a ticket, would be to use the ticket for its contractual purpose. Theres 
nothing in Mr Ps contract with T which suggests any different meaning is meant in relation to 
his tickets. So in order to have used his return tickets, Mr P would have needed to have 
used them to obtain boarding passes for, and carriage on, his flight with T back to the UK.
In a loose sense, Mr P did use the tickets because they facilitated him obtaining a flight 
home with a different airline under the UK governments repatriation scheme. But it appears 
the part the tickets played in this process was simply to establish his eligibility for 
repatriation. He wasnt using the tickets to exercise any contractual rights with T. They were 
just evidence that he was entitled to receive a flight paid for by the government, and with 
which T was not involved.
This means I conclude the return leg of Mr Ps tickets was unused and he was therefore 
entitled, under the conditions of carriage, to a refund of this unused proportion of his tickets. 
T failed to provide this refund, meaning there has been a breach of contract for which 
NatWest could be held liable to Mr P for under section 75 of the CCA.
In my provisional decision I quoted a part of FSMA. The rules which govern the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, which largely mirror the wording of that part of FSMA, state the 
following about the money awards I can make to a complainant for financial loss:
DISP 3.7.2 R
Except in relation to a relevant complaint within the meaning of section 404B(3) of the 
Act, a money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for one or more of the following:
(1) financial loss (including consequential or prospective loss); 

whether or not a court would award compensation.
Here Mr P has a contractual claim for a refund of money from T, due to its failure to provide 
the return flight. It is likely NatWest shares Ts legal liability to refund Mr P, due to the 
operation of section 75 of the CCA. NatWest has refused to honour Mr Ps section 75 claim 
and this is a failing by the bank for which I have to decide what constitutes fair 
compensation for Mr P.  
I think the law would allow Mr P to receive a full refund, for the reasons Ive explained above. 
However, taking a broader view of the situation I think that to require NatWest to refund the 
full price of the return leg of his tickets would be to overcompensate him for his financial loss. 
Mr P received a free flight and I think its fair to take this into account when deciding what 
constitutes fair compensation, regardless of whether a court would do the same.
Conclusions regarding fair compensation for the Section 75 claimMy view on what would constitute fair compensation remains the same as outlined in my 
provisional decision. While Mr P was flown from the US to the UK on the originally agreed 
date, he ended up travelling in an inferior class to the one for which he had paid. As a result, 
he missed out on benefits such as larger seats and more legroom. I think fair compensation 
for this would equate to half of the price of the tickets he purchased, which is to say he 
should receive £314.99. 
Customer Service
Mr P has given his opinion on the level of poor customer service from the bank. I agreed 
in my provisional decision that he hadnt received an acceptable level of service and 
communication had been poor. I remain of that view. Ive considered the other points 
Mr P has made in response to my provisional decision.
Mr P has said he does pay for his personal account manager (which would imply 
receiving a better class of service), but I cant see this is the case. NatWest offers a 
Premier Banking service to customers who meet certain financial criteria, such as 
having a high enough income or level of savings with the bank, but it doesnt appear that 
this service costs anything on its own.
The Black Account Mr P has does cost a monthly fee, but this covers travel insurance, 
breakdown cover and airport lounge access, among other things. I cant see that it 
comes with any promise of a better level of customer service than customers who dont 
pay the monthly fee.
Mr P has also commented on NatWests wording in its final response letter. He says its 
implied he was lying about having not received emails when it wrote: I apologise if you 
have not received these however, I can see they were successfully sent to your email.
I dont think this implies Mr P was being untruthful about not having received emails. I 
take the sentence to mean the bank had verified that it had sent the emails to the correct 
email address. While most correctly addressed emails are received by the intended 
recipient, occasionally technical problems can prevent this. I dont think NatWest implied 
it didnt believe Mr Ps claim not to have received the emails.
As a side note, NatWest hasnt in my opinion provided satisfactory evidence that it did in 
fact send the emails in question to Mr P. Its contact notes contain two examples of 
emails being sent which I know Mr P did receive (because he has sent us copies). Both 
notes contain the email address it was sent to, which was Mr Ps email address. The 
notes relating to the emails Mr P says he didnt receive dont contain an email address, 
and the second of these notes just says that the department which sent the first email 
had been asked to send it again. But these were things Id considered already in my 
provisional decision when I referred to Mr P having sent emails which were not 
responded to. I dont ultimately see a reason to change the level of compensation for 
poor customer service.
Mr P has suggested I direct NatWest to make an apology. This is something I can do, but 
what I cant do is control the exact wording of any apology the bank would give. In my 
experience this can lead to further offence being caused and so its not a direction I will 
make. NatWest hasnt challenged my or the investigators findings that it delivered a poor 
service and got Mr Ps section 75 claim wrong, so I think it accepts it hasnt got things 
right here. I appreciate Mr P is looking for something more, but I dont think directing the 
bank to apologise will achieve this.Mr Ps other concerns
Mr P has said Ive sidestepped the broader issue of NatWest having been unjustly 
enriched at the governments expense by its retention of the money paid for the 
cancelled flight. 
I accept that I didnt comment on this issue in my provisional decision, and that is 
because I dont think its an appropriate question for the Financial Ombudsman Service 
to answer. In my provisional decision I said:
Mr P has made it clear that he is unhappy about the role NatWest and other banks 
have had to play in the events which have unfolded after the collapse of T. As I 
understand it, Mr P feels that due to the intervention of the Government to repatriate 
customers of T, NatWest has been shielded from the majority of customer claims it 
might have received and had to pay out on. He therefore considers it wrong that the 
bank has declined to contribute to the cost of the repatriation programme.
This is something I am unable to comment on as it is a general question about the 
financing of the Government-organised repatriation programme and the approach 
taken by UK financial institutions toward this. That isnt something I can look into a 
complaint about. Mr P could consider raising these specific concerns via other avenues 
such as his MP, who I understand he has already been in communication with.
I think Mr Ps concerns about the bank profiting from this situation falls into the same 
category. My powers dont extend, in any event, to punishing financial institutions for their 
actions. That would be a matter for the regulator.  
Putting things right
The awards I make in this final decision are the same as those I outlined in my provisional 
decision. NatWest must:
Refund £314.99 to Mr P, back-dating this to the day it declined his section 75 claim. 
Any interest, fees or charges relating to this amount which have accrued since then 
must be waived or refunded. If back-dating the refund means a credit balance would 
have been in place on Mr Ps account at any point then NatWest must pay 8% simple 
interest* on that credit balance from the date it would have arisen to the date it no 
longer existed.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require NatWest to take tax off this interest. The bank should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr P asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and order NatWest to take the 
actions set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 Will Culley
Ombudsman