DRN-2558099
The complaint
Mr Ps complained about the limit Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) placed on cover for 
jewellery and watches under his contents insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2018, Mr P bought a contents insurance policy from Hiscox. The policy included 
£500 cover for jewellery and watches. There was a £500 excess. Mr P renewed the policy 
the following year. The excess remained at £500 and cover for jewellery and watches was 
automatically increased to £515. Mr P didnt make a claim in either year.
At the start of 2020, Mr P contacted Hiscox because he wanted to add cover for his fiancees 
engagement ring. During their telephone conversation, Mr P became aware that cover for 
jewellery and watches under his policy was limited to £515. And there was a £500 excess on 
the policy. Mr P questioned this with Hiscoxs agent. The agent told him the terms of the 
policy meant that the maximum Mr P would receive (should he make a claim) would be 
£15.00.
Mr P complained to Hiscox. Hiscox investigated and rejected his complaint. They said theyd 
explained to Mr P that he needed to select the full replacement value for his jewellery and 
watches. Mr P hadnt asked to change the £500 cover included as standard. And Hiscox 
said that Mr P had accepted the £500 excess on the policy.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Hiscoxs response. So he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it. She was satisfied that Mr P was made aware of the policy terms 
and the excess when he bought his policy in 2018. And she noted the policy excess was 
applied collectively to contents, jewellery and watches. So she thought the policy for that 
year was reasonable.
But she said that, when the policy was renewed in 2019, the policy schedule listed jewellery 
and watches separately from contents  and applied a £500 excess to each. She said this 
change meant Mr P would only ever get £15 in the event of a claim  which wasnt a 
meaningful benefit to him. So she said Hiscox should refund Mr P the premium he paid for 
cover for jewellery and watches when he renewed his policy in 2019.
I didnt agree with our investigator. So I made a provisional decision. In that, I said I 
understood why Mr P was concerned.  But I explained our usual approach to this type of 
complaint is to say that businesses should deduct an excess from the value of a claim  not 
from any policy limit. Because deducting it from a policy limit means a consumer would 
never get the full value of the cover they paid.
And I didnt agree that there was a change in the way the policy excess was applied after it 
was renewed. Hiscox told us theyd only ever have applied one excess to a claim for both 
contents and jewellery. As no claim was ever made, I didnt have any information on which 
to decide they wouldnt have done that.  So I provisionally decided that Hiscox didnt need to 
do any more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision to both parties and invited them to provide any comments.  
Neither Mr P nor Hiscox have sent me anything more to consider.  So Im making my final 
decision for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision - which Ive summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Hiscox 
Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman