DRN-3589834
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he paid to a property 
development company.
 
What happened
Mr A was introduced to a property development business. That business was made up of a 
number of different linked entities, but for ease Ill refer to the overall business as M. It said 
that he could purchase loan notes in its business developing new properties, which he 
believed would pay him an average of 12% each year over three years. 
Mr A was provided with a significant amount of promotional and other material relating to M. 
Those materials set out completed and future projects that M said it was undertaking. It 
appears that Mr A was also provided with an independent valuation of the business and 
documents which showed that a trustee would oversee the investment. I can see that Mr A 
asked an extensive list of questions about the company. Those questions show that Mr A 
was somewhat sceptical of the high returns, particularly given that the loan notes were being 
sold as asset-backed which ought to have reduced the risk to his capital. It appears that 
after careful consideration of the opportunity Mr A decided to invest.  
I understand Mr A had previous experience of investing in a similar business and used some 
of the funds from his previous investment to invest in M. On 11 June 2019, Mr A made four 
payments totalling £100,000 to the property development business.
 
Later Mr A realised that M had not moved forward with one of the developments it was 
involved in and he became concerned about the company. Mr A reported the matter to 
Lloyds. He said that hed been the victim of a scam and should be reimbursed. It said that he 
hadnt fallen victim to a scam because M was a legitimate business. That meant that his 
payments couldnt be considered under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code, which requires it signatories to reimburse victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
In August 2021, M was wound up by The High Court after The Insolvency Service found it 
continued to take investors money, even after it was insolvent. 
Mr A referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators initially upheld the complaint 
but, on further consideration, they were of the view that there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the claims made by M were untrue and that it wasnt a legitimate business at the time Mr 
A made his payments.
 
Mr A disagreed. In summary he said:
- Ms brochures claimed it had already purchased the land for a hotel development, 
this wasnt true.
- He had evidence that the hotel chain that, it was claimed, would occupy the land did 
not have any knowledge of the project.
- M claimed that it owned other properties. This also wasnt true.
- M claimed that the bonds were asset-backed, but the projects they claimed were 
being built didnt exist. So, this cant have been true. 
- 29% of the payments he made were paid to the promoter of the scheme. He was not 
aware of this when he invested. 
- Lloyds changed their mind about whether hed been the victim of a scam and might 
have been able to recover funds on his behalf. 
- Despite claims by M, there were no trustees that had control over client money. 
Instead, client money was used personally by the directors. 
- Ms financial statement and valuation was fabricated and it lied about the value of the 
projects it had completed. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr A has lost money. I can understand why he thinks that he should be 
reimbursed. However, having considered the circumstances of this case carefully, I dont 
think Lloyds are responsible for his loss. Ill explain why.
The starting point in law is that Mr A is responsible for payments hes made himself. And, 
when making a payment of this nature, there is generally no protection against the non-
receipt of goods or services, or investments that go wrong. And, the CRM Code only applies 
to scams, it does not cover private civil disputes. 
Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as: 
a transfer of fundswhere
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The first condition is not relevant here  theres no dispute the payment went to its intended 
recipient. 
But Mr A argues that the funds were transferred for a fraudulent purpose. Fraudulent isnt 
defined in the CRM Code, but to give it its ordinary meaning  it means something done or 
obtained through (usually) criminal deception. And, as the CRM Code specifically excludes 
civil disputes, I think its reasonable to assume that the CRM Code is referring to criminal 
deception.  
So, I think the test I need to consider is not simply whether M made any misleading claims 
but rather whether Mr A was induced to invest in circumstances which amount to criminal 
deception. 
As already noted, M was wound up by The High Court following an investigation by The 
Insolvency Service, which acknowledged that M continued to take significant amounts of money from investors even after the point (in December 2019) when it hadnt been able to 
honour previous loan notes and knew it was insolvent.
Other comments made by The Insolvency Service lend some support to the allegations 
made by Mr A  particularly in relation to misleading claims about the investments being 
asset-backed and M misleading investors about its financial health. 
That said, The Insolvency Service hasnt said it found M to be entirely a scam. It accepts that 
it had, at times at least, operated as a legitimate business that was attempting to generate 
money through commercial ventures. As set out, I think Mr A is a reasonably experienced 
and astute investor who understood what he was investing in and did enough due diligence 
to satisfy himself that M was an actual commercial enterprise at the point he invested (even 
if some of the claims it made might not have been true). 
I havent addressed each of Mr As points individually. I dont mean this as a discourtesy and 
Ive carefully considered everything that he has said. Neither do I necessarily disagree with 
some of the points hes made, points which, as noted, have to some extent been supported 
by The Insolvency Services comments. But, what Ive had to consider is the broader 
question of whether the actions of M amount to criminal deception. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, we do not have the same investigative powers as The Insolvency Service 
or the police and I must reasonably defer to The Insolvency Service in this regard. A 
conclusion that M was involved in criminal deception at the point at which Mr A made his 
payments to it, would go, in my view, significantly beyond the findings of The Insolvency 
Service, which was in a far better position to investigate this matter.
 
I also note that there does not appear to be any indication that criminal charges have been 
brought against the directors of M and, in any case, misleading business practices do not 
necessarily amount to criminal deception. 
It follows that the circumstances of this case do not satisfy the definition of a scam under the 
CRM Code. 
As I dont think the circumstances here satisfy the definition of a scam, this matter is not 
covered by the CRM Code and I dont think Lloyds have made a mistake in refusing his 
claim. That also means that Lloyds did not have any obligation to try and recover Mr As 
money, though I can see that it did attempt to do this regardless but was unsuccessful. It 
also follows that Lloyds had no obligation to protect him from a bad investment which, in any 
case, its very unlikely it would have been able to uncover, even if it had spoken to Mr A at 
the time he made the payments, given what was known about the scheme at that point.
Im sorry that Mr A has lost money, but I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly in declining 
his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman