DRN-3505425
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) in regard to 
his travel insurance policy.
All references to IPA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr C Ive read and considered everything hes said carefully. However I will 
point out while our service has power to direct businesses to compensate for loss or material 
distress or inconvenience, and to take action in relation to an individual, we dont have the 
ability to order a business to change its practices or systems in a more general way.
 
Having reviewed matters, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint for these reasons:
Mr C did spend a long time, while calling IPA, on hold and has explained he missed a 
scheduled meeting while waiting for someone from IPA to respond.
While I appreciate why Mr C is frustrated, there were other options available if he 
didnt wish to continue with the call, such as calling back later or accessing the 
information he required online.
Mr C feels he should be compensated for lost income whilst waiting on hold to IPA. 
But as he wasnt acting in his professional capacity when contacting IPA, it wouldn't 
be reasonable to award compensation based on his hourly rate
IPA has acknowledged Mr C waited on hold for a long time, and it has offered Mr C 
£100 to recognise the inconvenience this has caused. Having considered the 
circumstances, I think this is reasonable as it fairly represents the inconvenience 
Mr C has been caused.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman