DRN-3101748
The complaint
 Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr P complained to Santander about the overdraft charges that had been applied to his 
account. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr P was dissatisfied he referred the 
complaint to our service, explaining that he felt Santander had not done proper checks when 
increasing his overdraft limit and that this had contributed to his difficulties as well as the 
charges that were being applied.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty by August 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from August 2016. 
By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr P was in no position to sustainably repay 
what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Santander ought to have realised that Mr Ps use of his overdraft was 
unsustainable. From May 2016 Mr Ps statements show evidence of significant gambling, 
and in May and June 2016 Mr P increased his overdraft limit 14 times. I think this pattern of 
increased borrowing and excessive gambling should have caused Santander serious 
concerns regarding how Mr P would manage his account going forward. 
I note that Mr P was able to briefly repay his overdraft a few months later, but that seems to 
have been only because he had some wins from his significant betting, this was not a 
sustainable way to manage his account. 
With all this in mind, I think it ought to have been apparent to Santander in August 2016 that 
there was a significant risk Mr P might have struggled to sustainably repay what he already 
owed, and that he was also at significant risk of spiralling into further debt. So Santander 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr P with 
forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ps 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Santander Bank UK Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman