DRN-2763692
The complaint
 Mr W complaints that Lloyds Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it refused to make a
payment for him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 March 2021. Ive set this out below. 
These were my provisional conclusions, subject to any further comment or evidence I 
received from either part.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction is an attempt to
misappropriate the money. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it might also be expected to make reasonable enquiries including 
but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment instruction.
Against that, the bank has a contractual duty to execute a valid and proper order to execute
its customers instruction. If it doesnt do so promptly, its liable for any consequential loss to
its customer. This is essentially the basis of Mr Ws case.
Here, Mr W had money deposited with Lloyds. He instructed it to make a payment to his
account with S. Lloydss fraud detection systems flagged the payment for further verification
checks. That doesnt in itself amount to a reasonable belief of fraud or unauthorised use. Its
simply a trigger that puts the bank on inquiry, causing it to put a block on the account
pending further checks. Thats what Id expect a responsible bank to do and it would be
wrong if I were to say that Lloyds was acting unreasonably in having such a process in
place. But this isnt the end of the matter.
When Mr W telephoned, he was put through to the banks fraud department - theres a
recording of that call. I think this call is material to this dispute and as such I have listened to
it carefully. I have invited Lloyds to do the same.
When the call begins the advisor explains that the payment has been flagged for some
additional checks. The advisor then proceeds to asks Mr W several security questions to
confirm hes the genuine account holder. What I have noted here is that Mr W doesnt fail to
confirm his identity. He answers all but one of the questions connected to his identity without
hesitation and then completes an additional question to replace the one he couldnt answer,
along with confirming where the payment is going (to S). So, I think Lloyds was wrong to
have concluded when it investigated that Mr W failed to confirm his identity to it. He did  in
fact the bank goes onto discuss the transfer with him, so it was satisfied he was its
customer.
Its also clear from the call Mr W becomes frustrated. Hes keen to get the transfer
completed as soon as possible having already attempted it online. I appreciate his frustration
seems to be compounded by the security questions. But the bank needed to verify his
identity - it needed to be satisfied it was talking to him and not a fraudster or someone else.
But once this was established, the question of whether Lloyds reasonably believed this was
a valid instruction being given by Mr W was addressed. The key issue is then what  if any 
grounds Lloyds had for declining to execute his instruction.
Listening to the telephone conversation, its clear that the bank takes this decision because
Mr W refuses to answer the question, whats the reason youre making the payment? But
did that give Lloyds reasonable grounds for believing that Mr W was being defrauded or
scammed?
Lloydss position is that it had to ask this question to safeguard against the possibility that Mr
W wasnt victim to a scam or fraud. And I absolutely agree that it is entitled and should ask
the question. We see instances where the bank hasnt made any enquires at all and the
customer has fallen victim to a fraud or scam where this could have been picked up. But in
having verified it was talking to Mr W  confirmed where the money was going (to his
account at S) and then asked the question whats the reason youre making the payment?;
Mr W doesnt say anything in any of his responses to suggest theres something suspect
about the transfer. Mr W doesnt wish to answer that last question and hes entitled not to.
I consider it was important that Lloyds gave Mr W some explanation and context about why it
asked such a question. I havent seen anything in any of Mr Ws responses to have caused
alarm or concern. But its apparent that because Mr W wasnt willing to tell the advisor the
purpose of his payment, the advisor is not prepared to authorise the payment. He doesnt
attempt to explain why that information might be needed against the background of scams.
Nor has the bank offered any persuasive evidence that it had a reasonably held belief that
Mr W was being scammed. I think here it would be difficult to draw this inference from a
refusal to answer the question alone.
I accept Mr W was impatient and frustrated in the call but hes not abusive. Overall, I dont
think Mr W has been treated fairly. As part of my review, I put these observations to Lloyds,
and it said Mr W terminated the call so it couldnt have done anymore. I agree Mr W ended
the call. But he only did so once the advisor had said he wouldnt allow the payment if he
didnt answer the question.
Considering all of this, I think Lloyds should compensate Mr W. In his initial submissions he
thought that hed lost interest in the region of £450-£500. So, as part of my review Ive
looked at the interest payable on the 95-Day Deposit account (Mr W has provided proof he
had the account open) and Ive considered the date on which the block was removed. The
interest payable was 1.8 per cent annually and the information Ive seen from the bank
shows that the block was removed on 23 September 2019. In my view, once the block was
removed there was no longer a barrier to moving the money.
So, I have estimated the lost interest on £50,000 for around two months (when the block was
on) to be £150. I also think Mr W experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of
what happened, and its noted that he didnt fail to confirm his identity. In my view, I think
Lloyds should pay him some additional compensation to reflect the impact this had. I believe£250 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This makes a total compensation
payment of £400.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC
to pay Mr W £400 compensation (the figure of £400 is inclusive of £150 for the lost interest).
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision except to deal with a query from me. But Mr 
W did. He was pleased I had looked at his case with diligence. He said he was largely happy 
with the outcome. However, he didnt think my proposed award went far enough in reflecting 
the impact this had on him. In summary, he said:
He couldnt understand why the loss of interest wasnt the same amount (£350) as 
his wife had earned on her 95-Day deposit account. He felt he should be awarded 
the same;
He wasnt aware Lloyds had removed the block on 23 September 2019 because it 
hadnt notified him. He wanted to understand why they had removed the block when 
nothing had changed;
He was dissuaded from trying to attempt the transfer again; and 
There wasnt enough emphasis in my decision about the fact that Lloyds had 
returned the cheque and failed to tell him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusions as those set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why. 
Mr W provided a letter from the provider with whom he held his 95-Day deposit account. This 
said you can top up your account at any time. So, while theres no doubt in my mind that 
Lloyds actions prevented Mr W from making the original deposits, based on the available 
evidence I think he could have topped up his account once the block had been removed. 
This happened on 23 September 2019, so I have only awarded a loss of interest up to this 
point, as opposed to a longer period. I note that Mr W has said that he didnt place close 
attention to this, however the information is clearly on the letter from his provider, so I am 
satisfied it was there for him to note. 
Mr Ws says he couldnt have known when Lloyds removed the block  it didnt tell him and 
given what had happened he was dissuaded from attempting the transfer again. Ive thought 
about this, but I feel he could have reasonably followed this up with B, particularly if he 
wanted (and it was important) to use the money in his account for the intended purpose. 
Lloyds also told him in its final response letter that restrictions remained on the account and 
he could visit a branch or call the bank to discuss these further. 
As the block was finally lifted on 23 September 2019, this feels the fairest point at which to 
calculate the loss of interest up to. I dont think what prompted Lloyds to eventually remove 
the block has a bearing on the outcome of this complaint or the level of redress. At the heart 
of this complaint is how Lloyds dealt with Mr W when he tried to make the payments. Mr W makes the point that there hasnt been enough emphasis in his view on Lloyds not 
paying his cheque. I take his point. However, I would like to reassure him that I did think 
carefully about all the circumstances here.  And in my opinion whether it was a transfer or 
the cheque, the banks actions ultimately stopped the original payments. Ive found Lloyds 
responsible and at fault for what happened in the way it went about things. If I havent 
commented in any detail its because I dont think it alters the overall position in relation to 
my analysis of the situation and findings. 
  
Ive reconsidered Mr Ws comments about the level of the award. I understand he feels this 
is low. But I remain of the view that its fair in relation to what happened and the impact it 
had, taking into account the compensation payment is also intended to cover lost interest. 
In conclusion, having regard for everything Ive seen and heard, I dont think Lloyds treated 
Mr W fairly. So, I am upholding this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay to Mr W 
£400 compensation (the figure of £400 is inclusive of £150 for the lost interest).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman