DRN-3181617
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his motorbike insurer MCE Insurance Company Limited 
because when he paid it an additional premium, it didnt clarify in writing what that was for or 
that his monthly payments would still be taken to deal with the original premium amount. And 
he complained that when he looked on line for a new policy, he found one that was  over 
£500.00 less than the total that he had paid to MCE.
What happened
Mr C had cover for motorbike A. The cost for this was £558.00 (£318.95 for the insurance 
premium and a fee of £239.34) and there was a charge on top of that of £106.00 for paying 
for the cover by eight monthly instalments. Mr C paid a deposit with the remainder of the 
premium to be paid by eight monthly instalments. Three months later Mr C told MCE he 
needed cover for motorbike B instead.  MCE told Mr C that it would change the policy for him 
but this would incur an additional cost of £432.59 (broken down as £392.59 for the premium 
and a £40.00 administration fee). Mr C paid that amount and MCE confirmed his monthly 
instalments would remain in place, being taken from his account as before. 
A few months later Mr C realised a monthly payment was being taken from his account by 
MCE. He called it and was advised this was because the £432.59 he had paid before was an 
additional sum for insuring motorbike B. Mr C said he couldnt believe that and noted he 
hadnt received any new policy documents or any details to confirm what this charge had 
been for. He also noted that he had recently looked for other cover for motorbike B and he 
was receiving quotes at £660.00, so, he said, about £500.00 less than the total MCE was 
saying it had charged him. MCE said prices vary and he had agreed on the phone to the 
additional payment. It noted that it had told Mr C that his monthly payment would remain. 
Mr C didnt agree and complained to us.
Our investigator felt the call content was key and that Mr C had been told this was an 
additional premium amount. Whilst she had asked Mr C for evidence of the quoted prices 
he had received elsewhere, he didnt provide anything to her. Overall, she felt MCE had 
done nothing wrong. Mr C was unhappy. He noted again that hed seen no paperwork to 
show what hed paid for and said he couldnt understand how a price could change so much.  
The complaint was passed to me for consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why, months after he paid for additional cover, Mr C became unclear about 
what he had paid and why. I note that MCEs paperwork, issued after the change of vehicle, 
didnt reflect the total charge for the premium MCE required. Ideally MCEs paperwork would 
have reflected that somewhere. But the total charge isnt going to show in the payment plan 
document  as that only shows the premium that is subject to the payment agreement  and 
that was for only the original premium based on motorbike A. The additional premium, which 
became due when Mr C changed the motorbikes to covered from A to B, was paid for 
upfront and never became subject of the payment plan. And the certificate of insurance for 
motorbike B doesnt include premium prices.  So when Mr C noticed payments had still been 
coming from his account, and he reviewed the policy documents, there was nothing to 
remind him of the detail of the call he had had with MCE where the additional charge was 
explained to him and paid.
But that doesnt mean MCE did anything wrong by asking Mr C for the additional payment, it 
doesnt mean the validity of that charge reasonably comes into question. And nor does the 
fact that Mr C found lower priced quotes for the same bike after hed noted that MCE was 
still taking payments from him and it had clarified (again) why that was. Prices do change 
over time, and there can be a significant difference in prices depending on how an insurer 
views a policyholder. If the policyholder is seen as a new customer, as I understand was 
likely the case when Mr C ran the further quotes, that can generate a very different price to 
that for existing customers  which is how Mr C was viewed when MCE checked what the 
additional premium would be when he changed his motorbike. Prices also vary between 
insurers. I also note that Mr Cs total premium cost for motorbike B, other charges and fees 
aside, via MCE was about £710.00 (£318.00 being the original premium, plus £392.00 
additionally for the new bike)  only a difference of £50.00 from the quote Mr C says he 
found for £660.00.
I know Mr C would like to see a breakdown for the charge of £432.59. That he wants to 
understand why it was charged, what for and why it is different to the prices he found (which 
I note he hasnt actually provided us with the evidence of). But insurers dont share 
information like this with policyholders. The way insurers price cover is a matter for their 
commercial judgement and is, therefore, confidential information. MCE has shared with us 
some detail about the pricing and I can see that the risk Mr C and his motorbikes presented 
was viewed differently initially to how it was seen when Mr C asked to change the cover to 
his new motorbike. In short, a change in risk often generates a different premium. And Mr C 
was charged an additional premium, which reflected that change in risk.
By the time Mr C realised monthly payments were still being taken by MCE, he had clearly 
forgotten the conversation he had with it when he changed his motorbike. But, having 
listened to a recording of the call, I am satisfied that at the time Mr C asked to change his 
cover and was told what that would cost, MCE was clear with him that the payment he made 
to it whilst on the call that day, of £432.59, was in addition to his monthly payments. The 
operative talking to Mr C even said he wanted to be clear with Mr C that his monthly 
payments would continue so that Mr C wasnt surprised by this later on. Therefore, I dont 
think MCE did anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against MCE Insurance Company 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman