DRN-3066857
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the decision made by Santander UK Plc (Santander) not to pursue a
chargeback.
What happened
Mr H bought furniture and was to pay £3,000 in three instalments to the furniture company
(the company). He paid the first instalment of £600 to the company in January 2019 using
his VISA debit card. He paid the second instalment of £450 in March 2019 by bank transfer.
Mr H did not receive the furniture and has told us he tried to resolve this directly with the 
company. He called Santander in March 2020. He requested that they raise a chargeback
for the money. Santander agreed to raise a chargeback in respect of the card payment and a
fraud claim in respect of the bank transfer. Santander sent the disputed transaction form for
the card payment to Mr H which he returned in March 2020.
Mr H called Santander in May 2020 and was unhappy to find out they had not pursued the
chargeback. Santander wrote to Mr H about the bill payment and explained that they had
reviewed and declined the claim as it was regarded as a civil matter.
Santander sent a second letter about the card payment and didnt uphold the complaint.
They said they sent a second disclaimer which had not been responded to. They also said
they considered it to be a civil matter.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Santander agreed with the view, but Mr H
didnt. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
On 20 August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
The card payment
A chargeback is a way for customers to challenge certain card payments via their 
bank. In this case its run by VISA and the chargeback is subject to their specific 
rules. Banks arent under a formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. But this 
services view is that it is good practice for a bank to try and process a chargeback if 
there is a reason to.
Mr Hs goods were not provided, and this is one of the reasons that a chargeback 
can be made and which was considered by Santander. Mr H believes he was within 
the time limits because he contacted Santander within 540 calendar days. I 
appreciate he feels strongly about this.
Ive checked the VISA chargeback rules and note disputes of this nature must be 
brought within either 120 days from the transaction processing date or 120 days from 
the last date of expected delivery (providing its not more than 540 calendar days 
from the transaction date). For Mr H, this meant the chargeback needed to be raised 
within 120 days of the last expected delivery date, providing this wasnt more than 
540 days from the transaction processing date. Therefore, Santander reasonably 
considered this time limit and discussed it with Mr H during the phone call in March 
2020.
Mr H says he was verbally given different delivery dates but has not been able to 
provide correspondence to show this. Ive listened to the phone call in March 2020 
and can see Mr H explained this to Santander. However, Mr H sent Santander a 
copy of the invoice for the goods which estimated delivery by April 2019. Based on 
the information on the invoice, Santander said he was outside of the time limits when 
he contacted them in March 2020. I appreciate what Mr H has said about agreeing a 
different date for delivery, but it was reasonable for Santander to consider whether 
the evidence theyd been provided demonstrated this for the purposes of raising the 
chargeback.
Santander have also explained that Mr H only made partial payment and a third 
instalment was due before delivery. Ive reviewed the rule and I can see this would 
make a chargeback claim invalid providing the company were still willing to deliver 
the goods. Mr H has explained he agreed with the company that he would pay the 
final instalment on delivery. But I cant see Santander were provided evidence to 
support this.
I note Santander say they sent a second disclaimer which was not responded to. I 
can see they asked for the date Mr H expected to receive the goods and copies of 
correspondence. Mr H says he didnt receive this. And I cant say exactly what 
happened, but Im satisfied on balance it was sent by Santander because Ive seen a 
copy and it was referred to in their investigation notes. Therefore, its clear Santander 
felt they needed more information in order to raise the chargeback claim.
I would still expect Santander to consider whether its appropriate to raise a 
chargeback based on what they were told by Mr H over the phone and what he 
initially provided. Our investigator has also put Santanders questions to Mr H during 
the investigation and he has been provided with an opportunity to provide evidence. 
The investigator put Mr Hs response to Santander, but it didnt change their position. 
And I cant say this was unreasonable as there was little evidence provided to 
support raising a chargeback.
In addition to this, Santander say they considered raising the chargeback after Mr H 
told them that the company went into administration. Mr H says he contacted 
Santander when he found out the shop had closed. He provided Santander with an 
article from January 2020 which detailed the sudden closing down of the shop.
However, Santander say there is no evidence the company itself is in administration. 
Ive reviewed the information on Companies House, and I can see that the latest 
record shows that there is currently a temporary suspension on the strike off process. 
During our investigation, Mr H has also been provided with the companys details and 
has confirmed he has been in contact with them. So, this information doesnt 
persuade me that a chargeback should have been raised.
Having reviewed everything, I can appreciate Mr Hs disappointment that a 
chargeback wasnt raised. But Santander are not obligated to raise a chargeback and 
I can see they reasonably considered the evidence they were provided by Mr H. And 
Im not convinced the decision they made was the wrong one. This is because there was limited evidence to support a successful chargeback claim. For example, Mr H 
didnt provide evidence to Santander about the last date he expected the furniture to 
be delivered or that he agreed to pay the final instalment upon delivery of the 
furniture. Therefore, I cant say Santander did anything wrong here.
I also note that Mr H says he was told by Santander they would pay him the £600. Its 
not unusual for banks to offer to credit the account with the disputed amount. And 
then if the chargeback isnt successful, the bank will take the money back. Ive heard 
Santander offered to credit Mr Hs account during the call in March 2020. As the 
evidence doesnt show me the chargeback was likely to have been successful, Mr H 
wouldnt have been entitled to keep the money even if Santander had credited the 
account. So, I dont think Santander have done anything wrong here.
The bank transfer
The second instalment was made by bank transfer and not by card payment. Bank 
transfers do not have the same protection as card payments, and it was not possible 
for Santander to raise a chargeback.
However, Mr H thought the company defrauded him. In order to try and get the 
money back, Santander contacted the merchant bank (where the money was sent) 
and raised a fraud claim. It was not successful because Mr H had authorised the 
payment. Santanders actions to try and get Mr Hs money back were fair and 
reasonable. They tried to raise a fraud claim and I dont think they could have done 
more in the circumstances.
Mr H is also unhappy Santander treated his request as a fraud claim when he wanted 
them to raise a chargeback. He says this was not explained and this was a route they 
decided to take. Ive listened to the call Mr H had with Santander on 9 March 2020 
and agree he requested a chargeback. However, Mr H also said he believed the 
company acted fraudulently. This is a view he has also expressed to us. Therefore, it 
was sensible for Santander to consider whether the transaction was fraudulent. And 
as they were unable to raise a chargeback here in respect of this payment, Im 
content they acted reasonably.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
I did not receive a response from Mr H. And Santander responded to say they had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. And Im not persuaded Santander did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Laura DeanOmbudsman