DRN-4363089
The complaint
Mr O complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for a transaction he 
said he hadnt authorised.
What happened
At the start of January 2023, Mr O contacted HSBC. He said that he hadnt authorised a 
£9,350.00 payment from his account on 16 December 2022.
Mr O told HSBC that on the night of 15/16 December, hed been out with friends to a 
restaurant, nightclub and party. He believed his drink had been spiked, as he became 
unconscious for around three hours, and didnt remember anything during that time. Mr O 
said he suspected someone had taken his phone, which was protected by Face ID, and had 
used it to make the transaction. He said that when he became conscious again, hed been 
given his wallet and had checked it briefly, and said his cards seemed to be there. Mr O 
collected his phone which was on charge in the room. 
A £9,350 payment was made from Mr Os HBC account to a company using banking on his 
mobile phone, at 7.58 am on the morning of 16 December.
Mr O said he got home about 9.30am. He says that later that same day he realised that his 
HSBC debit card, and a credit card with another organisation, werent there. But he didnt 
report the missing card to HSBC at that point on 16 December. When he did ring HSBC in  
January, he also said hed been burgled on 31 December, which he believed that was 
connected with what had happened on 15/16 December. Mr O also changed his evidence to 
HSBC on a later phone call, saying hed been intoxicated, not that his drink had been spiked.
HSBC refused to refund Mr O. It said that Mr O was required to keep his personal security 
credentials secure, and not share them with anyone. Mr O had confirmed on the phone call 
that he hadnt shared his details. HSBC said that because of the multiple levels of security 
which were built into mobile banking logon process, and the information Mr O had provided 
on the phone call, it wasnt likely that his security details could have been used by anyone 
without Mr Os knowledge.
Mr O wasnt satisfied and complained. In HSBCs final response to Mr Os complaint, it set 
out that Mr O had said his phone had been stolen, and that someone had used his Face ID 
to log onto Mr Os online banking and had made the payment without Mr Os knowledge. Mr 
O had said the phone had then been given back to him and he hadnt realised a payment 
had been made.
But HSBC said that the transaction had been carried out using Mr Os security credentials 
and there had been no security breaches. So it was extremely unlikely that any third party 
had made the payment. And it said again what it had said in its previous letter  that 
because of the multiple layers of security built into HSBCs mobile banking logon process, it 
wasnt likely that Mr Os security details could have been used by anyone without Mr Os 
knowledge. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He sent a long letter about what he said 
had happened, and he said that he wasnt liable and the transaction must be refunded. He 
said that HSBC had detected and blocked a different fraudulent debit card transaction for a 
much smaller amount, and that another financial organisation had detected other 
transactions about the same time  which Mr O said meant that HSBC should have stopped 
the transaction and must now refund it. He also said that if this service were to find that he 
had authorised the transaction, the payment would constitute an Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) and if so, HSBC would have to refund him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. She said that Mr Os testimony and his 
version of events were inconsistent in relation to being intoxicated or that his drink had been 
spiked. Hed said his phone wasnt on him but nearby. The investigator said she couldnt see 
how a third party could have got through multiple layers of security to carry out the 
transaction.
The investigator also pointed out that the disputed transaction took place on 16 December. 
Mr O had been logging in to his mobile banking regularly  but he didnt report it until 
January. She said shed have expected Mr O to have reported it sooner, especially as it was 
for a large amount. So she didnt think the payment had been made without Mr Os 
knowledge and consent.
Mr O wasnt satisfied. He said he was shocked by the investigators comment that under the 
Payment Services Regulations, hed be liable for payments hed authorised, and that 
payments counted as authorised if the payer has correctly authenticated and consented to it. 
He said that Face ID could easily be used by a third party by the phone being shown to the 
face of a person who had no knowledge of what was going on because they were 
intoxicated. He said he was shocked and the investigator hadnt understood or read his 
statement, because his phone was sometimes on him and had then been taken from him. In 
reply to the investigators comment that shed have expected him to report it sooner, Mr O 
said that there had been many fraudulent transactions on both his HSBC account and his 
account with the other financial organisation.
Mr O also said that if the payment was deemed to have been authorised, he was entitled to 
a refund as he fell victim to a scam while intoxicated and under duress or coercion. So he 
said he was entitled to a refund.
Mr O asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, 
Ive seen the technical evidence which shows that the disputed transaction was correctly 
authenticated technically. So the issue for me to consider is whether its more likely that Mr 
O authorised the disputed transaction himself and is liable, or that a third party did so without 
his authority.
Mr Os version of events has changed over time. He first told HSBC that his drink had been 
spiked and he was unconscious, and a short time later changed that to say hed been 
intoxicated. This is important for Mr Os credibility. Its also relevant because the disputed 
transaction was carried out on the phone which Mr O had registered to his HSBC account  and the log-in was protected by Face ID. Im not persuaded that if Mr Os drink had been 
spiked and he was unconscious, that Face ID would have worked. But Mr Os later version, 
that hed been intoxicated, still doesnt explain why the Face ID test was passed, because I 
also dont consider Face ID would have worked if Mr O had been asleep or had his eyes 
closed. So the fact that Mr Os phone was used, and Face ID was correctly passed, makes it 
very likely that Mr O knew about and consented to the transaction. Other security was also 
passed in relation to the setting up, and making, of the disputed payment on Mr Os account. 
Mr O told HSBC that he didnt tell anyone else his security details. So Im not persuaded that 
a third party carried out the disputed payment.
If a third party had, as Mr O suggests, somehow carried out the disputed transaction, I cant 
see why that person would have stopped at one £9,350 transaction when there were more 
funds available in Mr Os account.  Nor can I see why the third party would have returned Mr 
Os phone to him. Its much more likely that theyd have kept the stolen phone and tried 
further transactions.
Ive also looked at the other activity on Mr Os account. He logged in to his phone many 
times around and after the disputed transaction on 16 December. He logged into his online 
banking many times around and after the disputed transaction. So hed have been aware of 
the transaction. If Mr O hadnt authorised the disputed transaction, Id have expected him to 
contact HSBC urgently as soon as hed next logged on and seen the transactions on his 
account. Its not plausible that hed have waited more than a fortnight, even allowing for 
Christmas, before doing so.
So I find that its more likely than not that Mr O authorised the disputed payment himself.
Finally, Ill deal with Mr Os other points. This decision relates solely to Mr Os complaint 
about HSBC. It isnt relevant to my decision what may or may not have happened with Mr 
Os account with another organisation, as that doesnt form part of his complaint against 
HSBC. And the fact that HSBC later blocked a different transaction doesnt change my 
opinion about whats most likely to have happened with the £9,350 transaction. Indeed, if Mr 
O had genuinely suffered fraudulent transactions on another account elsewhere, Id have 
expected him to be even more likely to have reported the disputed transaction to HSBC 
more promptly. 
After Mr Os claim was turned down, he changed his evidence again. As Ive set out above, 
he said that if he was deemed to have authorised the payment, he was entitled to a refund 
as he fell victim to an APP scam. An APP is a type of authorised scam where the payer 
completes the necessary steps to consent and ultimately authorise a transfer of money, for 
example using a Faster Payment which was used here, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations. But Mr Os evidence all along to HSBC was that he hadnt authorised 
the payment himself. It isnt credible for him to change that at this stage, and to say instead 
that yes he had authorised the payment himself but he was forced to do so by a third party. 
So I dont accept that what happened here was an APP scam. 
So I consider that whats most likely to have happened is that Mr O carried out, and 
consented to, the disputed payment himself. So HSBC doesnt have to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman