DRN-4123152
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc placed a block in his current account, and returned 
two cheques when they were presented after the block had been placed.
What happened
In August 2022, Santander identified it was required to obtain additional information so that 
Mr D it could continue to operate his account. Santander says it attempted to contact Mr D 
several times but wasnt able to make contact with him until after his account had been 
blocked. Mr D did provide some information to Santander in late 2022, but this was in 
relation to another matter. When two cheques were presented to Mr Ds account they 
werent paid as the account was blocked. Mr D complained to Santander.
Santander explained it had tried to contact Mr D in August 2022, but when it was 
unsuccessful it wrote to Mr D in September to tell him the account would be blocked. 
Santander explained this is why the cheques hadnt been paid and told Mr D it still needed 
proof of his address and tax residency - and that it needed to speak with him to obtain other 
information before the block could be released. Santander provided Mr D with a contact 
number to call and apologised that when Mr D raised his concerns by telephone hed been 
passed to several departments and had been cut-off. Santander credited Mr Ds account 
with £25.
Mr D brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator said that because Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) regulations require Santander to regularly carry out checks and request 
information and documents from customers, and Mr D hadnt provided what Santander 
requested, it didnt do anything significantly wrong when it blocked the account. The 
Investigator thought that the apology and the £25 Santander had paid to Mr D for the poor 
service it provided when he tried to call it in January 2023 was a fair and reasonable remedy.
As Mr D didnt agree with the Investigator the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided that the apology and £25 Santander has already provided to Mr D 
is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances of this complaint. I will now explain 
why, and I will address some of Mr Ds ongoing concerns.
Although Mr D has held accounts with Santander for a number of years hes only used his 
current account a few times over recent years, and he has lived outside of the UK for a 
number of years too. In 2018 the FCA told Santander  and other UK financial organisations 
- to conduct ongoing customer due diligence measures to maintain a relationship with a 
customer, including reviewing existing records to keep documents and information up to 
date. As part of this process, Santander attempted to contact Mr D on the telephone 
numbers registered on his account. Santander has provided records that persuade me it 
made several attempts to call Mr D to obtain updated information, but these were 
unsuccessful as some numbers were invalid and Santander was unable to leave a message 
on Mr Ds current mobile. Santander blocked the account after failing to contact Mr D.
Mr D is concerned that Santander didnt communicate with him through his on-line banking 
account, but Santander says it wouldnt do this because of security concerns, and that it tries 
to contact customers in case cases like this by telephone so that it can complete 
identification and verification. I dont think Santanders process here is an unreasonable one 
if it has concerns about the security on an account.
Later in 2022, when two cheques were presented to Mr Ds account, they were returned 
unpaid because of the block on the account. Santander wrote to Mr D to tell him of this, but 
most likely caused some confusion by telling him hed stopped the cheques. I dont think this 
was helpful. However, when Mr D called Santander to discuss what had happened, Mr D 
was told that Santander required the following from him to allow it to unblock the account:
Proof of identity  passport or driving licence
Proof of address/residency  in English
Mr D to contact Santander on a specified number to answer a number of other 
questions
Mr D provided a valid passport, but this didnt show his current address as it was issued in 
the UK. Mr D also provided a copy of his visa and non-UK driving licence, but Santander 
couldnt accept this as it wasnt in English. Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me Mr D 
contacted Santander on the telephone number it provided so that he could answer further 
questions before it could consider unblocking the account. I appreciate Mr D had issues with 
recording his non-UK postcode on the on-line link Santander provided at the time, but 
Santander had told Mr D to call a specific number as it required further information. 
Santander has confirmed this could have been fixed if Mr D had called the number provided, 
so I dont think the postcode matter is the reason why the accounts remained blocked.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account make it clear that in respect of dormant 
accounts  where there have been no transactions in the last 12 months  Mr D would be 
required to present personal identification at a local branch. Or, Mr D could call the 
telephone number provided, which is the same of the number Santander provided to Mr D in 
the telephone call Ive referred to earlier. The terms and conditions of the account also state 
that a customer must be permanently resident in the UK to use the account.
Ive seen that Mr D provided some evidence to Santander in late 2022, but this related to his 
tax status, and Im not persuaded this has anything to do with the initial blocking of the 
account two-months earlier. Regardless of this, Santander required more than just tax 
information from Mr D to unblock the account. The account was blocked because Mr D had 
used the account infrequently and Santander hadnt been able to contact him on the 
telephone numbers registered to his account. 
Santander wrote to Mr D in April 2023 to tell him it intended to close his account in two 
months. Mr D says that hes provided the documents Santander requested and feels that 
leaving his account open when he uses it infrequently is futile. Santander has confirmed that 
because Mr D hasnt called the number it asked him to and provided all the documents it 
required, the account was closed in late July 2023. I cant tell Santander it should have 
unblocked the account - that is a matter for Santander to decide. However, it seems to me that Santander took reasonable steps to tell Mr D what was required to unblock the account, 
and this was in line with the terms and conditions on the account.
Taking all of the above into account, it seems that Mr D believes he provided the documents 
to satisfy Santander of his identity and his address. However, although Mr D provided some 
documents, Ive not seen that Mr D called Santander as it requested. Santander told Mr D he 
needed to do this in a telephone call in January 2023. The terms and conditions of the 
account explain that Santander can give 60-days notice to Mr D of its intention to withdraw 
banking facilities in these circumstances. So, I dont think Santander did anything 
significantly wrong when it closed Mr Ds account after it had provided a 60-notice in April 
2023. Regardless of Mr Ds failing to contact Santander by telephone the terms and 
conditions also explain the account couldnt be used if Mr D was permanently resident 
outside of the UK. 
Although I appreciate Mr Ds communications with Santander on the telephone in January 
2023 were inconvenient, Im satisfied that the apology Santander provided, along with a 
payment of £25, was fair and reasonable remedy in this respect. Mr D believes Santander 
should also compensate the payee of the cheques  a family member. However, in this case 
the family member isnt an eligible complainant, and I can only consider the impact of any 
poor service on an eligible complainant  in this case Mr D.
My final decision
Ive decided that as Santander UK PLC has already paid Mr D £25 to settle the complaint, 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, I wont ask Santander UK PLC to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman