DRN-3439763
The complaint
Mr R has complained, as director of a company, which Ill refer to as H, about Drayton Ins. 
Limiteds service in connection with Hs motor fleet insurance policy. 
Provisional decision
 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 April 2022. For ease Ive copied the relevant extracts 
from that provisional decision below. I said:
What happened
Please note what follows isnt a comprehensive timeline but a summary of what I see as 
being the most significant events leading to Hs complaint.
H is a courier company which operates a fleet of vans. Drayton is an insurance broker and 
intermediary which acted as agent for H in connection with Hs fleet policy.
In 2019 Drayton helped to arrange a new three-year policy for H. The policy was 
administered on behalf of the insurer, by a company Ill call D, with the assistance of another 
insurance intermediary Ill call T.
The policy required that all vehicles covered by the policy had to be registered with the 
Motor Insurance Database (MID), which is the central record of all vehicles insured in the 
UK, in line with the relevant legal requirements. I understand that the relevant law requires 
all temporary vehicles held for more than 14 days to be registered on the MID. So, to comply 
with the law, vehicles held for less than 14 days didnt need to be registered on the MID.
However, D later asked that all vehicles be added to the MID regardless of how long they 
were in Hs possession for.
The policy also had an endorsement which said:
The premium for this insurance having been calculated upon information supplied by the 
"Insured" regarding the vehicles described in the "Schedule" it is a condition precedent to 
liability that the "Insured" shall on the expiry of 3 Months from the commencement of this 
Insurance and of every 3 Months thereafter supply to "us" a statement showing details of the 
additional vehicles Insured or those deleted during the preceding 3 months.
In practice that meant that at the end of each quarter, H  via Drayton  had to submit a list 
of vehicles which required cover for the previous three months. The list was generally 
referred to as the quarterly declaration although it was occasionally referred to as the 
spreadsheet or schedule. On receipt of that declaration D would calculate whether or not it 
needed to adjust the premium based on the number of vans covered in the previous three 
months as set out on the declaration.
Drayton initially advised H that only vans in its possession for more than 14 days needed to 
be entered on to the MID. But it said that all vehicles requiring cover needed to be entered 
on to the quarterly declaration. Amongst other things Drayton said this about the quarterly 
declaration in an email to H when the policy was taken out:
Ultimately is [sic] its [Mr Rs] responsibility to ensure all changes are declared 
Draytons operative went on to say
I dont want to be in a position when we have a claim and the vehicle has not been declared 
to underwriters on the spreadsheet
Mr R replied:
Received loud and clear
In November 2019 when the first quarterly declaration was due, Drayton asked Mr R to 
complete the quarterly declaration. It reminded him that
All vehicles need to be listed, even if just for a day in case there was an issue.
After receiving the first quarterly declaration T wrote to Drayton to advise that there were 
some discrepancies with it. Two vans on the declaration didnt appear on the MID. And two 
vans which did appear on the MID werent included on the declaration. Drayton was 
reminded that the MID is not proof of insurance and that notification of a vehicle change on 
the MID does not constitute notification to D that the van required cover.
After D received the second quarterly declaration T wrote to Drayton. Drayton passed the 
email to Mr R. T said D had identified a number of discrepancies between the entries on the 
quarterly declaration and MID, with four vans showing on the MID that werent on the 
declaration and four vans on the declaration that werent showing on MID. T included a 
reminder that adding a van on the MID didnt constitute notifying D for cover purposes.
In May 2020, T contacted Drayton. It said D had been notified of a claim, from an incident in 
January 2020, involving a van which hadn't been included on the previous quarterly 
declaration. It said that as the declaration had been processed and the van wasnt on it then 
Ds underwriters wouldnt indemnify the claim.
As the next quarterly declaration fell due Drayton sent a spreadsheet to Mr R. It asked him to 
check it carefully and to make all updates where required.
The following month, June 2020, T notified Drayton of 21 discrepancies with the most recent 
quarterly declaration. These were generally vans showing on the MID but not on the 
quarterly declaration or of vans being on the quarterly declaration that weren't on the MID. T 
again included a reminder that adding a vehicle to the MID wasnt proof of insurance nor 
did it constitute notification to the insurers that the van required cover. Drayton passed Ts 
email on to Mr R.
Some weeks later T contacted Drayton again. It said that a claim notified to it in May 2020, 
following an accident in April 2020, involved a van which hadn't been included on the most 
recent quarterly declaration. It said that, as with the earlier incident from January 2020, as 
the van wasnt added to the declaration, D didnt offer indemnity for the claim. It said that the 
forum for making amendments to cover was the quarterly declaration and not the MID. 
Drayton rang Mr R to discuss it. Draytons note of that call said Mr R acknowledged hed 
made a mistake with the vehicles and that he would deal with the third partys claims himself. 
The call note said Mr R knew that the quarterly declaration needed to be accurate.Prior to the policy renewing in August 2020, Mr R confirmed that H would be paying the third 
parties for the two claims from January and April 2020. And Drayton told H that D had 
insisted on the MID being updated with each vehicle change regardless of how long it was in 
Hs possession for. In an email to H concerning the renewal Drayton made these two points 
in the same email:
insurers do want me to update MID as well as the quarter Declaration, to ensure everything 
is covered
but went on to say:
Any vehicle you use/hire etc is covered, I do however have to just update MID.
Shortly after, Drayton contacted Mr R again because D had reminded it that H would have to 
deal with the third party insurers itself to cover the claim from April 2020.
Later that month, as the last quarterly declaration from the previous policy year fell due, 
Drayton emailed Mr R and said:
the declaration is when we declare it was a swap or loan etc, as long as on MID it will be 
covered
In October 2020 another of Hs vans was involved in an accident. The van was deemed a 
total loss. D handled the claim both for the total loss of Hs van and also for a claim from the 
third party.
The following month Drayton sent Mr R a request to complete the first quarterly declaration 
following the policy renewal. Drayton said:
Please remember the MID needs to match the Dec[laration] so all changes, temp additions 
etc and permanent additions to be declared
Drayton also copied part of an email from T to it, which was in red ink, saying:
Please be aware that once the declarations are submitted, D[] are unable to accept any 
addendums, therefore vehicles added after may be deemed as not on cover, it is therefore 
imperative that the declarations are wholly correct.
And Drayton itself added in bold type:
So please double check it before sending over.
It wasn't until January 2021 that Drayton submitted the next quarterly declaration. After it had 
done so T notified it D had identified that there were five of Hs vans registered on MID which 
hadn't been declared on the recent quarterly declaration. One of those was the van involved 
in the claim from October 2020, which D had settled Hs claim for in November 2020.
Drayton forwarded the email to Mr R. It said that all swaps and amendments needed to be 
added to the declaration. But it said that it would argue that anything added to the MID that 
wasnt on the declaration was an admin error.
Around a week later T contacted Drayton. It said D had received three claims against the 
policy for incidents in October and November involving vans not included on the previous 
quarterly declaration. That included the van involved in the claim D had already settled. It 
said that as the vans werent on the declaration, there was no cover for the claims. It repeated that vehicles being added to the MID are not proof of insurance. And these vans 
were added to the MID but not to the quarterly declaration. That meant that as the vans 
werent declared, H didnt pay a premium for them, so the claims wouldnt be covered. 
Drayton replied that Mr R had explained that he thought because the vans had been added 
to the MID he didnt need to declare them and only needed to declare swaps. Drayton said 
Mr R thought that D would check the MID. Drayton said it was a simple oversight and H 
would be happy to pay any additional premium that was due. Draytons operative said he 
wouldnt add vans to the MID if he thought they wouldnt be insured.
Drayton suggested that H should amend and resubmit the previous quarterly declaration. T 
replied that entry on the MID wasnt proof of insurance. It also said that it wasn't Ds policy to 
amend declarations once theyd been submitted. Drayton forwarded the emails to Mr R.
Drayton then made amendments to the previous quarterly declaration, adding five vans to it. 
Drayton asked Mr R to check it and, having done so, submitted it to D asking it to amend it. 
T replied that the window to submit the quarterly declaration had already closed.
T contacted Drayton again as the next quarterly declaration was due. It said that once the 
declaration was submitted D wouldnt accept any amendments. So vans added afterwards 
may not be covered. It stressed the importance of getting the declaration correct. Drayton 
forwarded the emails to Mr R, similarly stressing the need to report all changes.
In March 2021 D emailed Drayton and said that as there was no cover for the van involved in 
the October 2020 incident, H would need to repay to it the sums it had paid out to settle the 
claim. Drayton replied that it had sent in a revised quarterly declaration so indemnity 
shouldnt be an issue. Drayton then emailed Mr R confirming it had revised the quarterly 
declaration; that it had declared all vans to the MID, and that it didnt anticipate any problems 
once resolved. It reminded Mr R that all changes needed to be added to future declarations.
Three days later Drayton emailed Mr R again concerning the next quarterly declaration. It 
reminded Mr R that all changes needed to be declared.
Later that month D emailed Drayton. It said that a van involved in an incident in 
November 2020 wasnt included in the relevant quarterly declaration and so the incident 
wasnt covered by the policy. Drayton then emailed T asking it to intervene with the 
underwriter.
The next day Mr R sent an email to Drayton about the quarterly declaration. He said he 
hated doing it because D always finds something wrong.
Around a week later T sent Drayton an email. It said D had refused to provide cover for the 
three vans involved in accidents in October and November 2020 because they werent 
added to the relevant quarterly declaration. It said H would need to repay the amount 
underwriters had paid out for one of those incidents in October. Drayton replied that neither it 
nor H agreed with that decision and H wished to complain about it. Drayton repeated that all 
vans had been declared to the MID, that H had an insurable interest in each of the vans and 
that updating MID should count as notification to the insurer of a vehicle change. Drayton 
added that at all times Mr R had acted honestly and fairly and offered to pay an additional 
premium to rectify the issue.
On 30 May 2021 D replied to Hs complaint about the refusal to provide cover for some 
claims. Amongst other things it said that inconsistencies in vehicles added to the quarterly 
declarations had been a long running issue dating back to the first one. It said that in 
April 2020 it had been notified of an incident from January 2020 for a van not covered by the 
policy. Soon after the next quarterly declaration was submitted and at that point it noted that 
15 vehicles had been added to the MID but not declared and that soon after it received 
another claim for a vehicle not declared. It said that by the end of the first policy year underwriters had received five claims and three of those were for vehicles not declared. It 
said that the forum for declaring vehicles is through the quarterly declaration and following 
each of those premiums are adjusted. It said it was not required to provide cover for vehicles 
not declared. It said it had reminded Mr R on a number of occasions that adding a vehicle to 
the MID was not proof of insurance.
Mr R then complained directly to Drayton. He said hed been told that vehicles in Hs 
possession for less than 14 days didnt need to be added to the MID. Hed advised Drayton 
of all vehicle changes and the vehicles concerned were on the MID at the time of loss but 
that D was not indemnifying two claims, so H had a financial loss. Drayton replied that it had 
informed Mr R in May 2020 that D required all vehicles needed to be added to the MID 
because of an inconsistent declaration history. It said that regarding the specific claims Mr R 
referred to, the underwriters had noted that the vehicles were added to the MID but were not 
on the quarterly declaration, a process which Mr R had been reminded about on many 
occasions and that adding a vehicle to the MID is not proof of insurance. It said that Drayton 
had acted in Hs interest, Mr R had been told of the conditions for vehicles to be covered and 
the reason for any losses were not because of anything Drayton had done.
Mr R brought Hs complaint to us. Amongst other things he said that Drayton didnt tell him 
that vans he'd told Drayton about  to add to the MID  werent automatically added to the 
quarterly declaration. One of our investigators looked into it. He initially said he didnt think 
Drayton had done anything wrong. But, after reviewing the matter, said Drayton hadn't done 
enough to stress the importance of adding all vehicles to the quarterly declaration. So he 
said it should contact D and tell it that it was because of Draytons mistakes that the 
declaration process wasnt followed by H.
Drayton didnt agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hs complaint about Draytons service spans a period covering almost two years. During that 
time there were numerous events and points raised. I've considered every point made and 
everything on file carefully. But in this provisional decision I dont intend to refer to each 
event and point made. Instead my analysis below will focus on what I see as being the key 
issues at the heart of the complaint.
Further, Mr R has also complained, on Hs behalf, about the actions of D on behalf of the 
policy underwriter. But as I'm dealing with that complaint under a separate reference 
number, I dont intend to make any findings about the actions of the underwriter in this 
provisional decision.
It seems that Mr R, on Hs behalf, believed that it was Draytons responsibility to ensure that 
the quarterly declaration was accurate. Mr Rs position is that he was only required to notify 
Drayton of vehicle changes, so that Drayton could update the MID appropriately, and then it 
was Draytons responsibility to compile the quarterly declaration. He said he was unaware 
that vehicles he was telling Drayton about, so they were covered, werent automatically 
being added to the quarterly declaration. The implication being that it was Draytons 
mistakes that led to the insurer refusing to indemnify H for some claims. But, while there 
were undoubtedly times, which I refer to below, when Drayton sent some mixed messages, I 
dont think the evidence supports Mr Rs standpoint.Before the policy began Drayton sent Mr R an email setting out a summary of how the policy 
operated noting that all vehicles needed to be declared on a quarterly basis. And Drayton 
said:
Ultimately is [sic] its [Mr Rs] responsibility to ensure all changes are declared.
And Mr R replied.
Received loud and clear
But while Mr R said he understood  loud and clear  that responsibility for the quarterly 
declaration rested with him at the outset, by the time he complained he only believed he had 
to declare vehicles to Drayton, rather than to check the accuracy of the quarterly declaration 
himself. But I'm not persuaded by Mr Rs argument. If that was the case its not clear to me 
why Mr R believed that Drayton sent him the quarterly declaration to complete or check, with 
many reminders that all vehicles needed to be added to it. Similarly, if the responsibility for 
the quarterly declaration lay with Drayton and not Mr R, then why didnt he ask Drayton why 
it repeatedly asked him to complete the quarterly declaration? If Mr R genuinely believed 
that was Draytons responsibility alone then I would have expected to see repeated evidence 
of why it was asking him to do it. But I havent seen that evidence.
Further, even if Mr Rs understanding was initially incorrect  that he wasnt required to put 
all vans on the quarterly declaration as he thought Drayton would do it  that should have 
changed before the policy renewed in August 2020. Thats because, by that time D was 
refusing to provide cover for two claims, from January and April 2020, because vans werent 
added to the quarterly declaration. And I understand Mr R dealt with the third party insurers 
himself and paid those claims, on Hs behalf. So Mr R must have known at that point at 
least, that if a van wasnt included on the quarterly declaration, even if hed told Drayton 
about it for MID purposes, then it was unlikely D would provide cover for it.
It follows that, even if Mr R hadnt understood the process initially, after hed had to deal with 
third party claims himself, I would have expected him to be reasonably aware that he needed 
to ensure that all vans had to be on the quarterly declaration and that Drayton wasnt doing 
this. And, if Mr R thought that D had refused cover, and he had to deal with the third party 
claims because of mistakes by Drayton with the quarterly declaration, I find it difficult to 
understand why he didnt take that up with Drayton at the time. Indeed at one point he 
commented that he hated completing the quarterly declaration because D always found 
something wrong with it. So if he didnt think he needed to complete it  because that was 
Draytons role  its not at all clear why he carried on doing something he hated without 
taking it up with Drayton at the time.
Further, I can see Drayton reminded Mr R of the requirement to update the quarterly 
declaration with all vehicles on a number of occasions including: 18 November 2019, 
18 May 2020, 19 November 2020, 7 January 2021, 18 January 2021, 15 February 2021, 
1 April 2021, and 22 April 2021. So I'm not persuaded that Mr R could reasonably believe 
that it was Draytons responsibility and not his to ensure the accuracy of the quarterly 
declaration.
Also, Ive seen that Drayton passed on notifications from D or T which said that all vehicles 
needed to be declared and/or that updating the MID didnt count as notifying the insurer for 
cover purposes on a number of occasions. So I think Drayton did enough to tell Mr R that it 
was his responsibility to complete the quarterly declaration and that it needed to be done 
accurately.That said, there were times when Drayton sent Mr R messages that were anything but clear 
and occasionally they were positively misleading. For example in August 2020 Drayton told 
Mr R that as long as vehicles were on the MID then they were covered, when that plainly 
wasn't the case. It was the quarterly declaration that was where vehicles needed to be 
added  as well as the MID  to ensure cover, simply adding a vehicle to the MID did not 
confirm cover. So on that occasion Draytons advice wasn't appropriate. Similarly, in 
September 2020 Drayton sent Mr R an email which, while saying that every vehicle needed 
to be declared, also said that, from the insurers point of view, if a vehicle was on the MID 
then it was covered. The implication being that vans only needed to be added to the MID to 
be covered, when the emphasis should have been on the quarterly declaration. So I think 
that, at times, Draytons advice wasnt helpful.
But, given that Drayton had reminded Mr R previously and subsequently to those messages, 
that he needed to include all vans on the quarterly declaration, I dont think it would produce 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint for me to conclude that Mr R could rely only 
on these inaccurate messages. Its also not clear why he didnt query why hed had to pay 
claims on Hs behalf previously because vans werent included on the quarterly declaration.
Also, in Draytons message of 19 November 2020 it told Mr R that the quarterly declaration 
was due, that it needed to match the MID and that all changes needed to be added to it. 
Drayton added a paragraph taken from an email from T which said, in red ink:
Please be aware that once the declarations are submitted, D[] are unable to accept any 
addendums, therefore vehicles added after may be deemed as not on cover, it is therefore 
imperative that the declarations are wholly correct.
Further, Drayton added in bold type that Mr R needed to double check it to make sure it 
was accurate.
I think that is clear advice from Drayton that vehicles which were on the MID but not on the 
quarterly declaration may not be deemed to be on cover. But Mr R omitted three vans from 
the list on the next quarterly declaration, all of which were the subject of claims. However, 
Drayton had reminded Mr R when sending the quarterly declaration for him to complete that 
it needed all the vehicles to be added and it was his responsibility to double check. So the 
fact that Mr R had already informed Drayton of changes to vehicles  in order to add those to 
the MID  didnt mean that they were automatically on the quarterly declaration.
So, while Drayton did give some mixed messages, I don't think that overall it had given Mr R 
the impression that it would take responsibility for the quarterly declaration, or that Mr R had 
discharged his duty in respect of that simply by notifying Drayton of vans to be added to the 
MID. It follows that  when considering all the evidence  I dont believe that Drayton dealt 
with H unfairly. It follows that Im not planning to instruct it to take any further action.
Ill add that Mr R wanted Drayton to approach its commercial liability insurer about his 
complaint. But whether or not a firm approaches its liability insurer is a matter for the 
policyholder alone, in this case Drayton, to decide. So Drayton was under no obligation to 
approach its liability insurer simply because Mr R wanted it to.
Developments 
Drayton accepted my provisional decision, Mr R didnt. He made comments both in writing 
and in a recorded phone call. He said that he wanted to stress that he didnt have any 
expertise in insurance matters, wasnt familiar with the terminology used, and he relied on 
the professional advice of Drayton who he was paying  on Hs behalf  for that advice. He said if hed been made fully aware of the declaration process properly I would not have 
proceeded with the policy. 
Mr R also pointed out that he had no direct contact with D or T and that all his 
communications with them was via Drayton. He said that his previous insurer only required 
him to add or remove vehicles from the MID and he thought the same process would apply 
with this policy administered by D. 
Mr R copied some correspondence to us making comments where he believed that they 
supported his arguments. Ive summarised the key points below. 
Mr R also said that although hed asked Drayton to send him a copy of its file he hadn't 
received it. So he said it was difficult for him, without seeing the documents I'd remarked on, 
to comment on many of the points I made in my provisional decision. In response to that 
point we sent Mr R copies of the relevant documents I had referred to in my provisional 
decision. Mr R then provided some more remarks about the contents of those. I dont intend 
to summarise those comments individually here but will address his key points below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision.
Mr R has made comments on a number of specific entries, mostly in emails from or to 
Drayton. I think its important to note that I had seen and considered all the emails Mr R has 
commented on before I came to my provisional decision, so none of the evidence Mr R has 
presented is new to me. 
Mr Rs told us that if Drayton had made him aware of the quarterly declaration process he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the policy. Clearly I wasnt there when Drayton and Mr R 
discussed how the policy would operate and their relative responsibilities when doing so. But 
I have seen the email where Drayton set out that ultimately Mr R would be responsible for 
the entries on the quarterly declaration. Something Mr R said he understood loud and 
clear. So it would appear to me that Mr R did understand the process at that point. 
Mr R referred to an email Drayton sent shortly after the policy was incepted. Draytons 
operative indicated that he (Draytons operative) only needs to update the MID with 
permanent changes and vehicles which are with H for more than 14 days. And he had to do 
that each quarter. He said that he would keep a record. Similarly, Mr R has highlighted 
comments from other emails where Draytons operative said that it was his responsibility to 
do something such as send the declaration or keep a record of changes to vehicles H was 
using. Mr R said this is evidence for why he believed that it was Draytons responsibility to 
record and declare vehicle changes to D as part of the quarterly process. But, while I 
understand Mr Rs argument, I dont find it persuasive. 
It is the case that it was Draytons responsibility to send the quarterly declaration. And, as is 
common with such commercial fleet policies, the policy underwriter or its administrator 
doesnt deal directly with the insured business (in this case H) and instead deals directly with 
the insured business appointed agent, which in this case is Drayton. So it would always be 
Drayton that would communicate directly with D. That means it would be Drayton that would 
physically go through the process of updating the MID or sending the emails etc containing the quarterly declaration to D. But that didn't mean that Drayton was ultimately responsible 
for the content of the quarterly declaration. 
And, the first email Mr R cited in support of his argument was sent by Drayton only three 
days after Mr R had confirmed loud and clear that he understood it was his responsibility 
for the content of the quarterly declaration. I dont think the email Mr R refers to indicates 
that process had changed. Similarly, I dont think that simply because Draytons operative 
said that he had to do something like send a spreadsheet to D meant that it was his 
responsibility for the content of that spreadsheet. Thats particularly the case because, on 
many occasions, Drayton reminded Mr R that he needed to check any details already 
entered. 
Further, while I'm aware that the process for ensuring cover for each vehicle in Hs fleet had 
been different for its previous insurer, I've seen no evidence beyond Mr Rs comments, that 
the process would be the same for the policy D administered. In fact I'm satisfied that 
Drayton made the quarterly declaration process clear in its emails at the start of the policy. 
And it highlighted that it didnt want to be in a position where a vehicle wasnt covered 
because it hadnt been added to the quarterly declaration.
Mr R has also referred to other emails from Drayton, including those I specifically referred to 
in my provisional decision where Drayton gave poor advice. For instance where it said that 
as long as vehicles were on the MID they were covered. As I said in my provisional decision, 
some of Draytons comments were certainly unhelpful. But I havent asked it specifically why 
it made those comments, not least because the operative who made its unhelpful or 
sometimes curious comments no longer works for it. However, as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I think Drayton made it clear to Mr R on numerous occasions what the appropriate 
process was. Drayton was clearly aware of the correct process and had explained it to Mr R. 
And if he didnt understand initially then he reasonably should have done after he was 
required to pay, on Hs behalf, two third party claims prior to the policy renewing in 
August 2020. Mr R didnt explain in his reply to my provisional decision why, if he didnt 
understand that process at that time, he hadn't queried with Drayton the requirement for H to 
pay those claims if the vans should have been covered. 
Mr Rs pointed specifically to an email Drayton sent to T in January 2021 in which Draytons 
operative said that, going forwards, he would check the quarterly declarations to ensure their 
accuracy. Mr R sad this is evidence that he hadnt deliberately omitted to do anything and is 
also evidence of Draytons negligence. 
But I dont think Drayton ever said or implied that Mr R had deliberately omitted anything 
from the quarterly declaration. In fact Drayton clearly fought Mr Rs corner in that respect. On 
a number of occasions it argued to T and/or D that omissions from the quarterly declarations 
were simply human error or mistakes and that Mr R was happy to pay any additional 
premium on Hs behalf. 
I also dont think this email points to any evidence of negligence by Drayton. It sent the email 
shortly after D had said it wouldnt cover a number of claims from October and 
November 2020 because vans hadnt been on the quarterly declaration. And the context of 
the email exchanges is one in which Drayton, while arguing on Hs behalf that D should 
cover the claims, was saying that these were simply errors. Indeed Draytons operative said 
that hed spoken with Mr R who accepted hed made an error, but that was all it was. And it 
appears to me that Drayton was offering a solution, that it would check the content of the 
quarterly declarations going forwards, to prevent a recurrence of such an error. And I think it 
did so in the hope that D would then cover the claims, in the knowledge that, with Draytons intervention, the mistakes wouldnt happen again. I dont see this as any evidence of 
negligence on Draytons behalf. 
As a matter of completeness Mr R asked us if we could provide him with a copy of the call 
recording in which Drayton noted that Mr R accepted hed made a mistake. We did ask 
Drayton for this before I arrived at my provisional decision but it told us that as the call had 
been made on its operatives mobile phone no recording was available. 
Mr Rs also referred to an earlier comment from Drayton where it suggested sending in a 
revised quarterly declaration to include the vans that had been omitted from the previous 
declaration. Mr R said this implies that Drayton were updating the declaration itself. But this 
email was part of the exchange after D had refused cover for some claims. And its apparent 
to a neutral observer that Drayton was trying to find a method to persuade D to change its 
mind and offer cover for the claims it had refused. And the method Drayton was proposing 
was for it to revisit the previously submitted declaration and update it with the vans 
previously omitted. So I dont think its fair to interpret this email as evidence that it had been 
Draytons responsibility to complete or update the declaration before then.
Mr Rs also pointed to another email from Drayton to T in which he again indicated that Mr R 
hadnt realised he needed to add all vans to the quarterly declaration because he thought D 
would check the MID. Drayton said that Mr R now realised that he must declare all vehicles, 
and Drayton added we now realise we have too. Mr Rs interpreted this as 
acknowledgement from Drayton that it didnt understand the process and was liable for not 
adding vehicles to the quarterly declaration previously. Similarly he said that another email 
from Drayton to T, in which Drayton referred to the process for other insurers to confirm 
cover was to check the MID entries. Mr R said these emails are evidence that Drayton didnt 
understand the process itself and that it had assumed that it would be the same as with 
other insurers Drayton dealt with. Mr Rs said that if Drayton didnt understand the process 
then it couldnt reasonably advise Mr R of what that was, but I dont agree thats the case. 
I can't be certain exactly why Draytons operative made the comments referred to in the para 
above. But its plain from all the other evidence on file that Draytons operative was aware of 
the correct process and that hed reminded Mr R of it on a number of occasions. Doing 
things like telling Mr R, in bold print, to double check the accuracy of the quarterly 
declaration before sending it to Drayton. So I dont think the content of the emails Mr R 
referred to above is evidence that Drayton didnt understand the process. 
Mr Rs also referred to an internal email in which Draytons operative asked a colleague to 
update Draytons own spreadsheet with some recent vehicle changes. Mr R says this implies 
that Drayton were recording the changes and so it should have been checking those on the 
quarterly declarations. He said he had assumed Drayton was doing this on the 
declarations. I think its worth pointing out that this email was sent two months after Drayton 
had told T that from now on it would check the entries in the declarations. So it seems it had 
started to do that. But its not clear why Mr R had assumed Drayton previously accepted 
responsibility for the quarterly declarations. As I said both in my provisional decision and 
above, Drayton had on a number of occasions reminded Mr R that he needed to check the 
accuracy of the quarterly declaration. So, if he assumed Drayton was doing this its not clear 
why he didnt ask why he had to do it.
Also, Mr R still hasnt explained why, if he thought responsibility for the accuracy of the 
quarterly declaration rested with Drayton, he had been required to pay, on Hs behalf, the 
third-party claims for two accidents in January and April 2020. If he felt those claims were 
only not paid because of an error by Drayton in completing the quarterly declarations then I 
would expect to see some evidence of him raising that point with it. But theres no such evidence and Mr R hasnt suggested he raised that point with Drayton at the appropriate 
time. So I don't think its fair to conclude that Drayton had misadvised Mr R about where the 
responsibility for the accuracy of the quarterly declaration rested. 
Mr R has also referred to an email in which Drayton told him that the insurer had noted the 
addition of two specific vans. There was an attachment to the email which was a MID report. 
Mr R said that if the insurers had already noted the additions then why would [he] declare 
them again and that the different terminology is difficult to understand. By that I take it that 
Mr R means the difference between adding a van to MID or adding it to the quarterly 
declaration. But the email Mr R refers to was sent in March 2021 two months after the 
insurer had told him that it would not pay the third party claims for incidents involving vans 
that hadn't been added to the previous quarterly declaration. And, by then, Mr R had been 
told on a number of occasions that adding vans to the MID didnt mean the insurer would 
cover them if they weren't also added to the quarterly declaration. So I think Mr R should 
have been aware that the process contained two distinct steps: updating the MID and also 
completing the quarterly declaration with all vans which required cover. 
Mr R has also said that hed notified all vehicle changes to Drayton. And that the MID was 
always up to date. But, apart from the fact that D noted more than once that MID wasnt 
always up to date, Drayton made clear on a number of occasions that the key thing for the 
purposes of insurance cover was the accuracy of the quarterly declaration. And it was the 
quarterly declaration which Drayton told Mr R, in bold print, to double check. So I don't think 
Mr R could reasonably believe that simply telling Drayton of vehicle changes, without adding 
them to the quarterly declaration, meant those vehicles would be covered. 
Finally, in an email from Drayton to T, Drayton said it believed that if Mr R were to complain 
about Ds actions to our Service, that we would find in Hs favour. Mr R thinks this email 
supports Hs case. Drayton's comment was about whether or not we would uphold a 
complaint against the policy underwriter. I've issued a separate final decision not upholding 
that complaint. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to revisit my findings about the actions of 
the policy underwriter in this decision about Drayton. But, in any event, Draytons speculation 
about what decision we might or might not come to doesn't carry any evidential weight. I had 
seen the comment when reviewing the file and dismissed it as no more than the speculation 
it was. So it doesn't support Hs position.
In summary, as I said in my provisional decision, I agree that on occasion Draytons advice 
could have been clearer. But, on numerus other occasions it made clear to Mr R that in order 
for vehicles to be covered they needed to be included on the quarterly declaration and that 
this was Mr Rs responsibility. Something he indicated he understood even if he hated doing 
it. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Drayton responsible for any 
omissions from the quarterly declaration or the implications of that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman