DRN-3172637
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt set up an 
account in its name and so it cant now access a switching incentive.
What happened
S said that it was told it was eligible to switch its account to a different financial business and 
receive a switching incentive. But it didnt receive the incentive because the bank account 
was marked as being for a sole trader in the name of the director. S said that NatWest had 
admitted to making a mistake when it opened the account but hadnt responded when it 
asked for compensation of £4,000 for the missed switching incentive.
NatWest had issued a final response saying it had made a mistake and paid S £300. It had 
stated that this letter should be enough for S to qualify for the incentive. After S had referred 
its complaint to this service it said that the application it had processed was in the name of 
the director with a form signed on 1 April 2015. And that when the account was opened S 
hadnt been incorporated so the account could only have been for the director as a sole 
trader.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the original 
case handler at NatWest had provided a document dated 30 March 2015 about a know your 
business (KYB) discussion. That included the name of S. But the application progressed 
with a KYB review in the name of the director and not S or with any reference to a limited 
company. And the account was opened in his name. S hadnt been incorporated until two 
days after the account had been opened. Our investigator said that it was up to S and the 
director to change this later if needed. He said he had asked NatWest for recordings of any 
calls from that time, but it said it didnt have any other information to provide.
S didnt agree. It said that NatWest had been drawing things out and that this was 
unacceptable. It hadnt set up the account correctly and so S was unable to switch providers. 
It had chased this up and lost out on £4,000 as well as hours of wasted time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont draw any inference from NatWest not retaining calls or any other information from 
2015 as S expects. It isnt required to indefinitely. And S has also not provided any further 
information from that time to support that the account should have been in its name.
I wont be able to resolve exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
There was some discussion about an account for S and S was incorporated at around that 
time. I agree with our investigator though that NatWest wouldnt have been able to set up an 
account for a company that didnt exist. And nor could the now director have bound that 
company. 
The application form that was signed by this director on 1 April 2015 didnt refer to the limited 
company albeit that the company name was later based on his name. NatWest wouldnt 
have been able to carry our KYB checks on a business that didnt exist. And the check lists 
its provided were marked that confirming information at Companies House wasnt applicable 
which was the correct position at that time. I think its likely that NatWest instead offered a 
sole trader account to the director which from the forms Ive seen may have provided free 
banking for 24 months and a small overdraft. It likely would have been the intention that a 
company account for S be set up especially as thats how the business has since been 
trading. But that didnt happen at the time or subsequently and I think that was reasonably 
apparent to S.
So, I dont have a basis to find NatWest made a mistake in not setting the account up in the 
name of S. And so, it isnt fairly responsible for S not receiving a switching incentive. It did 
provide incorrect information to S in its final response which caused inconvenience and for S 
a loss of expectation. But it has paid S £300 in compensation in any event. In light of my 
findings I wont be requiring it to do anything further than this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that National Westminster 
Bank Plc need take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman