DRN-3988323
Complaint
Miss D has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with an unaffordable 
loan. 
Background
L2G provided Miss D with a loan for £2,000.00 in July 2022. This loan had an APR of 
355.2% and a 104-week (24 month) term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£6,463.60, which included interest, fees and charges of £4,463.60, was due to be repaid in 
104 weekly instalments of £62.15. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed with our 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ds complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss D would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss D wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss D would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Ds ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss D. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss D undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss D prior to 
providing her with her loan. It also carried out credit checks. These showed that Miss D had 
a monthly income of close to £1,200.00 a month and expenditure of just under £800. This 
left Miss D with enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But its clear that the payments for this loan 
would leading to a significant proportion of her income going towards credit commitments 
each month. Bearing all of this in mind and L2G wasnt confident in Miss Ds income 
declaration, I think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Miss Ds actual monthly 
expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Miss D with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Miss D
would have been unable to repay her loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Miss D would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Miss D could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss D was 
struggling to manage her finances. Her income was pretty much being used to meet her 
living costs and commitments to existing creditors. And she was continually overdrawn in the 
period up to this loan. Furthermore, it isnt immediately obvious to me how a loan on such 
disadvantageous terms would improve Miss Ds position either. So I think that proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have shown L2G that Miss D was unlikely to be able to 
make her payments without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss D would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Miss D was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other way.
Did Miss D lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Miss D paid and she is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss D
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Miss D by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss D made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If Miss D has 
already repaid more than £2.000.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss D;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss D to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ds credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman