DRN-4004455
The complaint
Mr W has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited mis-sold him his 
Local Government Additional Voluntary Contribution Scheme.
What happened
In March 2014 Mr W completed an application form to join the Prudential Local Government 
Additional Voluntary Contribution Scheme (AVC). Prudential didnt provide any advice to Mr 
W when he took out his AVC.
Mr W made no investment choice on his AVC application form, so Prudential wrote to him on 
27 March 2014 to tell him that his savings would be invested in the default investment choice 
for the AVC, which was the With Profit Cash Accumulation Fund. Mr W has not made any 
change to the investment of his AVC since it was set up.
Prudential also sent Mr W a key features document, and a Guide to Fund Options document. 
Mr W says that he also received a factsheet for Prudentials With Profit fund. 
Mr W says, in summary, that the annualised growth rate shown on the With Profit fund fact 
sheet was exaggerated, as it was more than the annual return that he has been receiving on 
his AVC. Mr W says that this is proof that his AVC was mis-sold to him as he was not given 
accurate information in 2014 which would have enabled him to make an informed decision at 
that time. 
Mr W spoke with Prudential by telephone on 5 October 2021 to discuss the investment 
returns that he was earning on his AVC.  Mr W says that during this telephone call he was 
told that the annualised return on his AVC was 6.8%, but Mr W says that he hasnt been 
receiving this level of investment return and now wants Prudential to pay him an annual 
return of between 6% and 7% on his AVC savings.
Mr W complained to Prudential in July 2022 that he had been mis-sold his policy and in 
October 2022 Prudential issued their response to Mr Ws complaint. Prudential didnt uphold 
Mr Ws complaint, so he asked that the Financial Ombudsman Service review his complaint.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service examined Mr Ws complaint. Their 
view was that Mr W hadnt been mis-sold his AVC as the documentation provided to him had 
explained that returns shown on the With Profit fund factsheet were not guaranteed.
Mr W didnt accept the Investigators view and asked for this complaint to be brought to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a copy of the AVC application form that Mr W completed in March 2014. The 
investment choice section wasnt completed. I therefore think that it was reasonable for 
Prudential to invest Mr Ws AVC savings into the default fund for the scheme.
Prudential wrote to Mr W to tell him that his AVC savings would be invested into the With 
Profit Fund, so that he was aware how his AVC was being invested. Mr W will have been 
able to change his investment choice since taking out his AVC, but has not done so to date.
When Mr W completed his AVC application he didnt receive any financial advice from 
Prudential. Nonetheless, Prudential still needed to provide Mr W with information so that he 
could make an informed decision on taking out his AVC.
Prudential provided Mr W with a key features document, and a Guide to Fund Options 
document. Mr W has said that he also received a With Profit fund factsheet.
I have seen a copy of Prudentials With Profit fund factsheet for 2018 and 2021. Whilst I 
have not seen a copy of the 2014 factsheet that Mr W says that he saw, the layout and 
information shown on the 2018 and 2021 factsheets are very similar to each other, and I 
therefore think it likely that the 2014 factsheet would have been similar to these factsheets.
The second page of the 2018 and 2021 factsheets sets out information about investment 
performance. Data is shown on past investment performance achieved by the With Profit 
Cash Accumulation Fund. Performance data is shown for 1 Year, 3 Year, 5 Year and 10 
Year time periods. 
Alongside this performance data is the following wording: The performance figures shown 
are overall annualised returns for contributions made on the dates specified. The returns 
include both regular and final bonuses added to a benefit paid at normal retirement date, but 
make no allowance for any applicable initial charges, allocation rates or early cash in 
charges (explicit charges). Final bonus may vary and is not guaranteed. The rate of future 
bonuses cannot be guaranteed. The value of an investment can go down as well as up and 
the fund value in the future may be less than the payments you have made. Please bear in 
mind that inflation will reduce what you can buy in the future.
Underneath the performance data the following information is also stated: The value of your 
policy will be sent out in your annual statement or is available on request. The value will 
depend on when you actually invested allowing for tax, charges and smoothing. The value 
could change by more or less than the underlying investment return of the overall fund. Past 
performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
I think that this is clear in explaining that the investment data shown in the factsheet was for 
the overall annualised return and included both regular and final bonuses and that future 
performance isnt guaranteed. 
Mr W has said that Prudential should have shown the annualised final and regular bonus 
returns separately, and not as a single combined figure. Mr W says that this is because final 
bonuses are not guaranteed, whilst the regular bonus returns that he has been receiving on 
his AVC have typically been around 1% per annum or less, so much lower than the total 
annualised returns shown on the fund factsheets. Mr W has said that showing the total 
annualised returns in the way Prudential did was misleading. 
However, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Prudential to only show data on the 
overall total historic annualised returns. They explained that this was what the data was 
showing and explained that final bonuses could vary and were not guaranteed. Prudential 
also explained that regular bonuses were not guaranteed and that the returns shown didnt make an allowance for any explicit charges.
Prudential also explained that past performance was not a reliable indicator of future 
performance. I therefore dont think that the factsheet was saying that the investment returns 
shown were guaranteed to be the same as those which Mr W would earn on his AVC. 
I have listened to a recording of the telephone conversation that Mr W had with Prudential on 
5 October 2021. Mr W says that during this telephone call he was told that the annual. 
investment return on his AVC is 6.8%. However, the Prudential representative that Mr W 
spoke to says that she has received this figure from the Prudential actuarial team, but she 
will ask the team to provide Mr W with an explanation of the investment returns that he has 
been earning on his AVC.
Mr W says during the telephone call that he wants to know what percentage return he has 
earned on his AVC. In response Prudential sent an email to Mr W on 25 October 2021. This 
email set out calculations which explained how Prudential had arrived at their figure of a 
6.8% return between 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020 for Mr Ws AVC. 
In these calculations Prudential used values for Mr Ws AVC which included a final bonus, 
but Prudential did explain each time that the final bonus was not guaranteed. I therefore 
dont think that the calculation Prudential prepared for Mr W was misleading.
Mr W also says it is unfair that the importance of the final bonus to overall returns means the 
investor cant really know how much their pension is likely to be worth until retirement, which 
is too late. Mr W also seems to be suggesting that this leaves the investor vulnerable to 
unfair practices in relation to final bonus rates. In response, I repeat the point I made earlier, 
which is that I cant unreasonably say Prudential gave Mr W an over-inflated view of past 
performance, or a misleading picture of how overall performance is derived. Its also 
important to note that the governance of with profits funds is closely monitored by the 
regulator, meaning providers cant treat investors unfairly when it comes to determining final 
bonuses.  
I therefore dont think that the information that Prudential provided in the With Profits 
factsheet was misleading. I also think that Prudential have set out calculations for Mr W and 
explained how they have calculated returns on his AVC. I therefore dont think that Mr W 
was mis-sold his AVC policy and I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman