DRN-2713525
The complaint
Mr C complains that he wasnt able to make a payment from his Santander UK Plc mobile 
banking app whilst abroad. This led him to incurring high call costs.
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Santander. In September 2020 he tried to set up a new 
payment recipient to pay a bill. He wasnt able to complete the process as the button he 
needed to press to complete it wasnt highlighted. Mr C said he tried the live web chat but 
wasnt able to get on to it to find out what was happening. He was abroad at the time and 
had to call Santander to find out what was going on.
During his first call with Santander he was told that if the button wasnt highlighted he 
wouldve missed something out. Santander made suggestions as to what this would be and 
it was concluded that Mr C hadnt put a reference in. He explained that this is something that 
shouldve been brought to his attention and Santander said that it would have been.
Mr C called Santander again soon after to complain that the live web chat wasnt working. 
He also said there wasnt a prompt telling him to complete all fields when setting up a new 
payment recipient. He complained that hed spent over £200 on calls to Santander to sort 
this issue out.
Santander explained that it had given incorrect information to Mr C about being prompted in 
the app to fill in all fields when setting up a new payment recipient. It paid Mr C £100 for the 
misinformation. But it did say it wouldnt compensate him for his call costs as there was no 
error made by Santander that meant Mr C couldnt set up his payment. The only reason Mr 
C wasnt able to complete his payment originally was because there was no reference, and 
the web chat service was working, so it concluded it was likely something wrong with Mr Cs 
device.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that its likely the reason Mr C wasnt 
able to make his payment was because he hadnt completed all the required fields. This was 
because the payment was made successfully after the first call with Santander, when Mr C 
was told this may have been the issue. The investigator also felt that Mr C had other ways to 
contact Santander rather than call, and that there was no evidence to suggest it was 
Santanders error preventing Mr C from accessing the web chat. He didnt think it would be 
fair for Santander to cover Mr Cs call costs. But he felt the £100 compensation was fair 
overall.
Mr C disagreed. He said he was told misinformation and the compensation doesnt cover the 
distress hes experienced from this. As he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Setting up the payment
Mr Cs first issue was that he was unable to make a payment that he needed to using his 
mobile banking app. He said there seemed to be an error and he wasnt able to submit his 
request. When he called Santander it told Mr C that it couldnt see an error. Ive listened to 
this call and Im satisfied Santander did what it could to resolve Mr Cs issue. It got in contact 
with the technical department who said that the only reason the button (to submit the 
payment request) wouldnt be available for Mr C is if hed missed out any details when 
completing the form. Mr C confirmed hed not put a reference in, and I can see the payment 
was later made with a reference, so Im satisfied there wasnt an error, but rather Mr C 
hadnt completed the form fully.
I have taken note of Mr Cs complaint that there was no prompt telling him a reference was 
required. But the form had fields to complete, and Mr C had missed one of these out. Ive 
also seen that hes set up a recipient before and used one letter as a reference, so I think its 
likely that Mr C was aware he needed to complete all fields. Either way, the phone call did 
resolve the issue. And I dont think there was an error from Santander - a reference is a 
requirement and Mr C hadnt completed all the necessary fields in the form. So I dont think 
Santander should pay for the cost of this phone call.
Mr C says he was provided with misinformation in this call. I heard that Santander told him 
that the form would have said he needed to complete all fields, but later said this wasnt the 
case. So I agree, he wasnt given accurate information. But I think the offer Santander has 
made for this is fair. The information he was given over the phone enabled him to complete 
the transaction and resolved the issue. Whether there was or wasnt a prompt at that point 
didnt make a difference because Santander had told him what he needed to know. But I do 
think Mr C wouldve been frustrated at being told hed missed a warning which wasnt there. 
And I think the £100 already paid by Santander is fair compensation to reflect this frustration.
Web chat not working
Mr Cs following calls were all in relation to being given misinformation in his first call. Ive 
already explained why I feel Santanders offer is fair for this. Mr C said he wasnt able to 
access the live webchat. Hes sent a video to show this and I can see that the chat appeared 
to have a loading symbol but nothing happened. However Ive not seen evidence to suggest 
this was Santanders error rather than an error at Mr Cs end. And I heard in the call that Mr 
C was given possible options as to what may fix it. I understand Mr C felt he had no other 
option but to call Santander to complain about the misinformation but I disagree. Mr C was 
able to contact Santander by email. And given the initial issue of making the payment had 
been resolved at this point, I think it was Mr Cs choice to continue to call Santander knowing 
how much it was costing from abroad. It follows that I dont think Santander should cover Mr 
Cs call costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Santander UK Plcs offer of £100 is fair and reasonable so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Charlotte WilsonOmbudsman