DRN-4460487
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as J, is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC defaulted its
Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Js complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr L.
What happened
J successfully applied to Metro for a BBL in June 2020 and received the loan funds shortly
thereafter. The terms of the BBL included that J would be contractually required to make
monthly payments of £898 to the loan from July 2021 onwards. The first scheduled payment
was made by J in July 2021, but the next payment  in August 2021  wasnt made,
meaning that Js BBL was in arrears from that point.
Mr Ls late wife, Mrs L, dealt with all the financial matters for J until she fell ill in August 2022.
Mrs L sadly passed away a few months later, in October 2022. This understandably
contributed to J not making the October 2022 BBL payment, as Mr L was left as the sole
director of J and was in the first stages of mourning at that time.
In November 2022, Mr L contacted Metro and informed them of Mrs Ls passing. Mr L also
arranged a six-month Pay As You Grow (PAYG) payment deferral plan and agreed to pay
£100 a month to clear the two missed payments that had occurred on Js BBL at that time.
Mr L made the £100 payment as per his arrangement with Metro in December 2022, but the
£100 payment in January 2023 wasnt made. This led Metro to issue a final demand to J and
to begin proceedings to potentially default Js BBL.
J appointed a new financial controller in January 2023, whom Ill refer to as the FC. On 26
January, when the FC became aware that the £100 payment for that month had been
missed, they contacted Metro and made a payment of £200 to cover the payments for
January and February. However, Metro had already defaulted Js BBL for non-payment at
that time. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Js behalf.
Metro responded to Mr L. But they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by following
their account arrears process which had resulted in the defaulting of Js BBL. Mr L wasnt
satisfied with Metros response, so he referred Js complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Metro had provided a
fair standard of service to Mr L, including that Metro didnt refer Mr L to their bereavement
team after being informed of the death of Mrs L. And our investigator also felt that, if Metro
had referred Mr L to their bereavement team and had applied appropriate forbearance in
consideration of the difficult personal circumstances that Mr L had faced at that time, that it
was more likely than not that the defaulting of Js BBL wouldnt have occurred.
Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint should be upheld in Js favour
and that Metro should remove the default and arrange a new arrears repayment plan with J.
And they also said Metro should pay £750 compensation to J for the inconvenience and
trouble it had incurred. Metro didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forward by our
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2023 as follows:
As an ombudsman, its always difficult when considering a complaint where the passing of a
loved one has sadly occurred. And this is particularly the case when the eligible complainant
is a limited company, as is the case here.
This is because this service considers complaints referred to us by limited companies in a
different manner to complaints brought to us by people in a personal capacity. For instance,
this service cant consider awarding compensation for upset and distress to a limited
company, because a limited company is a legal entity and not a person, and because only
people can experience upset and distress.
I highlight this point at the outset here because, sadly, Mr L has incurred a personal tragedy
 the loss of his wife  that has to be taken into consideration in any fair assessment of this
complaint. In my professional capacity I must remain conscious that the eligible complainant
here is J the limited company. However, Im also very mindful that the personal tragedy that
befell Mr L here will clearly and understandably have had an effect on Mr Ls ability to fulfil
his professional duties and obligations as a director of J.
Im aware that Metro feel that theyve followed an appropriate account arrears process and I
note that Metro did provide a degree of forbearance to J by accepting an arrears repayment
plan, rather than insisting on the clearing of the arrears in full. And I note that Metro only
moved to default Js account when a payment on the arrears repayment plan was missed.
Ultimately, however, I feel that the passing of Mrs L is and should be a significant factor
here. And it doesnt feel fair to me, in consideration of what happened, that Js BBL account
should be defaulted because a £100 arrears repayment plan payment was made late.
I also feel that the fact that Mr L appointed the FC for J demonstrates that he was aware that
he wasnt able to fulfil his professional obligations fully at that time. And Im satisfied that the
FC acted quickly to clear the £100 arrears as soon as they became aware of them.
Im also in agreement with our investigator that Mr L, when he spoke with Metro in
November 2022 and informed them of his wifes passing the previous month, should have
been referred by Metro to their bereavement team at that time. And I feel that had that been
the case, that the more personalised service the bereavement team may have been able to
provide to Mr L and to J could potentially have led to a different outcome here  one where
Js BBL wasnt defaulted by Metro.
In taking this position, Ive considered guidance issued by the Lending Standards Board
regarding vulnerable customers, which is as follows:
Firms will achieve this with systems and controls that are capable of assisting in
the identification of customers who are, or may be, in a vulnerable situation, and
having appropriate measures, training, referral points and skilled staff to deal
appropriately with the customer once identified.
I think a recently bereaved person is a vulnerable customer, and Im satisfied that thefollowing statements from the Lending Standards Board confirm that a director of a company
can be considered as being a vulnerable person.
The following Standards have been drafted to support Firms in identifying and
addressing situations where an individual within a business either is, or the Firm has
reason to suspect that they may be, vulnerable. These Standards can be applied to a
sole trader, partnership or to an individual within a limited company
Reference to an individual means a person who, when taking into account
information available to the Firm about the how the business is structured and
operates, is able to exert significant control over the way in which it is run.
Im aware that Metro feel that it was communicated to Mr L on phone calls in November
2022 how to reset Js online banking password so that Mr L could regain access to Js
account, and of the potential consequences if J didnt adhere to the arrears repayment plan.
But I feel its too simplistic to assume, following the passing of Mrs L, that Mr L was grieving
until he was not, and that his contact with Metro in November 2022 was an indication that he
was willing and able to resume his professional duties as Js director. Rather, I feel Mr Ls
situation and state of mind was likely to have been more complex here. And I reiterate that
by failing to refer Mr L to their bereavement team, I feel that Metro missed the opportunity to
manage this situation as fairly and compassionately as they reasonably should have done.
Because of this, my provisional decision is that Metro must reinstate Js BBL and allow any
unused PAYG options to be availed of by J. And Metro should also contact Mr L or the FC
and arrange a new affordable arrears repayment plan with them. Finally, Metro must remove
the default from Js credit reporting and instead report the BBL as though J had been in the
arrears repayment plan. And if its the case that J havent made payments in line with the
arrears repayment plan, following the defaulting of the BBL, the Metro should consider the
plan to have been suspended until a new arrears payment plan is agreed with J.
However, I wont be provisionally instructing Metro to pay any compensation to J for the
trouble and upset its incurred. This is because Metro had arranged an arrears repayment
plan with Mr L, and so had provided a degree of forbearance to J, and because it must be
acknowledged that Js BBL had been in a position of arrears for some time before the
passing of Mrs L, because of the missed payment in August 2021  although Metro appear
to have not acted upon those arrears.
All of which isnt to say that Im not appreciative of Metros position here. Indeed, I can
understand why they feel that theyve followed a correct process in defaulting Js BBL. But it
can be the case in certain circumstances that a process can be followed correctly but that
the outcome that results from that correctly followed process is unfair.
I feel that this is whats happened in this instance. But one of the functions of this service is
to assess a complaint impartially. And having done so I feel its fair and reasonable to say 
that Metro should have applied a greater level of compassion that they did here.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr L and Metro the opportunity to respond and 
provide any comments or objections they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue 
a final decision. Metro confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr L did not provide any response.As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Js favour on the basis described in 
my provisional decision letter above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Metro must reinstate Js BBL and allow any unused PAYG options to be availed of by J. 
And Metro should also contact Mr L or the Js financial controller and arrange a new 
affordable arrears repayment plan with them. 
Finally, Metro must remove the default from Js credit reporting and instead report the BBL 
as though J had been in the arrears repayment plan. And if its the case that J havent made 
payments in line with the arrears repayment plan, following the defaulting of the BBL, then 
Metro should consider the plan to have been suspended until a new arrears payment plan is 
agreed with J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman