DRN-2812072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)s handling of a 
claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.  
What happened
The background and subsequent developments to this claim are extensive. So, what follows 
is a summary of the key events relevant to my decision. But I want to reassure both parties 
that Ive read and carefully considered everything thats been provided.
In November 2016, Mr and Mrs Hs basement flooded. The flood was linked to tree roots 
blocking a service drain which caused the water to back up. 
Mr and Mrs H raised a claim with RSA who appointed a loss adjuster to assess the damage. 
It took around a month before the basement was emptied of water and for drying works to 
begin.
In February 2017 the loss adjuster arranged for a surveyor (E) to visit the property and draw 
up a scope of repairs. E assessed the damage which included cracking to rooms on the 
ground floor, and damage to the basement. In July 2017 the claim was reassigned to a new 
loss adjuster due to the overall value and likely cost of repairs.
In September 2017 Mr and Mrs H were told by the loss adjuster that the surveyor was 
preparing a scope of work for all other repairs associated with the leak from the defective 
drain. The scope was provided to Mr and Mrs H in January 2018 and they noticed that the 
repairs to the cracking on the ground floor had been excluded. They queried this with the 
loss adjuster but agreed the scope so that the repairs to the basement could start.
As the basement repairs neared completion, Mr and Mrs H chased the loss adjuster 
regarding the cracks on the ground floor. They were told that E felt the cracks were historic 
and not directly linked to the flooding, which is why they were excluded from the scope of 
repairs. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and provided further evidence to the loss adjuster to support their 
claim. The cracks were then monitored between May 2018 and December 2018 and 
deemed stable in January 2019.
The loss adjuster accepted liability for cracking in three rooms but excluded the cracks 
elsewhere in the property, saying they didnt believe these were linked to the flood. Following 
some discussion between the parties it was agreed that the remaining cracks would be 
covered by the claim, and Mr and Mrs H asked RSA to provide a contractor to do the repairs.
In May 2019, the appointed contractors provided Mr and Mrs H with the scope of repairs to 
the ground floor. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the scope and complained. They were 
concerned the repairs didnt consider the full extent of the damage, and of the overall time 
taken to reach this point of the claim. RSA provided a final response dated 4 June 2019 and 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had relied on Es findings to prepare the scope.
Mr and Mrs H arranged for their own surveyor (B) to review the damage and provided the 
report to RSA. The appointed contractors then revisited the property in September 2019 and 
provided an updated scope of works with increased repairs and costs. As a result, RSA told 
Mr and Mrs H that a further loss adjuster (S) would be required to visit the property and 
validate the costs.
In October 2019, S confirmed the additional costs and repairs and Mr and Mrs H asked for 
RSAs contractors to do the work. Mr and Mrs H tried to get a start date for the works but 
were told there were some final amendments required to the scope of works.
In December 2019, RSA told Mr and Mrs H that the works to the ground floor were excluded 
from the current claim as they were a result of heave. So, RSA told them a new and 
separate claim needed to be raised to deal with the damage under the relevant section of 
the policy, and by the relevant experts. RSA then closed the original claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with RSAs approach and raised a further complaint. They didnt 
agree the repairs should be split into two separate claims, or that they should pay a separate 
excess for dealing with the damage under the subsidence, heave, and landslip section of 
the policy when the damage had been previously assessed and agreed to be covered.
RSA said the excess for this part of the policy (£1,000) would be waived by way of apology 
for the delays caused. But it maintained its position that a separate claim needed to be 
raised and provided a further final response to the matter in April 2020.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with RSA and referred their complaint to our service. In summary, 
they asked us to consider:
The impact and additional burden of proving the insurable damage to the ground 
floor after initially being told it would be covered under one claim.
RSAs lack of action after being put on notice in 2018 that further works were 
required to the ground floor.
Whether RSAs decision to record the ground floor damage as a separate claim was 
fair.
The security and safety concerns caused by the lack of repairs to the ground floor, 
which included split window frames and de-bonded lathe and plaster ceilings.
The additional stress and pain that had been caused by the overall time taken by 
RSA to deal with the claim, which by this point spanned around three and a half 
years.
The overall mismanagement of the claim by RSAs loss adjuster and the tone of 
some of their communications.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that our service could consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim journey from November 
2016, because RSAs position substantially changed between its final response letters of 
June 2019 and April 2020.  Our investigator concluded it was reasonable for RSA to assign the ground floor damage to 
a new claim based on the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. But they concluded that RSAs 
actions had led to significant and unnecessary delays in the progression of the claim. And 
they concluded that there was sufficient evidence to put RSA on notice that the ground floor 
damage would likely need to be investigated under a separate policy section at a much 
earlier stage of the claim (around March 2018).
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Hs testimony about the impact this claim has had 
on their lives. They concluded it was both plausible and persuasive and that RSAs actions 
had caused them significant distress and inconvenience above what would reasonably be 
expected for a claim of this nature. This included the impact to Mr Hs health during the 
claim. So, in addition to waiving the £1,000 excess for the second claim, they recommended 
RSA pay Mr and Mrs H £4,000 compensation. 
Our investigator also recommended RSA reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the cost of Bs report, 
on the basis that had RSA addressed the ground floor damage correctly in March 2018, then 
Bs report wouldnt have been required.
RSA didnt agree. It said it hadnt been made aware of the points raised by Mr and Mrs H 
about the impact, distress, and inconvenience of the claim. And it felt that some of the points 
raised by Mr and Mrs H were outside of its control. RSA added that it didnt think it was fair 
or reasonable for our service to consider the full claim timeline as it said Mr and Mrs H 
couldve referred the matter to us sooner following its June 2019 final response. 
However, RSA did acknowledge the need to resolve the matter, and offered an additional 
£2,000 compensation as well as waiving the £1,000 excess for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept RSAs offer and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision, so the complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a decision on a complaint I usually consider matters as they stood at the time 
the business issued its final response to the complaint. Ive considered whether its 
impractical to do so here  for instance because the situation has moved on. But since no 
further evidence or information has come to light, Im satisfied I have everything I need in 
order to arrive at a relevant, and fair answer.
RSAs final response issued in April 2020 materially changed the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. RSA now agreed that further works were required when its previous final 
response in June 2019 didnt. And it upheld Mr and Mrs Hs concerns by offering 
compensation, as opposed to rejecting them in the previous final response. 
Im satisfied that whilst RSA didnt explicitly withdraw the referral rights from its June 2019 
final response, its actions mean that the referral rights it gave in June 2019 were implicitly 
withdrawn and replaced by the referral rights in April 2020.  
So to be clear, I will be considering matters from the point Mr and Mrs H first raised their 
claim in November 2016, to the point that RSA issued its final response in April 2020. Ill first consider RSAs actions in recording the damage under two separate claims. Ill then 
consider RSAs handling of the claim to determine whether its offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
Was RSAs decision to record two separate claims reasonable?
RSAs position is that a new claim was required so that the relevant specialists could assess 
the ground movement, validate the cause of the damage and the extent of its liability. Having 
considered the relevant policy terms, I think RSAs position is reasonable. I say this because 
the section of the policy under which Mr and Mrs Hs claim was accepted (cover 3) 
specifically excludes Damage to any part of the buildings by Subsidence cover 4, as a result 
of escaping water.
The policy further goes on to define Subsidence cover 4 as:
Subsidence or heave of the site on which the buildings stand or of land belonging to it, or
landslip. Subsidence means downward movement of the site on which your buildings stand 
by a cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves. Heave means upward and/or 
lateral movement of the site on which the buildings stand caused by swelling of the ground. 
Landslip means downward movement of sloping ground.
So, based on the policy terms I think it is clear that any ground movement which falls into the 
above definition under Subsidence cover 4 can be fairly excluded from a cover 3 claim.
I dont think this exclusion is unusual in relation to policies of this type. I can understand 
Mr and Mrs Hs point that the damage likely originated from the same proximate cause  the 
escape of water. And I can also see that RSA made enquiries with its contractors to see if 
this scenario could be avoided given Mr and Mrs Hs claim journey to that point. But 
ultimately it was agreed that the relevant specialists would be required to ensure that both 
the insured risk and cause of damage had been correctly identified, to validate the scope of 
works, and to ensure any repairs are effective and lasting. I dont find this approach 
unreasonable.
Ill factor the length of time it took for RSA to reach this decision into my consideration of how 
the claim was handled overall. But having considered the evidence, I dont find that RSA has 
acted unfairly by requiring the ground floor damage to be assessed under a separate claim 
under the policy.
Claim delays and handling
Ive considered that claims relating to escape of water/flooding and ground movement can 
be complex and will often incur delays whilst the parties determine the best way forward. 
And Ive weighed this up against RSAs obligations under the Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), specifically ICOBS 8.1, which states an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The present position is that RSA has accepted the claim shouldve been handled better  the 
loss adjusters comments indicate they accept the issue of the separate claim shouldve 
been identified at an earlier stage. As such RSA has offered a total of £3,000 compensation 
for its handling of Mr and Mrs Hs claim.So whats left for me to determine is whether our investigators recommendation for an 
additional £2,000 compensation (making a total of £5,000) is fair and reasonable.
Ive first looked at whether RSA was put on notice that a second claim may be required at an 
earlier stage. The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr and Mrs H raised concerns about the 
scope of repairs to the ground floor from around January 2018 which werent acknowledged. 
Mr and Mrs H followed this up with a detailed submission to RSA in March 2018, including 
photos of the cracking which Ive seen. And upon receipt of this evidence, I agree that this 
was most likely the point RSA shouldve realised that the ground floor damage needed to be 
investigated further.
I think some further uncertainty was introduced to the claim by the introduction of crack 
monitoring around May 2018 which lasted until December 2018. This type of investigation is 
generally associated with claims involving ground movement and shouldve been a further 
indicator to RSA that any resulting repairs would likely not fall under the escape of water 
claim. But the evidence suggests that the appointed loss adjusters (S) werent given the 
authority to investigate any potential ground movement. So, I dont think there was any way 
Mr and Mrs H couldve known how things would likely play out, as theyd been given no 
guidance from RSA to indicate a separate claim was needed.
RSA encouraged Mr and Mrs H to get their own report to validate the claim which they did in 
July 2019. Its clear from the evidence at this stage that Mr and Mrs H were struggling to 
move the claim forward. Theyd asked for a schedule of works to help furnish Bs report 
which they didnt get. And theyd complained about the loss adjusters handling of the claim 
but had been advised to continue working with them. I dont find that unreasonable in that 
the loss adjuster was afforded the opportunity to put things right. But I think this again 
shouldve put RSA on notice about the risks of any further delays. 
It appears a key issue here was the discord between the actual damage Mr and Mrs H were 
claiming for and what RSA thought was needed to put things right. Ive listened to a call 
thats been provided between Mrs H and the loss adjuster, and it reinforces this point. In the 
call, Mrs H raises concerns about the scope of repairs and some of her key concerns, but 
this wasnt picked up by the loss adjuster who instead referred her concerns to RSA as a 
formal complaint.
I think the overall lack of guidance exacerbated RSAs eventual decision to start a new claim 
and had a greater impact to Mr and Mrs H than perhaps RSA has recognised. I can certainly 
accept that being told this information over three years after the event happened wouldve 
been frustrating and upsetting for Mr and Mrs H after being given several reassurances by 
RSA that the damage would be covered, and with RSA having been aware of the ground 
floor cracking since early 2017. 
The evidence shows the previous claim was closed abruptly and wasnt communicated by 
the loss adjuster. And when Mr and Mrs H chased this with the loss adjuster directly, they 
found out that they were no longer involved with the claim. I find this to be poor service and 
must have added to Mr and Mrs Hs frustration.
Taking everything into account, I find there was a clear and avoidable delay in RSA raising a 
separate claim from around March 2018 when Mr and Mrs H made their submission, to the 
point the new claim was raised in December 2019. And I find little evidence to support why 
the separate claim wasnt raised earlier. It follows that I also find RSA should reimburse      
Mr and Mrs H for Bs report, as I dont think this was required in order to validate the claim.Ultimately RSA as the insurer is responsible for the actions of all its appointed agents, and I 
find the level of service provided on the claim to be lacking. I say this because there were 
several issues which I think Mr and Mrs H reasonably raised with RSA since the start of the 
claim. And I wouldve expected RSA as the expert to have provided better clarity about the 
direction of the claim here. Instead, I can see Mr and Mrs H chased RSA a number of times 
for a meaningful response without getting one.
Impact of the delays
Mr and Mrs H have both provided statements which detail the impact the delays of the claim 
have had on them. RSA has also been provided with a copy of these statements.
Ive read both statements, and its clear that whilst Mr and Mrs H were joint policyholders, 
they were both separately and severely impacted by the events of the claim and RSAs 
actions in not appointing the appropriate specialists sooner. 
Ive summarised the points I find relevant to my decision below for ease of reference only.
Mr H has said:
RSAs actions have had a direct effect on his health by inducing a stress-related 
medical condition.
The condition of the property with cracked walls and de-bonded render means he 
cannot enjoy the home due to concerns over the safety of the ceilings and the overall 
dilapidated appearance of the damaged spaces.
He cannot proceed with repairs or redecoration until the claim is concluded.
That significant upset was caused by having unnecessary arguments with the loss 
adjuster which have since turned out to be justified as the damage/claim was 
ultimately accepted.
The damage has led to windows which cannot be opened and windows that cannot 
be closed, leading to concerns for security at the property over a prolonged period.
The upset caused by having the original claim closed in December 2019 was 
crushing, along with the realisation he would need to start the same process again 
with a new loss adjuster.
Mrs H has said:
She has lived with the uncertainty of the compromised lathe and plaster ceilings 
failing for an extended period.
She has spent a significant amount of time dealing with the claim and on the 
correspondence required to try and move the claim forward, often without success.
The emotional upset caused by having works confirmed in November 2019, followed 
by the events of December 2019  closing the claim just before Christmas and telling 
them theyd need to start again was significant.
The significant uncertainty caused over a prolonged period by the ground floor 
damage needing to remain untouched as it was their evidence. 
The frustration and upset caused by RSAs lack of action following their complaint in 
2018.
That there has been an impact to her family as a result of the delays to the planned 
redecoration works, which included disruption to her sons studies.I find Mr and Mrs Hs statements plausible and persuasive. I do accept there are certain 
aspects which dont fall into the scope of my decision and as such Ive not referred to them 
above. For example, Mrs H has said she has incurred additional costs in renting a private 
room for her business and suffered delays in opening her business from home. But I cant 
see that RSA has had an opportunity to address this, so it will need to form a separate 
matter to this complaint. And I cant consider any potential additional costs linked to future 
home improvements and which havent been evidenced.
In response to the statements, RSA said it hadnt been given the opportunity to investigate 
the impact to Mr and Mrs H. But I can see from the complaint correspondence that              
Mr and Mrs H did raise a number of concerns including the stress of the claim, the impact of 
RSAs timing in setting up a new claim, and the previous assurances that the repairs would 
be covered. I think that the onus here was on RSA to explore the issues as part of its own 
complaint investigation, so I dont accept that its been prevented from doing so here.
Conclusion
Overall, I think the impact to Mr and Mrs H from the delays has been significant. They have 
been unable to move forward with the planned home improvements until the claim was 
concluded, and theyve had to live with the damage for an avoidable extended period.
Since 2018, Mr and Mrs H didnt get any closer to resolving the issues with the ground floor 
damage, which has caused them a great deal of distress in the years since. And I think that 
Mr and Mrs H would expect the claim to be a lot further forward than it was by April 2020.
Considering all the above, I find our investigators recommendation of £5,000 compensation 
total to be fair and reasonable. I think this award does fairly reflect the severity of the distress 
and inconvenience caused between the period the claim was made in November 2016, to 
the date of RSAs final response in April 2020.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs H, RSA must:
Pay Mr and Mrs H £4,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Waive the £1,000 excess payment for the second claim, if it hasnt done so already.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs H the cost of Bs report, subject to evidence of the invoice 
being received. 8% simple interest should be applied to this amount, from the date 
the report was invoiced, to the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman