DRN-3387347
The complaint
Miss C complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc when she lost money 
to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2021 Miss C thought she had 
been offered a job abroad. She was told she needed to make some payments towards the 
cost of her visa and work permits so she began making the following payments;
Date Type of Transaction Amount
22 February 2021 International transfer to beneficiary bank A £1,535.00
26 February 2021 International transfer to beneficiary bank B £2,712.38
8 March 2021 International transfer to beneficiary bank C £4,606.90
 Total £8,854.28
After Miss C was asked to send a further £10,000 she became suspicious and reported the 
scam to NatWest on 11 March 2021. NatWest raised the scam with the beneficiary banks on 
the same day, but it was only able to recover some of the money (£2,579.15) that was sent 
to B. This was returned to Miss C in August 2021, but she said a charge was applied to the 
payment by B to cover the cost of returning the money. 
Miss C remained unhappy and said NatWest shouldve flagged the payments as unusual. 
She added that NatWest hadnt communicated with her when it was trying to recover her 
money and sent an e-mail instead of calling her after it had investigated her complaint. So, 
she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he didnt think 
Miss Cs transactions were so unusual or suspicious compared to her normal account 
activity that NatWest shouldve flagged any of them and asked her more questions. And that 
any charge the beneficiary bank removed from the recovered payment wasnt the 
responsibility of NatWest. He added that he didnt think NatWest treated her unfairly when it 
was attempting to recover Miss Cs money and considering her complaint. 
Miss C disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she hadnt sent 
payments internationally before and that NatWest had previously flagged smaller 
transactions within the UK. She said that NatWest only moved quickly to try and recover her 
money because she was contacting it regularly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
It is common ground that Miss C authorised the scam payments of £8,854.28. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Miss C was the victim of a scam. So, although 
it wasnt her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her account, Miss C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for NatWest to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
NatWests first obligation is to follow the instructions that Miss C provides. But if those 
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect NatWest to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect NatWest to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for NatWest to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Miss C to NatWest were 
unusual in relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements 
for the six months prior to the scam payments, which I consider gives a good sample size to 
assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was typically well managed 
and maintained a healthy credit balance. The payments made from the account ranged from 
in the hundreds of pounds to various £1,000 payments to Miss Cs savings account with the 
exception of a £5,489 payment Miss C made to purchase a car. 
I appreciate Miss C doesnt appear to have sent international payments before. But that 
alone isnt sufficient for me to consider these to be unusual payments  account usage can 
change over time. There also doesnt appear to be any urgency to the payments leaving the 
account with three payments spread across roughly fourteen days. Overall, I dont think the 
payments were so unusual or out of character that its reasonable to have expected NatWest 
to have intervened at the time. 
I note Miss C said she had some previous transactions flagged by NatWest which were 
smaller in value to the payments she sent internationally. There are likely to be various flags 
that trigger a transaction, not necessarily just the amount involved. And that would explain 
why transactions for the same amount of money or less might go through on one day and fail 
on another day. This is particularly the case where the previous payment was made with a card (which has the benefit of some protection under a chargeback scheme which an 
international transfer doesnt).
In March 2021 NatWest sent a request to the beneficiary banks for Miss Cs money to be 
returned. It was able to recover £2,579.15 from B. C said the money was withdrawn and no 
funds remained. And A never responded. Im satisfied there werent any failings or delays by 
NatWest that otherwise would have resulted in the recovery of all Miss Cs money. I say this 
because Ive seen confirmation that the recovery was requested promptly after the scam 
was raised and the confirmations from B & C that some or no funds remained. I appreciate 
that Miss C was chasing NatWest for a response in relation to the recovery. But NatWest 
cant force the international beneficiary banks to respond in a timely manner and its not 
uncommon to sometimes not receive a response at all. Unfortunately, recovery of funds 
internationally is commonly more difficult compared to when both banks are in the UK. But 
NatWest did confirm to this service it would let Miss C know if it does receive a response 
from A. 
I agree with the investigator that the decision of B to add a charge to the return of some of 
Miss Cs funds is outside of NatWests control. And because I dont think NatWest did 
anything wrong in allowing the payments to be sent and in trying to recover the money I cant 
reasonably ask it to cover the charge added by B. 
Miss C is unhappy she wasnt updated about NatWests recovery attempts and the way it 
communicated with her during the complaint process. I understand the frustration Miss C 
experienced whilst she waited to hear if any more of her money could be refunded and that 
NatWest didnt call her to let her know the outcome of its investigation. But I dont think that 
warrants compensation here. Miss C received a formal written response to her complaint, 
and I think its up to NatWest in these circumstances how it decides to communicate its 
outcome to the complaint. 
In these circumstances I cant conclude the outstanding loss is the fault of NatWest. To 
be clear, Im not blaming Miss C for the loss  its ultimately the scammer who is to 
blame. But for the reasons ive explained above, I dont think shes been treated unfairly 
by NatWest. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman