DRN-3104354
The complaint
Miss D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under her home 
insurance policy and then avoided the policy.
What happened
Miss D had a home insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes, which covered her 
buildings and contents. She bought the policy in November 2019 and renewed it in 
November 2020.
Miss D made a claim in September 2020 after a burglary at her home. After an investigation 
by their loss adjusters, Great Lakes declined the claim and avoided Miss Ds policy (treated 
it as if it never existed). They returned her premiums back to the date of inception of the 
policy.
They said shed provided inaccurate information when she bought her policy. In particular, 
shed said that the property wasnt used for business purposes, had no business visitors and 
was occupied only by family members. Great Lakes said they had evidence that the property 
had been rented out.
Miss D objected to this outcome, but Great Lakes maintained their position, so Miss D 
brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Great Lakes had 
done anything wrong. 
Miss D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in particular, the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012(CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or renewing a 
policy, the insurer will be able to take certain actions if that misrepresentation was either: 
(a) deliberate or reckless; or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer can avoid the policy and 
refuse all claims and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair to the 
consumer to retain them.
If the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can do the following: 
If they wouldnt have provided the insurance on any terms, they may avoid the policy 
and refuse all claims, but they must return the premiums. If the insurer would still 
have provided the insurance but on different terms (other than terms relating to the 
premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those terms if the 
insurer so requires; and
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but charged a higher premium, 
they may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim where the 
misrepresentation was discovered as a result of a claim.
This is reflected in the policy documents sent to Miss D when she bought the policy. For 
example, her Statement of Insurance says:
 Failure to disclose correct and complete information to the best of your 
knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not 
being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null & void and treated as 
if it never existed
Great Lakes records show that when Miss D bought her policy, she told them the property 
wasnt used for business purposes, had no business visitors and was occupied only be 
relatives of the policyholder(s).
Miss D doesnt deny this. She says the application was made on-line by a family member, 
who made some mistakes by copying information from a previous policy. She also seems to 
suggest there may have been some issues with the computer interface.
Miss D admits that the property was rented out through various short term rental websites. 
Those websites show that the property was rented out before Miss D bought the policy and 
afterwards, for at least a period of time. Miss D says she no longer rents out the property, 
although the property listing on the websites remained live when we checked during our 
investigation.
So, its not disputed in this case that the information provided by Miss D (or her relative) 
when the policy was bought is inaccurate.
CIDRA puts the onus on the customer to take reasonable care to ensure they dont provide 
inaccurate information. You cant avoid that duty by having someone else make the 
application. 
It was for Miss D to ensure that the information provided in application for a policy which was 
to be in her name was accurate, to the best of her knowledge. Great Lakes have also 
provided evidence that a statement of the declared facts was sent to Miss D before the 
policy was bought, and she was asked to check the statements made and correct them if 
they were inaccurate.
Great Lakes have returned Miss Ds premiums, so they arent suggesting she deliberately 
provided inaccurate information. However, they are saying it was careless of her to provide 
the inaccurate information, so theyre entitled to avoid the policy.
I know this will disappoint Miss D, but I have to agree with Great Lakes. She was renting out 
the property at the time she bought the policy, there were business visitors to the property, 
and the home was not occupied solely by family members of the policyholder(s). 
Miss Ds application clearly misrepresented those facts. And the only reason I can see that 
she might have provided that inaccurate information - or not corrected it - was that she 
allowed a family member to make the application and didnt check the information they 
provided at the time or when she later received the statement of facts from Great Lakes. I 
dont think its unreasonable to regard that as careless.Great Lakes have provided evidence that if they had known what use the property was being 
put to at the time of the application, they would have declined to provide cover for Miss D. 
That being the case, they were entitled, under the provisions of CIDRA, to avoid the policy.
In summary, theres no dispute that Miss D provided inaccurate information to Great Lakes. 
Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Miss D 
acted carelessly in doing so. And Im satisfied Great Lakes wouldnt have offered Miss D a 
policy had they known the truth.
So, in line with CIDRA, Great Lakes were entitled to decline the claim and avoid the policy. I 
cant find any reason to suggest theyve treated Miss D unfairly or unreasonably in the way 
they handled and investigated her claim or in the actions they then took.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman