DRN-3072116
The complaint
Ms T complains about Unum Ltds decision to turn down a claim made under a group 
income protection scheme. 
What happened
Ms T is a member of her employers group income protection scheme. The scheme will pay 
benefit if Ms T cant work in her occupation because of illness or injury. The scheme has a 
13-week deferred period. 
On 9 September 2019, Ms T stopped work in her sedentary role and had surgery on her 
knee. Ms T made a claim, but Unum turned this down as it didnt think Ms T met the scheme 
definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Ms T brought a complaint to this service. 
Meanwhile, Ms T returned to work in March 2020, initially on a phased basis.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Based on the available medical 
evidence, she thought Unums claim decision had been reasonable. 
Ms T didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, Ms T needs to show that she was incapacitated for the 13-week 
deferred period. The scheme terms explain a member is incapacitated if theyre unable, by 
reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of their 
occupation. 
The deferred period was 9 September 2019 to 8 December 2019. Ive therefore considered 
the medical evidence during this period, and beyond.
The surgery took place on 10 September 2019. It was a success and Ms T stayed in hospital 
for under a week to recover.
On 22 October 2019, Ms T was reviewed by Professor C (consultant orthopaedic surgeon). 
He noted her scar was well healed, and she had a range of movement from zero to 95 
degrees. Professor C said that he had confirmed she could drive from that day, and for 
walking long distances he encouraged her to use one stick. 
I understand that Ms T had physio following her surgery, and that the final physio session 
took place on 12 December 2019.
Ms T spoke with Unum on 13 December 2019. She said her knee was still painful and she 
took over-the-counter painkillers for this if needed. Ms T said she couldnt walk very far, 
usually only for 30 or 40 minutes. Unum recorded that Ms Ts main barrier to returning to 
work at that time was her commute, as she needed to walk to her office from the train 
station.
The NHS says that the usual timeframe to return to work after this type of surgery is six to 12 
weeks (though this will be dependent on the type of job). The NHS also says that it will take 
up to a year for the swelling to go down, and two years for recovery.
Based on the evidence available during the deferred period, it seems that Ms T was 
recovering from the surgery as expected. There were no obvious problems identified that 
would indicate she would be prevented from carrying out her the main duties of her 
sedentary role. 
Ms T was reviewed by Professor C again on 21 January 2020. He said that because of the 
cold weather, she used one stick outdoors. However, she was able to mobilise satisfactorily 
within the house. She didnt need to take any pain medicine, though there were occasions 
when her knee felt stiff first thing in the morning, which he said was not uncommon. 
Professor C said that with Ms Ts job, she had to get on a train and walk a distance 
thereafter. And that Ms T felt she needed to get her confidence back rather than rushing 
back to work, and that he agreed with her. He suggested she remain off work until the end of 
February 2020, and arranged to review her again in September 2020. Finally, Professor C 
noted that Ms Ts knee had an improved range of movement from zero to 115 degrees.
Although Professor C had reviewed Ms T after the deferred period had ended, Ive 
considered his comments. Having done so, I think its apparent that Professor Cs 
recommendation that Ms T remain off work was based on her struggle with the commute 
and her confidence - rather than there being any problems with her knee that would prevent 
her from carrying out the main duties of her role.
I do appreciate that Ms T was concerned about her commute. However, the scheme terms 
make it clear that an insured occupation doesnt include the journey between Ms Ts home 
and her place of work. I therefore havent been able to take into account any difficulties that 
Ms T faced with her commute.
Ms T has provided a further letter by Professor C written in July 2020. He said that although 
Ms Ts job involved sitting behind a desk for most of the time, her quadricep muscles werent 
strong enough when getting up from her desk to allow her to be comfortable walking. He 
also said that Ms T had to get on stepladders to collect files and she wasnt confident in 
doing so. Professor C also explained that Ms T didnt feel confident going up and down 
stairs, and wouldnt feel safe doing so if there were a fire drill at work. He said it was for 
these reasons that it took Ms T almost six months to return to work.
Ive checked Ms Ts job description, and using stepladders isnt part of her main role. I think 
her employer couldve likely made reasonable adjustments for this. With regards to using the 
stairs during a fire drill, again, this isnt part of Ms Ts role. I would expect her employer to 
carry out a health and safety assessment and provide support for her during a fire drill if 
necessary. 
Professor C said that Ms Ts muscles werent strong enough to allow her to walk comfortably 
after getting up. But she was able to walk for 30 to 40 minutes in December 2019, which was 
just after the end of the deferred period. I also note that when Ms T was reviewed in October 
2019 and January 2020, there was no mention of an issue with her quadricep muscles after 
getting up from a sitting position or walking. Unum says that Ms T could make use of walking aids whilst in work if she needed to. I think thats a reasonable point because a walking aid, 
such as a stick, could assist her when getting up and walking around the office if needed.
I do understand that Ms T hadnt fully recovered from her surgery by the end of the deferred 
period. Her recovery was ongoing, and she was still experiencing some pain at that time. 
However, I dont think the evidence supports that her symptoms were such that she was 
prevented from carrying out her sedentary occupation throughout the whole of the deferred 
period. 
Whilst I recognise that Ms T will be disappointed with my decision, I think it was reasonable 
for Unum to turn down the claim, on the basis that Ms T didnt meet the scheme definition of 
incapacity. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as I think Unum Ltds claims decision 
was reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman