DRN-2938193
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) mis-managed her 
investment and provided misleading information about its performance.
What happened
Mrs G invested £75,000 with the Oxford Capital Estate Planning Service (EPS) in 
December 2015 after receiving advice from her financial adviser. Mrs Gs adviser is 
representing her in bringing this complaint. 
The EPS was a discretionary investment management service which would likely provide 
investors inheritance tax relief after two years. The terms of the discretionary management 
service were set out in an Investment Memorandum (IM) dated July 2014. Oxford Capital 
used invested funds to buy shares in companies which would own or provide loans to 
companies operating infrastructure assets. 
Oxford Capital transferred the EPS to a new investment manager in 2020. That provider had 
valued Mrs Gs investment at about £37,500 when she made her complaint.
 
Mrs G complains, in summary, that Oxford Capital: 
Pursued an investment strategy that breached the terms of the discretionary 
management agreement and wasnt in line with the approach they consistently said they 
were taking. She thinks Oxford Capital failed to invest her funds in a diverse set of 
assets and didnt focus on capital preservation and generating the expected returns of 
5%. She says Oxford Capital also breached limits on the size of loans that would be 
made to individual investee companies.  
Misled her about the status and expected performance of her investment. At a meeting in 
July 2018, Oxford Capital told Mrs Gs adviser that her investment was performing well 
and there was no reason why returns would not exceed expectations. They failed to 
mention that in March 2018 there had been an industrial incident at a facility Mrs G was 
invested in. Mrs G was only told about the incident in 2019.  
Induced Mrs G to invest in the EPS by offering a discount which created a sense of 
urgency.     
Oxford Capital have said, in summary:
While it is regrettable that Mrs Gs investment did not achieve the targeted returns, that 
does not amount to a failure on their part to comply with the mandate they were given. 
The risks and potential for loss were clearly set out for Mrs G in the IM before she 
invested. The IM didnt specify any limits on the size of loans, so there were no breaches 
of the mandate in this regard. 
They refute any suggestion that they misled Mrs G about her investment or failed to 
disclose information. They say they were always open and honest in their 
communications with Mrs G and her adviser.  
Mrs G was able to take advantage of a discount in fees that they offered from the end of 
2015 for about six months. Offering such a discount was common practice and permitted 
under the relevant regulations, and there was no time pressure on Mrs G to invest. 
 
Our investigator didnt think Oxford Capital had done anything wrong. Mrs G disagrees and 
has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oxford Capital were not responsible for giving advice to Mrs G about her investment. So, it 
wasnt for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EPS were suitable for 
her. Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider 
of that advice.
Oxford Capital were responsible for providing information to Mrs G, and her adviser, about 
the EPS and for managing her investment. The IM gave Oxford Capital the mandate to make 
decisions on behalf of Mrs G and so they had to ensure their actions were consistent with 
the strategy set out in that document.  
In this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Ive looked at whether Oxford Capital managed Mrs Gs investment in 
line with the mandate given by the IM. And Ive considered whether the information Oxford 
Capital provided to Mrs G and her adviser was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Investment strategy
The IM explained the investment strategy of the EPS. It said that Oxford Capital would use 
an investors money to buy shares in one or more unquoted holding companies, which would 
own or provide loans to companies operating infrastructure assets. The assets would be 
capable of generating stable income streams through long-term contracts.
The IM said that spreading trading activities across a series of companies in this way had 
the effect of diversifying an individuals investment while keeping their shareholding simple 
and easy to manage. It said the investments were focused on renewable energy and power 
generation assets, but other assets could be included over time. 
The IM gave Oxford Capital the mandate to select investments on the clients behalf. It went 
on to describe how investment decisions would be made, with the priority being to invest in 
companies which Oxford Capital believed would allow them to achieve the targeted returns.
Investors were given the option of selecting different investment strategies. Mrs G chose 
portfolio G, focused on the return strategy and with a target return of 5%. Her funds were 
invested in shares in one of the holding companies, which in turn invested in other 
companies, as described above. 
Mrs G has said that Oxford Capital breached their mandate because they should have 
focused on capital preservation and the target returns were not met. But I think the IM made clear that the target returns were not guaranteed, and that the EPS was a high-risk 
investment. For example, the Important Notice on page 2 of the IM said:
The Oxford Capital Estate Planning Service will invest in unquoted securities. Such 
investments can be more risky than investments in quoted securities or shares. 
Investing in private companies may expose you to a significant risk of losing all the 
money invested. 
The investment risks section of the IM said:
The value of your investment may go down as well as up and is not guaranteed. 
A company in your portfolio may fail resulting in its securities being sold for 
significantly less than the amount paid for them.
Your portfolio will comprise one or more companies which may operate in a common 
industry or sector. This may increase the level of investment risk.
The performance of your investment, including the level of income generated, 
cannot be guaranteed. The target returns quoted represent the objective of the 
relevant strategy...The target returns quoted in this document are targets for the 
medium-to long-term.
I think the risks of the investment were adequately highlighted in the IM. Im also satisfied 
that there was a sufficiently clear distinction drawn between the investment strategy and 
target returns, and the inherent high-risk nature of the investment. So, I dont agree that the 
information provided was misleading.
Mrs G has also said that Oxford Capital breached limits they had set on the loans that would 
be made to individual companies. Hes referred to limits of no more than 10% or 5% of the 
total loans in OCEPS companies being associated with a single endeavour, and of all loans 
being in the range of £1 million to £3 million. 
Oxford Capital have said the IM did not set any limits on the size of loans. They have 
provided some information on their approach and the size of loans that were made but say 
they did not breach their investment mandate.   
Oxford Capital have said their long-term aim was to reduce exposure in any single 
investment to less than 10% as the EPS holding companies matured. They have said that at 
the time the fund was suspended, one loan represented 14.5% of the investments made by 
the company that Mrs G held shares in.
Oxford Capital have also said that their 2018 reports on the EPS said that loans were 
typically in the range of £1 million to £3 million. They have said there were only two loans 
above that range across the entire EPS portfolio.
As Ive referred to above, the IM made clear that part of the investment strategy was to 
provide loans to companies operating infrastructure assets. Ive not seen any evidence that 
the IM set limits on the size of loans to individual companies. Ive also considered Mrs Gs 
complaint about the holding companies using debt. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
I can fairly say that Oxford Capital breached their investment mandate in these areas.  
July 2018 meetingAs Ive discussed, the IM gave Oxford Capital a mandate to manage Mrs Gs investments on 
her behalf. The IM said that Oxford Capital would send Mrs G updated valuations of her 
investment every six months together with a cash statement. They had a responsibility to 
ensure that any information they gave Mrs G about the performance of her investment was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Mrs Gs representative has said he attended a due diligence meeting with Oxford Capital 
each year to discuss the EPS. Hes said that at the July 2018 meeting Oxford Capital told 
him Mrs Gs investment was performing well and there was no reason not to expect returns 
ahead of expectations. They didnt tell him that in March 2018 there had been an industrial 
incident at a facility Mrs G was invested in and it wasnt until April 2019 that Mrs G was told 
about the incident.
Oxford Capital have provided information about the meetings attended by Mrs Gs 
representative and the industrial incident hes referred to. They have said the meetings were 
not for due diligence but an opportunity for clients to meet the manager of the EPS. 
The meetings covered the performance of the EPS both overall and for individual clients as 
well as the current position and outlook for the relevant investment sectors. Oxford Capital 
have said they didnt go into detail on the activities of individual investee companies. 
There are no notes of the meeting in July 2018, but Oxford Capital have provided copies of 
some documents they shared with clients at the meeting. They have said they would have 
expressed confidence in the performance of Mrs Gs investments as that was their view at 
the time. There is no reference in the documents to the industrial incident and Oxford Capital 
have said they wouldnt have mentioned it because at that time they considered it to be an 
operational issue and they didnt think the loan to the company concerned was in any way 
impaired. 
Oxford Capital have said it was only in October 2018 that they became aware the incident 
was more serious than previously thought, but the loan was still not judged to be in any way 
at risk. The lender had security over the asset and there was still equity value of 50% above 
it. 
In February 2019 however the cost of repairing the incident became clearer and the 
construction company refused to accept liability. I note that at that point the loan represented 
14.5% of the investments made by the company Mrs G held shares in. The companys debt 
was now judged to be impaired and Oxford Capital decided there was a risk to EPS 
investors. They decided the fund should be suspended and wrote to Mrs G and other 
investors. Their letter said that the uncertainty in valuing the underlying investment meant 
they were unable to value shares in the EPS companies and so were suspending trading. 
I cant be sure exactly what was said at the meeting in July 2018. But Ive looked at what 
both parties have said and the documents that Oxford Capital have provided. And while I 
think its likely that Oxford Capital discussed the performance of Mrs Gs investments and 
their future expectations in broad terms, I dont think its likely that any guarantees were 
given around future performance and returns. And I accept what Oxford Capital have said 
about such meetings not being an opportunity for a detailed discussion of individual investee 
companies. 
In relation to the industrial incident, Ive taken account of the fact that the IM gave Oxford 
Capital the mandate to manage Mrs Gs investments, make decisions and manage risks. 
With the benefit of hindsight, its clear that the incident presented a more serious risk to 
investors than initially thought. But Oxford Capital were exercising their commercial 
judgment at the time and I dont think I can fairly say they acted unreasonably. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say that Oxford Capital misled Mrs Gs representative about the performance of her investment. And I think they 
communicated clearly with Mrs G once the impact of the incident on her investment became 
clear.
  
Incentive to invest
It appears that when Mrs G invested, she took advantage of a discount in fees that Oxford 
Capital offered from the end of 2015. It is common for investors to be offered such a 
discount at certain times and, in my view, such offers are a legitimate marketing tool. 
Oxford Capital have said the offer was in place for about six months and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs G was put under inappropriate time pressure.
Summary 
Mrs Gs adviser has said that in looking at this complaint our service should also have 
sought commentary from the Financial Conduct Authority and the provider who the EPS was 
transferred to in 2020.  
It is for the ombudsman service to decide what information we need in order to decide a 
complaint. Id like to reassure Mrs G that Im satisfied I have the information I need in order 
to make a decision on her complaint. And Ive taken account of the rules and guidance 
published by the FCA, who are the regulator for financial firms. 
Id also like to reassure Mrs G and her representative that Ive looked carefully at everything 
theyve said. Im satisfied the IM explained how the EPS would work and was sufficiently 
clear on the level of risk to investors. Based on what Ive seen, I think Oxford Capital made 
decisions in line with the mandate set out in their agreement with Mrs G. And I dont think I 
can fairly say that Oxford Capital misled Mrs G or failed to provide her with clear and fair 
information about her investment.  
Unfortunately, in Mrs Gs case, some of the potential risks associated with this kind of 
investment have been realised and it has performed badly. I can understand why Mrs G 
feels strongly about what has happened. But I dont think I can fairly hold Oxford Capital 
responsible for her losses. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mrs G, but I 
wont be upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint 
against Oxford Capital Partners LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman