DRN-3453142
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy drainage repairs were delayed following a claim made under her home 
insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). Mrs M says shes 
incurred costs due to the delays.
What happened
In February 2019 cracks to the walls and sinking of the kitchen floor was discovered in 
Mrs Ms home. A claim was made under Mrs Ms home insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA for suspected subsidence.
RSA declined the claim for the cracks and floor sinking as they said an insured peril under 
the insurance policy hadnt occurred. Mrs M brought the complaint to this service. This was 
considered by an ombudsman who said RSA hadnt acted unfairly.
Mrs M obtained her own surveyor report and sent this to RSA to consider. RSA maintained 
the claim decision, so Mrs M brought the new complaint to this service. She also complained 
about RSA taking premiums which she said she didnt agree to. Both of these complaints are 
being considered separately to this complaint.
This complaint relates to delays in drainage repairs being carried out at Mrs Ms property, 
separate to the subsidence claim. Mrs M says RSA caused the delays and shes incurred 
alternative accommodation costs as a result. The complaint was considered by RSA, but 
they didnt agree they were responsible for the delays. Instead they said Mrs Ms 
representative didnt allow repairs to go ahead, Mrs M didnt pay the policy excess, and 
wanted to await the decision on the previous complaint by this service before proceeding 
with repairs. So, RSA said they werent responsible for the delays in the drain repairs being 
completed, or any costs incurred during this time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint about delays. She said that she didnt think 
Mrs Ms representative was the cause of delays as RSA had said. 
However, she said that Mrs M had moved out of the property before the subsidence claim 
was first made and didnt return home when the drainage repairs were completed in 2019 - 
and still hasnt. So, she said that the delays in drain repairs werent the sole reason Mrs M 
was out of the property, so she said she couldnt hold RSA responsible for Mrs As costs 
incurred living elsewhere. 
Our investigator also said the policy terms outlined that RSA had to agree alternative 
accommodation costs, but Mrs M hadnt obtained authorisation for this.
Mrs Ms representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M is being represented in her complaints to this service. Where Ive referred to Mrs M, 
this also includes any actions carried out on her behalf by her representative.
Mrs M has raised separate complaints about RSA continuing to take premiums after she 
asked for the policy to end. And shes also complained about the claim decision reached by 
RSA after Mrs M obtained her own surveyor report. However, Im not considering those 
complaints here. This decision solely relates to delays in drain repairs being completed and 
whether RSA should pay for Mrs Ms alternative accommodation costs incurred during that 
time. Im considering the other two complaints separately and will issue my decision on 
those separately too.
After noticing the kitchen flooring had sunk and cracks in walls, a claim was made to RSA for 
possible subsidence. Im not commenting on that claim or decision here. But separately to 
this, following inspection, it was established tree roots had caused damage to and displaced 
the drains. RSA accepted a claim for drain repairs under the accidental breakage to drains 
part of Mrs Ms policy.
When deciding whether RSA should cover alternative accommodation costs incurred by 
Mrs M, Id need to be persuaded that either Mrs M was entitled to this under her insurance 
policy, or that the costs were solely incurred due to poor claim handling by RSA.
The actual repair to the drains was only due to take one day, and outside the property itself. 
So, for that short period of time, I wouldnt expect alternative accommodation to be provided.
But Mrs Ms representative argues that RSA delayed repairs for several months, the property 
was consequently uninhabitable and therefore says RSA should cover alternative 
accommodation for that period. 
An inspection was carried out when the drain issue was suspected, and Mrs Ms 
representative met with RSAs appointed contractor to discuss repair works. After the visit, 
Mrs Ms representative was sent a breakdown of the proposed works. However, Mrs Ms 
representative was of the opinion they differed to those agreed on site and therefore raised 
this with RSAs agents.
I cant comment on the site visit and what specifically was discussed as I wasnt present at 
the time. But I have seen both a copy of the report of proposed works Mrs Ms representative 
was sent at the time, and this differs to that which was later agreed. The internal notes also 
support that Mrs Ms representative disputed what was proposed.
Given the difference in the repair proposal reports, and the internal note which reflects 
contact from Mrs Ms representative about this, it does seem that there was a change in the 
works originally proposed and later agreed. So on balance, it does appear that this couldve 
attributed to some of the delays in the drain works being completed whilst they were in 
dispute.RSA also say Mrs M wouldnt pay the excess and wanted to wait for the final decision on the 
previous complaint, and this attributed to the delays. However, I note the repairs were 
completed later without the excess being collected, so this doesnt appear to have been 
what caused delays. And the final decision on the other case also doesnt appear to have 
caused delays either as this was issued after the repairs to the drains had been completed.
So on balance, I think the difference in works proposed, and later agreed, at least partly 
contributed to the delays in drainage repairs being carried out. However, I also need to 
consider whether the fact the drain repairs werent completed until later was the sole reason 
alternative accommodation costs were incurred by Mrs M, and this was the only reason she 
was unable to return home. 
Mrs Ms representative says that due to the drain damage, the foul drain couldnt be used, as 
it would cause contamination. They say this rendered the property uninhabitable until the 
repairs were completed. However, having considered all the information provided, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to say RSA should meet the alternative accommodation 
costs, even if they were solely responsible for the delays in drain works being carried out. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs M wasnt residing in the property at the time the sinking kitchen flooring and cracking in 
the walls was discovered, and the claim was then raised for subsidence with RSA. It was off 
the back of that the issue with the drains was discovered. But ultimately the subsidence 
claim was declined, so the issue with the kitchen floor and walls remained and were a 
separate wider issue to the drainage repair being needed.
Mrs Ms representative has said Mrs M would be unlikely to return home, given the wider 
issue with the property and health. And ultimately the property may be sold. Mrs Ms 
representative says it shouldnt matter whether Mrs M was residing in the property prior to or 
after the drains issue was discovered or after it was repaired. Instead they argue that they 
werent given an opportunity to return due to being unable to use the drains.
However, I have to take into account the wider circumstances, including the overall claim for 
suspected subsidence related cracking and kitchen floor sinking which would always have 
needed repairing. This was separate to the drain issue and claim and was ultimately 
declined by RSA. Mrs M didnt move out of the property solely due to the drainage issue, 
and likewise, she didnt return when the drains were repaired either in 2019. So even if the 
repairs were completed sooner and there werent several months of delays (whoever was 
responsible for said delays), on balance, I dont think she wouldve returned then either.
I dont agree with Mrs Ms representatives view that any other reason for not returning 
shouldnt be considered and only whether the drains were useable should be. I need to take 
into account the drains werent the reason Mrs M moved out, and she didnt return when 
they were fixed. So, I cant fairly conclude that the costs incurred during that time should be 
covered by RSA, as they werent solely incurred due to the drain repair delays. Mrs M 
wouldve always been out of the property before, during (and after) the drain repairs - with or 
without delays, so Im not going to direct RSA to cover the costs incurred during that time.
The policy terms also outline that any costs for alternative accommodation would need to be 
authorised by RSA, and I cant see that they agreed to these either, taking into account the 
repair was only due to take one day. But regardless of obtaining authorisation, the 
alternative accommodation wasnt incurred solely because of the drain issue, or delays, in 
any event.I do recognise that needing to challenge the proposed works wouldve been inconvenient 
and caused delay. But I also have to take into account that Mrs Ms representative was 
acting on her behalf and it was them that handled things. And Mrs M wouldve always been 
out of the property regardless. Mrs Ms representative isnt a policyholder or eligible 
complainant, so I cant consider the impact or inconvenience to them personally.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman