DRN-1593758
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly and 
disproportionately reduced his credit card limit.
What happened
Mr K says Barclaycard reduced his credit card limit from £12,000 to £300 following two 
missed payments. He says he has held this account for many years but in 2019 was in 
Greece working and thought he did not have an outstanding credit card balance. Mr K says 
the amount he owed was relatively low, and he repaid the balance when he realised what 
had happened. But Barclaycard's actions were unfair and disproportionate. He would like the 
credit limit reinstated.
Barclaycard says it's not made a mistake or acted unfairly. It says it reduced the credit limit 
on 7 August 2019 following two missed credit card payments by Mr K and acted in line with 
account terms and conditions by doing so. Barclaycard accepts the outstanding payments 
were relatively low but says if a customer can't make payments it would be irresponsible to 
allow a large credit limit.
Mr K brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard was entitled to reduce a credit limit in these circumstances and in line 
with account terms and conditions. And so Barclaycard hadn't made a mistake or acted 
unfairly.
Mr K doesn't accept that view and maintains Barclaycard's actions are disproportionate to 
what took place and his credit limit compared to the missed payments. He says the reduced 
credit limit will cause him difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr K would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see those account terms and conditions say that 
Barclaycard is entitled to set the credit limit, review it and if necessary change it. Those 
conditions go on to say that notice may not be given in certain circumstances, such as when 
there is a reassessment of risk. So I'm satisfied that Barclaycard hasn't made a mistake here 
by reviewing Mr K's account following two missed payments and by reassessing its risk. I'm 
also satisfied that Barclaycard in line with those terms and conditions is entitled to take the 
steps it did and so hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I can see that Mr K accepts that Barclaycard is entitled to review an account but says its 
actions were disproportionate to his credit limit amount. And didn't take into account his financial circumstances and the explanation for the missed payments. I understand Mr K's 
frustration in those circumstances and appreciate his concerns about Barclaycard's actions. 
But I have explained that I think Barclaycard was entitled to take the action it did and in line 
with the account terms and conditions. I also think that it's up to Barclaycard to decide how it 
makes an assessment of risk and the credit limit it offers customers. I'm satisfied such 
matters are for a business to decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement and 
not something I can fairly interfere in.
Overall I'm satisfied that Mr K missed two payments and Barclaycard  was entitled to review 
its business relationship with him. In those circumstances I can't fairly order Barclaycard to 
increase Mr K's credit limit and I find that it's up to Barclaycard to decide the level of risk it 
takes on. I don't think it matters if Barclaycard's actions were disproportionate, as for the 
reasons I have explained, I think it's up to it to make such decisions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman