DRN-3565191
The complaint
Mr F complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
said if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr F is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In February 1991, Mr F was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan.
At the time, Mr F was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
him making a monthly contribution of £33.33 (gross). Another plan was taken out in October 
1992, again with gross level monthly contributions of £33.33, paid from February 1991. The 
last contribution was paid in April 2014. 
In 2018, Mr F complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that:
The FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and as a result of being mis-sold,
hes suffered a financial loss;
The full risks, implications, and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC plan were not
fully and properly explained. And he wasnt provided with a full or descriptive
comparison of benefits between his in-house scheme and the FSAVC plan;
He was unaware that the FSAVC plan had higher charges and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers scheme.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr F had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Fs file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
Over the period of liability (June 1991 to April 2014), the total contributions paid to 
the FSAVC plan represented 1.152% of pensionable pay. If 1.152% of pensionable 
pay had instead been directed to added years, Mr F could have purchased added
years of 1 year 220 days up to age 60 if working full time throughout.
 
However, Mr F had periods of part-time service. This reduced the number of years he 
couldve bought to 1 year 213 days. As contributions were only paid for 22 years 11 
months, rather than the full 29-year contract term for added years, this further 
reduced it to 1 year 92 days.
The plan values in April 2019 were £47,136.90 and £38,343.24 respectively. Both 
plans benefitted from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 60, there was a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) of £7.016 per £100 fund value payable monthly in 
advance guaranteed for 5 years and with no escalation. To use the funds to 
purchase an equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology (to be 
consistent with the valuation of the lost scheme benefits) would require a total 
amount now of £72,213.48 and £58,741.64. Therefore, the fund value on which the 
calculations are based is this higher figure. The GAR adjustment only applies to 75% 
of the fund, the balance being the maximum 25% which may be taken as tax free 
cash.
Wesleyans letter explained that the combined value of the FSAVC plans of £129,008.52 
(reduced to remove the value of the FSAVC contributions paid outside of the liability period 
from February 1991 to May 1991,) was higher than the value of the benefits of £109,388.88 
Mr F would have bought in the OPS by a margin of £19,619.64. As a result, no 
compensation was due as its calculations showed that Mr F hadnt incurred a financial loss.
Mr F didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
In summary, Mr F is concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss assessment. 
He doesnt think its fair to apply the GAR to a notional fund value and believes this goes 
against the loss calculation rules as set out in the FSAVC Mis-Selling Review Guidance.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional thoughts on the complaint to both parties. In my 
correspondence I said that: 
This complaint has been upheld on the basis that Mr F would have bought added 
years if the FSAVC plans hadnt been mis-sold. The FSAVCs have a GAR 
attached. During the relevant period, the consumer has also had a few short gaps in 
service with the NHS and some part time service. They didnt go on to buy added 
years.
I think the main point that is in dispute in this complaint is that Wesleyan has 
included the value of the GAR in its calculation.
Inclusion of GAR in calculation
Ive said on a previous case that Im satisfied that the value of the GAR can be 
taken into account when a complaint is upheld on an added years basis. My 
thoughts on this aspect havent changed despite X-Claims further submissions in 
this regard. I think the guidance allows for a GAR to be included and having 
received further information from Wesleyan regarding the GARs that are available, 
Im satisfied that it would be possible for a consumer to take an annuity out on a 
similar basis to the benefit that would be provided by added years. So if a consumer 
wished to take an annuity with a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI, 
then this would be possible.
I accept that previously the information around how the GAR has been applied and 
whether an uplift has been provided has been contradictory. Ive now received 
written confirmation from Wesleyans actuaries that no uplift is provided if the GAR is not taken. So any consumers that choose to transfer their funds to a different 
product, provider, or take it as a lump sum, will not benefit from an uplift.
The actuaries have also clarified that although its GAR is quoted in its policy 
document based on a single life, level annuity, if the consumer wishes to take an 
annuity on a different basis they can do so. This will be calculated on an actuarially 
equivalent basis; this doesnt mean that the GAR will be the same but the rate has 
been determined on the same actuarial basis as the original GAR.
On another case X-Claims has said that the GAR doesnt produce a guaranteed 
pension, whereas the added years arrangement does. But I think its important to 
point out that the GAR itself is guaranteed once the basis its being taken on, and at 
what age, has been determined. What isnt guaranteed is the fund value that the 
GAR is being applied to. However, this issue isnt unique to this particular batch of 
complaints bought by X-Claims. All prospective loss case calculations for pension 
transfers that are completed in line with the regulators FG17/9 guidance, such as 
FSAVC complaints where the consumer would have bought added years, have to 
use projections to determine the fund value at retirement. This is no different to 
what Wesleyan is doing here, before the GAR  which is guaranteed - is being 
applied. So I dont think the approach taken here is unfair.
As such, I believe in these circumstances, its appropriate to take the value of 
the GAR into account. If the GAR isnt taken into account, theres a risk that 
the consumer could be placed in a better position at retirement if they receive 
redress on basis of the FSAVC fund value (without the GAR uplift) and then 
go on to utilise the GAR when they take their benefits.
I accept that there is a chance the consumer may choose not to take a guaranteed 
income when they take the benefits of the FSAVC plan. So they wont benefit from 
the GAR, yet Wesleyan will have taken its value into account in its calculations.
However, in order to give up this valuable  safe guarded - benefit, the consumer 
will be required to seek advice. There are many reasons why a consumer may opt 
to give up a guaranteed income. And  while not commenting specifically on this 
case - in some cases, it can be in the consumers interest to do so in order to meet 
objectives they may have.
I dont think the fact that Wesleyan has included the value of the GAR in its 
calculations means that this is unfair. Under the added years arrangement, its only 
possible to take the benefit as a guaranteed income. So, if a consumer is aware 
that the GAR is available but chooses to take advantage of the flexibilities that the 
FSAVC plan provides and they give up the GAR, I dont think they are being treated 
unfairly by the value of the GAR being included in the calculation.
They are essentially choosing to forgo the guaranteed income in order to take 
advantage of the flexibilities available under the FSAVC plan, this wouldnt have 
been possible under the added years arrangement had they been a member.
The GAR Wesleyan bases it calculation on is a single life, level annuity thats 
guaranteed for 5 years. I think its worth clarifying here that the guaranteed period 
means that if the consumer dies within the first 5 years of the annuity starting, the 
payments are guaranteed at the full amount for the remainder of that 5 year period. 
It doesnt mean that increases to the annuity, if applicable, only happen for this 
period.Wesleyan has said that it has used this form of annuity because it says that 
consumers that opt to take a guaranteed income generally take this option. But I 
think a fairer comparison would be to base the value on a GAR that more closely 
matches the lost benefits, so an annuity providing a 50% spouses pension, 
increasing in line with RPI. Its not clear at present what difference this will make to 
a loss calculation because the GAR is determined on the same actuarial basis as 
the one Wesleyan has already used in its calculations. But I think Wesleyan should 
rerun the calculation on this basis in order to determine what difference this makes.
Number of added years consumer would have purchased
Wesleyan has calculated that Mr F paid the equivalent of 1.15% of his pensionable 
pay to his FSAVC plan between the relevant period. At the time of advice, this 
would have secured 1 year and 220 days. However, Mr F has had some small gaps 
in service, some part time service and he stopped his contributions to the FSAVCs 
in 2014 as well. So Wesleyan has reduced the number of added years down 
accordingly to 1 year 92 days. Had Mr F been a member of the added years 
arrangement these factors would have impacted the number of added years he 
would have initially contracted to buy. So I dont think the approach Wesleyan has 
taken here is inappropriate in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
Wesleyan responded and confirmed that while it maintains that the value attributed to the 
GAR can be assessed using a single life, level annuity, it agrees to rerun the calculation in 
line with my provisional findings. 
Mr Fs representative responded. Whilst agreeing that a fairer way of conducting a loss 
calculation is for it to be re-run, it would like to raise the following points regarding over-
compensating clients.
To ensure that a consumer, who that hasnt yet taken their benefits, isnt over-compensated, 
it would be fairer to not include the GAR in the calculation but instead to add a clause to any 
offer of compensation. The clause could stipulate that, if the offer is accepted, the consumer 
will waive their right to the GAR feature on the policy. 
It also believes that Wesleyan will have already made provision in its accounts for the GAR 
features on these policies. So to be fair to both Wesleyan and the consumer, when the GAR 
isnt utilised, it should calculate an amount equivalent to the proportion set aside and carried 
forward in its funds to meet future benefits. The precedent for this type of actuarial 
calculation is commonly set when a policyholder cashes in a with profits policy early. The 
actuary still adds in a proportion of the terminal bonus, because it has carried forward in the 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has complained that his FSAVC plan was mis-sold. He says that had he been correctly 
advised, hed have purchased added years in this OPS. 
The GAR on Mr Fs FSAVC plan allows him to take his benefits in a similar format to those 
provided by the added years arrangement. The FSAVC can provide a guaranteed income, 
which Mr F can choose to have increase in line with RPI and to provide a 50% spouses 
pension. If Mr F had purchased added years, this would have secured him a guaranteed increasing income with a spouses pension. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Wesleyan 
takes the value of the GAR into account when calculating the value of FSAVC fund in an 
added years loss assessment. The above mentioned GAR provides a benefit that is the 
closest match to the benefits Mr F has complained he should have bought. 
I think the FSAVC review guidance allows for a GAR to be included. But even if it didnt, I 
think it would be appropriate to do so anyway.  And I dont have to apply the guidance if I 
think doing so would result in an outcome that isnt fair to both parties. 
Ive noted Mr Fs representatives suggestions about how the GAR could be treated and Id 
like to address why I dont think these are appropriate. 
I accept that Wesleyan may well have factored its GAR responsibilities into its future 
liabilities. But this is no different to any other firm that offers a product with a GAR, where the 
policyholder chooses to give up those safeguarded benefits. Since the introduction of 
Pension Freedoms in 2015, there has been an increase in the number of consumers doing 
just that; choosing to give up safeguarded benefits. However, there are no rules that require 
firms to provide an enhanced transfer value to these consumers if the GAR isnt utilised. 
In the case of Mr F, he could choose to take his benefits in similar way to the added years 
arrangement. If he opts to take them via any other means, then hes doing so knowing he is 
giving up a value benefit in order to access his plan flexibly. It wouldnt be fair for Mr F to 
receive an increased transfer value simply because he has complained that his plan was 
mis-sold. If he chooses to take benefits in a format that isnt the same as was initially 
intended - and not in a format that would better match the product he is complaining he 
ought to have taken out - then I see no reason why he should be treated differently to any 
other policyholder that chooses to give up safeguarded benefits. 
This isnt an issue that is unique to Wesleyan, its an issue that impacts any pension provider 
where their policyholder chooses to forgo their safeguarded benefits. Its not my role to set 
rules for the industry on how these plans should be dealt with, thats a matter for the 
regulator to decide. And as Ive said above, there are currently no rules that require a firm to 
provide an increased transfer value if a consumer gives up safeguarded benefits. 
I also dont agree that Wesleyan will benefit from the GAR not being taken, even if its made 
an allowance for this in its fund. I say this because Mr F is invested in a with-profits fund. 
These have specific rules regarding the distribution of funds and surrender values. And 
Wesleyan has confirmed that any profit to the with-profits fund on the transfer of a policy 
would be spread over all the remaining policies in the fund, although this would have minimal 
impact on any one plan. This is in line with how other with-profits funds operate and I dont 
think it would be appropriate for me to ask Wesleyan to treat Mr F differently. So Im not 
asking it to provide an uplift in this case, particularly as I dont consider Wesleyan is liable for 
any loss suffered by Mr F in deciding to give up his GAR. 
I also dont think it would be appropriate to add a clause to any settlement agreement where 
a consumer effectively waives their right to the GAR feature on their plan. This is because a 
GAR of this value is a safeguarded benefit and pension legislation says that it can only be 
given up after advice has been received. So Wesleyan would not be complying with 
legislation if it allowed a consumer to waive their right to the GAR without advice having 
been provided. And in any event, for the reasons explained, when a consumer has 
complained that they should have been advised to take added years, I dont think Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable including the value of the GAR. So even if this legislation wasnt in 
place requiring advice to be taken before giving up safeguarded benefits, I still wouldnt ask 
Wesleyan to add a clause to its settlement letters. Putting things right
Wesleyan should rerun its calculation based on the value of a GAR that better matches the 
lost benefits that added years would have provided, so an annuity providing a 50% spouses 
pension, increasing in line with RPI.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible 
or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum 
after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Wesleyan should 
complete the above calculations as at the date of my final decision. And it should pay 8% 
simple per year from the date of the final decision to the date of settlement if the matter is 
not settled within 28 days of the it being notified of Mr Fs acceptance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Wesleyan Assurance Society to 
calculate redress as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman