DRN-3502171
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about being charged currency fees for the account she held with 
Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited, trading as Saxo Markets (Saxo). She would like those 
charges repaid to her. 
What happened
Mrs F inherited some Euro denominated stocks from her late father which she wanted 
transferring to Saxo in the UK. In October 2020 it became clear to Mrs F that her account 
was only in GBP and not Euros which she says requested and which Saxo knew.  
Mrs F raised a complaint with Saxo which was rejected. It said;
When Mrs F opened her account with Saxo in August 2019, she selected GBP as the 
base currency. But she would also need a Euro account to receive dividends in 
Euros which could be done via a sub account, but in error this wasnt done.
When Mrs F sold three shareholdings in early 2020, she was charged currency fees 
for conversion of the resulting Euros to her GBP account. The trading platform shows 
the cost of those trades and the currency fees that would be applied. 
It should have been clear to Mrs F that she didnt have a Euro sub account set up 
and the costs of selling the Euro denominated shares would have been clear to her 
at the time. 
It had charged currency fees in line with its General Business Terms which Mrs F 
had agreed to along with the Commissions, Fees and Margins Schedule.
In conclusion, even though Mrs F had requested a Euro subaccount it was never 
confirmed that one had been set up. And the trading platform made clear the costs of 
each transaction.
It accepted that the customer service she had received in responding to her 
complaint wasnt to the standard Saxo strived to achieve so offered Mrs F £250.
Mrs F was unhappy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
It was for the customer to choose the account currency when opening the account 
online. The screenshots of the application and the post application paperwork shows 
the account was opened in GBP, so it was fair of Saxo to have opened the account in 
GBP.
The charges were applied fairly.
Mrs F was convinced she had opened the account in Euros, but the investigator 
couldnt see any evidence that was the case. After Mrs F spoke with Saxo it was 
clear she wanted to open a Euro sub account, and this was to be carried out after her 
application. 
Mrs F had said that when trading she expected to clearly see the fees and had 
complained about Saxos systems and that they werent clear or user friendly. But 
Saxo had provided screenshots of what would be seen when a trade was placed, 
and the investigator was satisfied Saxo had specified this information to show how it 
highlighted fees and currency. 
She accepted that Mrs F had previously asked Saxo to open a Euro sub account, but 
no action was taken and accepted that this wasnt good service. But she could see 
other contact was made and it was clear from the outset the account was in GBP and 
there hadnt been any confirmation of a Euro sub account. So, she thought it would 
have been reasonable for Mrs F to had checked for any currency conversion fees 
prior to making any non-GBP trades. She thought the £250 that had been offered 
because of this was fair. 
Correspondence continued but the complaint couldnt be resolved so it has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phone recordings
Saxo has provided recordings of phone conversations Mrs F had with Saxo. Like the 
investigator I have listened to those calls and cant find any reference to the account being 
opened in Euros. Mrs F maintains that Saxo was aware the shares she was transferring 
were denominated in Euros and that the account should be in Euros. But from the 
conversations Ive listened to, there was plenty of other discussion, but there was no 
comment from Mrs F specifying the account should be in Euros.
Mrs F has referred to phone calls she had with Saxo from 2015 onwards and prior to the 
funds arriving in her account in 2019. Saxo provided all of the call recordings it could trace, 
and I can see it made efforts to search under different phone numbers obtained from Mrs F 
but couldnt find any more than it has already provided. So, I am satisfied that it has provided 
all of the call recordings it has been able to trace. 
And in any event, I am not sure how relevant recordings of conversations from 2015  for 
whatever reason they were held  would be to Mrs F opening her account in 2019. I cant 
see that something discussed in 2015 or after would add much weight to Mrs Fs argument. 
And anything said during those calls wouldnt be in relation to an account opening that took 
place several years later in 2019.
GBP denominated account
Mrs F maintains that as the shares she was transferring to Saxo were denominated in Euros 
it should have been apparent that she needed to open a base account in the same currency. 
However, I think that while she may have discussed the origin of her shares with the 
representative she was speaking with about the account opening, Mrs Fs account was a 
non-advised, execution only account so it was for her to do. 
It was Mrs F who opened her account via an online application, and it was Mrs F who chose 
the base currency for the account. Saxo has provided screenshots of what Mrs F would have 
seen at the time of application and the currency the account was opened in. As an execution 
only broker, it wasnt Saxos responsibility to advise Mrs F of what denomination her account should have been in. And Saxo has explained that Mrs F could hold or trade shares in a 
different currency to her base account. 
So, I dont find that Saxo is responsible for the initial account set up and the choice of the 
base currency being GBP rather than any other currency. That was Mrs Fs responsibility  it 
was a non-advised account. And while the shareholdings were discussed, Saxo wouldnt 
have known for sure what shares were actually being transferred until that transfer process 
was started. But in any event, it wasnt for Saxo to advise Mrs F in what currency she should 
open her account or override her instruction to open the account in GBP. 
Ive seen Mrs Fs email of 7 August 2019 saying upon opening her account she had got 
confirmation for a GBP account, but I would also need a Euro account as I do receive 
dividends in Euros. In response on the same day she was told Regarding currencies, I am 
going to send you a separate email which you should respond to stating you agree to the 
T&Cs and which currency you would like to add on to the account.
Theres no evidence of that follow up email. Theres no reference of Mrs F being prompted to 
take any further action on creating a sub account in Euros. Mrs F considers this to have 
been remiss of Saxo and it was Saxos responsibility to ensure that this was done. 
Clearly as an administrative point the separate email should have been sent to Mrs F. But 
Saxos role was limited as an execution only broker and could not carry out any action on 
Mrs Fs account without her instruction. And while not sending the email was a failing on 
Saxos behalf, it was for Mrs F to have ensured the account was opened and operating as 
she wanted. 
Im satisfied that Mrs F was aware her account was opened in GBP, as evidenced by the 
email referred to above and that she would need a Euro account. So, I would equally have 
expected Mrs F to have been aware of any action to be taken for a sub account application, 
or the need for that account to be opened which her email suggests she had already 
identified. 
Mrs F has complained about the fees charged to her account. But it was opened as GBP 
base account and so any trades in stocks not denominated in GBP would have incurred 
currency costs. For completeness I quote from the General Business Terms;
20 COMMISSIONS, CHARGES AND OTHER COSTS 
 20.1 The Client will be obliged to pay to Saxo Markets the Commissions and   
Charges set out on the Website.
            
 21.7 Saxo Markets may convert: 
i. any realised gains, losses, option premiums, commissions, interest charges 
and brokerage fees which arise in a currency other than the Clients base 
currency (i.e. the currency in which the Clients Account is denominated) to 
the Clients base currency; 
ii. any cash currency deposit to another cash currency deposit for the purpose 
of purchasing an asset denominated in a currency other than the Clients 
base currency; and 
iii. any monies held by Saxo Markets for the Client into such other currency as 
Saxo Markets considers necessary or desirable to cover the Clients 
obligations and liabilities in that currency.I dont find those Terms of Business to be unfair and I dont find them to be unique to Saxo 
with regard to currency conversions on accounts. They are what I would expect to see.    
Mrs F agreed to those Terms of Business at the outset, and I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Saxo hasnt applied those terms fairly. 
Overall, I dont have any evidence to show that it was agreed that the account would be set 
up in Euros. Mrs Fs account and relationship with Saxo was non-advised and execution 
only. It was for Mrs F to choose the denomination of the account. It wasnt something that 
Saxo could do on her behalf. 
I accept that Saxo should have responded by email as it had promised to do when Mrs F 
asked for a sub account in Euros to be set up. But Saxo has acknowledged it didnt provide 
Mrs F with the service it should have done and has offered Mrs F £250 in recognition of that. 
And in the individual circumstances of Mrs Fs complaint I think that to be a fair and 
reasonable offer. I wont be asking Saxo to do anything more. It is now for Mrs F to decide 
whether to accept that offer. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I appreciate she 
will be disappointed with the outcome, but I hope I have been able to explain how I have 
reached the conclusion that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman