DRN-3957086
The complaint
Ms Ls complaint against ReAssure Limited is about the transfer value that was paid from 
her personal pension. Its value fell significantly between when she got a quotation and when 
the transfer value was paid, which she wasnt expecting.
What happened
In brief, in December 2021 Ms Ls adviser requested a valuation for her pension. The 
valuation was provided by letter dated 15 December 2021, which was £98,061. Ms L 
subsequently applied to transfer her pension to another pension provider, and £91,373 was 
transferred in March 2022.
Ms L queried the amount transferred with ReAssure. But she didnt get a satisfactory 
explanation for the drop in value. So she referred her complaint to us. 
Ms Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She said the information sent to Ms Ls adviser explained that 
the value of the pension wasnt guaranteed. And that the transfer value would be 
recalculated once ReAssure received all the requirements to transfer. The investigator said 
no reductions or penalties applied to the transfer value. However, as Ms Ls policy was unit 
linked its value would fluctuate, and its performance was dependent on the value of the 
underlying assets. The investigator said there were almost three months between the 
December valuation and ReAssure receiving Ms Ls transfer request. And she said the 
transfer value was calculated by ReAssures actuaries to ensure that it was correct.
The investigator said although she understood that Ms L would be disappointed that the 
value was lower, she didnt think that ReAssure had done anything wrong in the 
circumstances.
Ms L didnt accept the investigators findings and so her complaint was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Ls suspicions about the values given that shed had other problems 
with the administration of her plan since ReAssure had taken it over, and also problems in 
getting answers to her queries about it. When Ms L initially made enquiries about the drop in 
transfer value she said she was a low-risk investor. And also said that a plan with another 
provider delivered exactly what they declared on their statement, which I receive (sic) at the 
same time as yours. Ms L also subsequently said her pension adviser had said she didnt 
think that the value should have dropped so much. So I can understand Ms L had lost 
confidence in what ReAssure was telling her, and against this background her reservations 
that the value transferred was correct. 
However in the correspondence exchanged with the investigator after she had sent her 
assessment of Ms Ls complaint to her Ms L said that ReAssure had eventually answered 
her questions and her adviser had confirmed that the figures were correct. She said this was 
a huge relief, but that her mind could have been set at rest a year ago. 
Ive seen ReAssures letter to Ms L dated 24 January 2023 and the information given about 
unit prices/transfer values. Ultimately, I think the key issue is for ReAssure to have 
transferred the correct amount that Ms L was entitled to, which Im satisfied it did. However I 
do agree with Ms L that the complaint could have been resolved a lot earlier if ReAssure had 
provided the same explanation/information when Ms L first queried the matter. 
Ms L has said she wants me to admonish ReAssure for its appalling customer service 
amongst other things. And, again amongst other things, tell ReAssure that it cannot give 
somebody a figure for their pension and then suddenly drop it with no explanation. She has 
referred to several other issues that relate to poor customer service provided by ReAssure. 
My role here is to consider the circumstances of the particular complaint that Ms L referred 
to us. Some of the things she has said are about other issues that she has with ReAssure. If 
she wants us to consider those complaints they would need to be considered separately.  
However in terms of admonishing ReAssure and telling it what it shouldnt do, I think its 
worth explaining that I only have limited powers, both in terms of what I can consider and 
what I can tell/require a firm to do. Our powers are set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules 
contained in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. Im only able to consider 
complaints that are about regulated activities or something ancillary to them. Whats relevant 
here is that complaint handling isnt, in itself, a regulated activity. So I cant make an award 
to Ms L purely because of the way that ReAssure handled her complaint
If ReAssure had incorrectly calculated Ms Ls transfer value I could order it to put that right. 
However I dont have any wider powers to tell firms how to conduct their business more 
generally or punish firms in some way. Those powers rest with the regulator, the FCA, albeit 
I dont think the things that Ms L has said ReAssure shouldnt do is in dispute  in essence it 
should provide a good customer service. 
There was a period of almost three months between ReAssure providing its initial valuation 
in December 2021 and the transfer in March 2022. I realise that Ms L says she is a low-risk 
investor, however my understanding is the fund she was invested in was rated medium risk. 
So on the one hand, as this was a unit linked plan there was the potential for its value to 
change in that period. But on the other, as Ive said, I think ReAssure could have resolved 
the complaint and put Ms Ls mind at rest a lot earlier if it had provided the information it did 
in January 2023, when Ms L initially complained. Ultimately though, Im satisfied that the 
transfer value paid by ReAssure was correct. 
My final decision
Accordingly, taking all the above into account. my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman