DRN-2562175
The complaint
Ms B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund to her the money that she 
paid for some visas.
What happened
Ms B used her NatWest credit card in late February 2020 to pay £112.64 for four visas for 
travel to another country for a holiday in April 2020. She was also charged a non-sterling 
transaction fee of £3.10. She became aware that the requirement for a visa ended the 
following day as she was contacted by her travel agent so she asked NatWest to cancel the 
transaction. 
It said that it couldnt cancel the transaction so Ms B complained to it. It credited both 
amounts to her account in March 2020 while it investigated her complaint. It said that Ms B 
was provided with the service that she paid for so there was no recourse under the rules and 
regulations of the card scheme and it reapplied the charge of £112.64 (but not the fee of 
£3.10) to her account.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that NatWest did all it could 
reasonably have been expected to do in terms of processing the chargeback and that it 
followed normal practice when it credited the payment to her account and then reapplied it.
Ms B has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
made the payment for the visas one day before she phoned NatWest to cancel it but it didnt 
cancel the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms B asked NatWest to cancel the payment that shed made for the visas  but shed 
received the visas and I dont consider that NatWest was able to cancel the payment;
when a customer challenges a credit card payment, I consider that its appropriate for 
the credit card provider to consider whether a chargeback claim could be made and 
whether section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is applicable;
section 75 wasnt applicable in Ms Bs circumstances because the price of each visa 
was less than the minimum price for any single item of £100 required for a claim 
under that section;
theres no right for a customer to require that a chargeback claim be made but, if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
NatWest considered whether a chargeback claim could be made for Ms Bs payment 
but, as she was provided with the service that she paid for, it said that there was no 
recourse under the applicable scheme rules;
I sympathise with Ms B because shes paid for visas that she didnt need and would 
have no benefit from, but I dont consider that there was a right for NatWest to make 
a chargeback claim in these circumstances as Ms B had received the visas that 
shed paid for - and I dont consider that there was any reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback claim being successful;
NatWest credited the payment of £112.64 and the fee of £3.10 to Ms Bs account 
while it investigated her complaint and then reapplied the payment of £112.64 when it 
didnt uphold her complaint  I consider that it was acting fairly and reasonably when 
it did that and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it acted 
incorrectly in response to Ms Bs complaint; and
I also sympathise with Ms B for the difficulties that shes described but I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require NatWest to 
refund to Ms B the £112.64 that she paid for the visas, to pay her any compensation 
or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman