DRN-3014691
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited wrongly declined a claim he made on his
motorbike insurance policy and offered him poor service.
What happened
Mr W renewed his policy with Ageas through a broker in July 2018. On 30 June 2019 his
bike was stolen from outside his home. Ageas declined the claim as Mr W had breached a
policy endorsement that said the bike should be stored in a secured building. Mr W had told
Ageas that he kept it in his garage, but at the time of the theft, it was stored outside the front
door of his house. Mr W thought Ageass decision was unfair, as in his view, the security
measures hed taken to protect the bike were superior to keeping it in a locked building.
In January 2020 Mr W complained to the broker about its service and about Ageass
decision. The broker replied to his complaint about it and passed on to Ageas the part of the
complaint that was for Ageas to address.
Mr W wrote to the broker again In July 2020 (although his 13-page letter was also meant for
Ageas, so the broker passed it on). He said he hadnt heard anything from Ageas and that
he didnt think it had investigated his claim properly. Mr W set out the way his bike had been
secured when stolen. He also said that in the 11 years hed been with the broker, hed never
been given an update on where the bike should be stored, or why. He said Ageass advisor
had acted unprofessionally when he first spoke to it about the loss of the bike, and that it
hadnt returned the documents he sent to it, despite his request for it to do so.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint about Ageas. She thought it had acted
reasonably in declining the claim. But as Ageas hadnt returned documents to Mr W, as
requested, she thought it should pay him £50 compensation.
Ageas said compensation wasnt warranted, as there was no poor service on its part other
than not returning the documents. It apologised for the oversight, but it said it didnt think that
Mr W was inconvenienced by it. Mr W said £50 compensation wasnt enough. He said apart
from not returning the documents, Ageas hadnt responded to his complaint. And he said its
advisors attitude was poor during the original call he had with Ageas. He asked for a review
of his complaint by an ombudsman. In later correspondence, Mr W said hed ticked a box to 
say the bike was kept in a garage inadvertently, and if Ageass aim was for the bike to be 
kept securely, hed complied with that. He said Ageas should have asked for photographic 
evidence of the place of storage and he listed the many security measures that were in place 
at the time of the theft. They included a five-bar gate at the end of his driveway that was 
locked and secured. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Im minded to conclude that it was reasonable for Ageas to decline Mr Ws claim. The policy 
endorsement required him to store the bike in a locked and secured building. The policy 
schedule set out the endorsement, which said that indemnity wouldnt be provided if that 
requirement wasnt met.
When he took out the cover with Ageas, Mr W agreed to all the terms of the policy and its
endorsements. But it seems Mr W didnt think his bike should be stored in a locked building,
as he believed that wasnt appropriate in his particular circumstances. Mr W could have
looked for another policy that didnt have a garaging requirement. But I think he may have
struggled to find one, as garaging endorsements are very common in motorbike policies.
Mr W says he wasnt reminded of the garaging requirement, as he didnt get any documents
in the 11 years he was with the broker. If thats the case, its for the broker to address, as it
issued the documents. But if Mr W didnt get any policy documents after renewing his policy
each year, I think it would have been reasonable for him to query that with the broker  or
with Ageas. The renewal documents that the broker says were sent to Mr W by it in 2018 (for
the period during which the bike was stolen) show the garaging and other endorsements,
plus Mr Ws tick in the box to confirm the bike was stored in his garage.
I think Mr W genuinely believed that hed taken more than enough security measures to
keep the bike safe (for instance, by deflating its tyres, using an immobiliser, locks and
chains, and by covering it up). In addition, it seems his home is in a remote location with a
very long, secured driveway. But the bike was still stolen. I think its fair to say that had the
bike been locked in his garage, it may still have been stolen. But in that event, Ageas would
have paid the claim, as Mr W would have complied with the endorsement, which he was
required to do.
In terms of Ageass service, Mr W says he didnt hear from it at all, either about the decline
of the claim or its decision about his complaint. Ageas has shown that the claim was
discussed with Mr W in July 2019, and again in November 2019 - when he was told the
claim wasnt covered and why. Ageass notes also show that Mr W discussed the decline of
the claim with Ageas again on 3 August 2020.
I think Ageas has shown that it issued a final response letter to Mr W in response to his
complaint on 22 November 2019. It has provided evidence that the letter was generated on
its system on that date, so I think its far more likely than not that it was sent to Mr W,
whether he received it or not. Ageas cant be blamed for postal failures.
As Mr W told the broker in January 2020 that he hadnt heard from Ageas, Ageas issued a
further final response letter on 21 February 2020. The system notes show that this letter was
generated on the stated date, so I think its more than likely that it too was sent to Mr W. The
second final response letter contained the same details as the previous one - but Ageas also
noted in it that Mr Ws driveway was gated (which made no difference to the outcome).
Mr W says another of Ageass service failures was that its advisor was unprofessional when
he first reported the claim. He said the advisor was only concerned about the policy excess
and the value of the bike. It isnt unusual for insurers and brokers to highlight these issues. In
some cases, consumers have to think carefully about whether to make a claim, depending
on the relative values of the excess and the vehicle in question. In this case, we asked
Ageas for a copy of the call recording, to check whether there was evidence of a lack of
professionalism on the advisors part, but it said Mr W made the first call to the broker.
Something that upset Mr W greatly was that Ageas didnt return to him the documents hed
sent to it when it was validating the claim. Ageas accepts that it didnt do that, but it doesnt
agree that Mr W asked for the documents to be returned. It has pointed out that Mr W didnt
refer to that when he spoke to its advisors. But it accepts that he made a reference to it in
the 13-page handwritten letter he sent to the broker in July 2020.
Ageas has apologised to Mr W for not noting that one reference (made well after it had
issued its final response letters). It offered to send the paperwork back to him. I think that
was a reasonable way to deal with the issue. The documents on the file (including a letter
from the broker to Ageas in February 2020, which set out Mr Ws concerns) dont show thathed complained about the non-return of the documents. Mr W may have wanted then back,
but I dont think hes shown that he was inconvenienced by that not happening, or that he
faced any detriment as a result of it. In any event, Im minded to conclude that it wouldnt be
fair and reasonable to require Ageas to pay compensation for an issue that doesnt appear
to have been part of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has given us some details of his personal situation. He says this was the first theft
claim hed made in well over 50 years of insuring a motor bike. And at the time of the theft,
hed recently suffered a bereavement, so undoubtedly the claims decline would have had
more impact on him than it otherwise might have done. I think Ageass decision came as a
real shock, given that Mr W had continued to insure the bike (even though it was registered
as off the road and wasnt being used) and that he believed his security measures were
watertight. Mr W has said that hes retired, and that at his age, if the claim isnt paid, it may
mean the premature end of a very long biking history for him.
I sympathise with Mr W, given the situation he has found himself in, and I appreciate that
hed genuinely distressed by what has happened. But in order to uphold his complaint, Id
have to be persuaded that there was evidence of Ageas having acted unreasonably in
declining his claim and / or that it had provided poor service. For the reasons stated above,
based on what Ive seen so far, I think the claims decline was fair. And I dont think Mr W
has shown that Ageass service was poor. So Im minded not to uphold his complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Ageas said it had nothing to add, 
and Mr W didnt respond at all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman