DRN-2739337
The complaint
Mr K complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) refused to agree a payment 
arrangement and went on to obtain a County Court Judgement on behalf of its client.
 
What happened
In December 2019 CRS was appointed to collect a debt by a third party business. After CRS 
made contact with Mr K he complained. Mr K said a previous complaint hadnt been handled 
properly and said he wanted an apology. CRS issued two final responses but didnt agree it 
had treated Mr K unfairly and didnt offer any compensation. 
Mr K responded and said CRS had failed to deal with his complaints in full. CRS later 
contacted Mr K and asked him to complete an income and expenditure assessment to agree 
a payment arrangement. Mr K offered £1 a month but didnt complete the budget planner. 
In May 2020 Mr K emailed CRS and said his previous complaint hadnt been resolved. Mr K 
said the account should be on hold as a result. Mr K sent follow up emails but no responses 
were received. In June 2020 CRS emailed Mr K and explained again that it wasnt willing to 
accept his offer without completion of an income and expenditure assessment. 
As no payment arrangement was in place, CRS took legal action and referred the matter to 
the court. CRS legal representatives wrote to Mr K before the court date and asked him to 
make a payment. Mr K continued to email CRS about his complaint during this time but 
didnt complete the income and expenditure assessment. In September 2020 CRS 
successfully acquired a CCJ in Mr Ks name. Court costs were added to the debt. 
Mr K referred the matter to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
think CRS had acted unfairly when it obtained a CCJ. Mr K asked to appeal and said his 
account shouldve been on hold whilst it investigated his complaint. Mr K also said he had 
emailed CRS to say the claim form had been returned and that it shouldve had a system in 
place to notify a customer if important documents arent received. Mr K asked to appeal, so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive read all the emails and information Mr K sent to CRS after it took over management of 
his account. I can see Mr K made several complaints to CRS and that he repeatedly emailed 
it asking for more responses. Mr K explained he was unhappy with the outcome of previous 
complaints and raised some additional concerns. I understand Mr K feels CRS shouldve 
placed collections activity on hold whilst his complaint was ongoing and that its decision to 
enforce the debt in court was unreasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent been persuaded that CRS behaved unreasonably 
in this case. I appreciate Mr K had a previous complaint about CRS that was referred to this 
service and that he asked it to relook at the outcome. But once a business issues a final 
response and provides referral rights for this service, it doesnt have to comment further. As 
Mr K has said, his original complaint was ultimately referred to this service and considered 
as a separate matter. I wouldnt expect CRS to correspond further on the same issues. 
In much the same way, CRS issued two final responses to Mr Ks complaints, one in 
January and another in February 2020. Both those final responses explained CRS didnt 
uphold Mr Ks complaints and provided referral rights for this service. Ive read all Mr Ks 
emails to CRS and can see at one point he withdrew his complaint but reinstated it a short 
time later. I accept CRS didnt respond to these emails, but as they were largely in line with 
previous complaints it had already dealt with, Im satisfied a final response and associated 
referral rights had already been provided. 
CRS said it couldnt set up a formal payment arrangement without Mr K completing an 
income and expenditure assessment. I can see Mr K has given details of his income and 
outstanding debts. But no income and expenditure assessment was completed. CRS is 
obliged to verify whether a payment arrangement is affordable and the budget planner it 
asked for wouldve helped with that process. I can see many occasions where CRS told Mr 
K he needed to complete the process to set up a formal plan and Im satisfied it acted fairly 
by declining his offer without it. 
Mr K says he posted the claims form back to CRS in August 2020 but that it took him to 
court in any case. CRS says it never received Mr Ks claim form. Ive looked at both CRS 
and its legal teams correspondence logs for this period but can see nothing that shows Mr 
Ks claim form was received. Mr K says he thinks a process should be in place to notify 
customers if the claim form isnt received. But Mr Ks email to CRS didnt say whether the 
claim form had been returned to its legal representatives or the court. And the claim form 
can be sent back to either party, depending the response. I dont agree CRS acted unfairly 
when it didnt acknowledge Mr Ks email confirmation the claim form had been returned. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K but I dont agree CRS acted unfairly by seeking a CCJ for 
its clients after a payment arrangement wasnt set up. I appreciate Mr K complained, but Im 
satisfied CRS issued final responses as required. As Im satisfied CRS hasnt treated Mr K 
unfairly and that its decision to obtain a CCJ was reasonable Im not telling it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman