DRN-2047193
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about the delays caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC when they re-
mortgaged their property to renovate it. Mrs S and Mr S want financial compensation and an 
apology.  
What happened
Mr S had a mortgage in his own name on a property when he wanted to renovate. He met a 
Barclays mortgage adviser in 6 March 2019 about borrowing money to do substantial 
renovations to the property. Ive been provided with a large amount of detail about the 
events that followed. By way of background, I provide below a brief summary of what 
happened:
Mr S got a mortgage offer for a new mortgage product and additional borrowing on 
23 March 2019.
In April Barclays told Mr S that the offer wasnt valid. Mr S complained and was told 
that he had a firm offer.
Mr S and Mrs S began the demolition works based on this information.
Mr S was told that he needed to re-apply, this time with Mrs S. Mrs S and Mr S 
submitted a new application on 18 April.
The new application required a valuation of the property. It took six weeks to 
complete this process. As the property was at that stage a building site, the valuation 
was originally nil but on review changed to the original valuation.
There was a further delay in completing the legal process and a date of completion 
was set for 6 August.
On 6 August Barclays produced a further mortgage offer that Mrs S and Mr S were 
required to accept before the money was finally released.
Although Mrs S and Mr S had anticipated drawing down the mortgage by July, as things 
turned out, the money was needed by the middle of June and Mrs S and Mr S understood 
that if the process had been done efficiently, they should have been able to draw down the 
money at that time with 15 days notice. Because of the delay Mrs S and Mr S had to borrow 
money from family and friends. Barclays upheld this complaint and offered £400 in 
compensation. Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld, and his 
view was that £600 was fairer compensation. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed and asked for a 
review. Barclays also disagreed and said that it felt that the £400 it offered more represented 
Mrs S and Mr Ss trouble and upset than that suggested by our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Barclays didnt provide an acceptable service in processing this 
mortgage application and that compensation should be paid to Mrs S and Mr S. The 
question is how much? As Barclays says in its letter of 25 August 2019 the process took five 
months and I believe four mortgage offers were issued. There is no suggestion that Mrs S 
and Mr S were responsible for any of the delay but clearly over this period that would have 
spent a good deal of time and trouble complying with Barclays requests in connection with 
the several mortgage applications. At the same time as the application process was going 
on, Mrs S and Mr S had started the renovation of their house. 
I can understand Mrs S and Mr Ss concerns caused by the uncertainty about whether they 
were going to get the mortgage or not which was hanging over them when they would have 
reasonably believed that it all should have been sorted way back in March when the first 
offer issued. This was a substantial renovation and I have to factor in the possibility they 
faced of losing the finance for it when it had already been promised and they went ahead 
with their plans on that basis.
Barclays believes that our investigators proposed award was too much, and I note that it 
makes the points that the demolition work only started in June which meant that it was 
unlikely that Mrs S and Mr S would have used up their own funds before they got access to 
the banks money in August. But the banks timeline tells me that on 7 May there was a call 
with the customer about the survey and at that stage the kitchen and bathroom had been 
ripped out so clearly the demolition part of the work and related expenditure had started 
before that date. Its reasonable that Mrs S and Mr S would have concerns from then on 
about how the property would be valued and whether they would in fact get their finance.
Ive also given careful consideration to Mrs S and Mr Ss further points. I do consider the 
delay was unreasonable and I do understand the uncertainty and financial vulnerability they 
faced given the amount of money involved. But my view is that the amount suggested by our 
investigator fairly reflects the trouble and upset they endured, and I shall make an award of 
£600 in this case. I also dont believe that as the mortgage adviser was acting on behalf of 
the company that a personal apology is appropriate. So, for the above reasons I uphold this 
complaint and award Mrs S and Mr S £600.
    
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs S and Mr S £600.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs S and Mr S the 
compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman