DRN-4400192
The complaint
Mr C complains about how his insurer, Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) 
dealt with the write off of his vehicle after an accident under his motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Mulsanne in this decision includes their agents. 
This decision covers Mr Cs complaint to this Service in May 2023, following Mulsannes final 
response earlier that month. It doesnt cover further elements of complaint raised by Mr C in 
November 2023, primarily his not being able to purchase his vehicle after it being declared a 
total loss, which would be considered as a separate complaint.
This decision also covers Mr Cs complaint against Mulsanne as the insurer of his policy. It 
doesnt cover the finance provider for his vehicle, a separate business.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr C was involved in an accident in which his vehicle suffered significant 
water damage to the engine and electrics from driving through flood water, with emergency 
services conducting vehicles through the floodwater. Unfortunately Mr Cs vehicle stalled, 
and the electrics stopped working, including the odometer. The vehicle was recovered to a 
garage and then subsequently to a garage appointed by Mulsanne.
 
Mulsanne appointed an engineer to inspect the vehicle, who concluded it was a total loss 
and should be written off. Mulsanne then reviewed the vehicle to determine a Pre-Accident 
Value (PAV) which they estimated as £27,314. Mulsanne then deducted the policy excess 
(£600) and a proportionate reduction of £4,080.71 (14.94%). 
Mulsanne applied a proportionate reduction because when Mr C took out the policy he 
estimated his annual mileage as 5,000 miles. However, when he notified Mulsanne of the 
accident he told them his annual mileage was 12,000 miles and the approximate mileage of 
the vehicle at the date of the accident was 91,000 miles. Mulsanne then took the mileage 
figures from the vehicles two previous MOT tests and calculated the vehicle had travelled an 
estimated 67.44 miles per day. Applying this figure from the renewal of the policy before the 
date of the accident, Mulsanne estimated the vehicle had covered 17,400 miles. Adding this 
to the 71,909 mileage figure from the vehicles most recent MOT certificate, Mulsanne 
estimated the mileage at the time of the accident was 89,309 miles. Which was within 2,000 
miles of the 91,000 miles figure Mr C had provided. 
Based on their estimate, Mulsanne said had Mr C declared an accurate annual mileage 
figure when he took out his policy, the premium would have been 14.94% higher than the 
actual premium (which was based on Mr Cs estimated 5,000 annual mileage). So, 
Mulsanne were applying a proportionate reduction of 14.94% in accordance with the 
provisions of the Insurance Act 2015.
Unhappy at Mulsanne applying a proportionate reduction, Mr C complained. He said it was 
unfair to use the two previous mileage readings from the vehicles MOT as the vehicle had 
been used by his wife at the time. Hed only started driving the vehicle when he changed 
roles in his employment. The vehicles hed previously used indicated lower annual mileage 
figures. He said hed only given an estimate (plucked from the air) of the vehicles mileage 
at the time of the accident and the 12,000 miles annual mileage was the mileage limit under 
his finance agreement.
Mulsanne didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they maintained their view 
about the estimated mileage of the vehicle at the time of the accident and this was close to 
the figure Mr C provided when telling them about the accident. Based on this, Mulsanne said 
theyd correctly applied a proportionate reduction to Mr Cs claim, reflecting the higher 
premium had the information provided by Mr C at the start of the policy been accurate. In 
applying a proportionate reduction, Mulsanne were applying a remedy under the Insurance 
Act 2015. Mulsanne also said details of annual mileages Mr C said he travelled in previous 
vehicles werent relevant, as they were concerned with his current vehicle. 
Mulsanne issued a separate final response in respect of issues raised by Mr C about the 
handling of his claim, its progression and communication and engagement with Mulsanne. 
Mulsanne upheld this complaint, apologising for the service they provided didnt meet Mr Cs 
expectations. Mulsanne referred to a delay in obtaining the vehicle registration, for which 
they didnt think they were responsible. But they accepted the communication from the 
claims team was poor, for which they apologised, but they needed to obtain a mileage figure 
for the vehicle at the date of the accident.
Mr C then complained to this service. He said the mileage figure for his vehicle when telling 
Mulsanne about the accident was what he thought the approximate mileage was (as the 
odometer was damaged in the accident). The only verified mileage figure for the vehicle was 
from the MOT certificate issued in March 2022 (71,909 miles). Hed wrongly given the figure 
of 91,000 miles when notifying Mulsanne of the accident and had to hire cars and the 
finance provider for the car was threatening him with legal action. He wanted Mulsanne to 
pay the difference on the claim and settle the balloon figure with the finance provider. He 
also wanted the option to buy his written off vehicle and collect his belongings. He also 
wanted compensation for delays and stress hed suffered.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint in part. While he thought it reasonable for 
Mulsanne to settle the claim on a proportionate basis under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), he thought Mulsanne had incorrectly 
estimated the mileage of Mr Cs vehicle. While they would still have insured Mr Cs vehicle 
had he disclosed the true annual mileage at the inception of the policy, they would have 
charged a higher premium. Mulsanne had used the policy inception date  not the date of the 
last MOT of the vehicle, when estimating the mileage figure  a 3,035 mile difference. The 
investigator thought Mulsanne should revisit their proportionate mileage figure. 
On the issue of progression of the claim and the communication with Mr C, the investigator 
thought Mulsanne acted fairly and reasonably in upholding the element of Mr Cs complaint. 
He thought Mulsanne could have been more proactive in their communication, although the 
impact of this was minimal and didnt affect the date the claim was settled.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators initial view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the investigators view didnt take account of the fact that the 12,000 mile 
figure hed provided was the annual mileage limit under his finance agreement. He didnt 
think the mileage figure used to calculate the proportionate reduction reflected his current 
role, which involved fewer business miles. He also wasnt given the opportunity to buy the 
vehicle after it had been written off, which he wanted to do.Mr C also provided further information about the mileage for his vehicle, principally an MOT 
test certificate dated 28 July 2023 which recorded the vehicle mileage as 76,204 miles, and 
the previously recorded mileage of 71,909 miles in the MOT certificate dated 24 March 2023.
Based on the new information, our investigator issued a second view upholding the 
complaint. Given new MOT test certificate, the investigator concluded Mr Cs vehicle hadnt 
exceeded the 5,000 mile estimated annual mileage hed stated when taking out his policy. 
So, the investigator concluded Mulsanne should settle Mr Cs claim in full, without a 
proportionate reduction, as he hadnt made a misrepresentation about his annual mileage.
Mulsanne considered the additional evidence and revised view, but they disagreed and 
requested an ombudsman review the complaint. They said the more recent MOT evidence 
wasnt admissible as the vehicle was off the road at the time if the accident and the engineer 
unable to obtain a mileage figure as the odometer wasnt working. And Mr C told them he 
travelled 12,000 miles and estimated the mileage at the time of the accident as 91,000 miles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Mulsanne has acted fairly towards Mr C.
The key issue in Mr Cs complaint is whether Mulsanne acted fairly in applying a 
proportionate reduction to the settlement value of his claim. From what Ive seen and from 
Mr Cs complaint, it isnt about the valuation of the vehicle (PAV) before application of the 
proportionate reduction. The other issue is engagement and communication from Mulsanne.
On the first issue, Mr C maintains he gave what he thought an approximate figure for the 
vehicles mileage at the time of the accident, and the 12,000 annual mileage figure was the 
limit under his finance agreement. And he was travelling fewer miles annually due to a 
change in his job role. Previous annual mileages of other  cars hed used showed hed 
driven fewer miles annually. Mulsanne say they calculated an estimated mileage at the time 
of the accident from previous MOT mileage figures, and their estimate was within a couple of 
thousand miles of the figure Mr C gave them when telling them of the accident.
In considering both points of view, Ive looked at the policy in force at the time of the 
accident. The Policy Schedule indicates the insurance ran from 7 February 2022 to 6 
February 2023, with a £600 total excess (compulsory and voluntary) for accidental damage. 
The date of the accident was 23 October 2022 (the date of claim is recorded by Mulsanne as 
24 October). The Statement of Fact document issued at the time the policy was taken out, 
and on which facts the policy was issued, states a Total Annual Mileage of 5,000 miles with 
Mr C as the registered keeper and owner. The certificate of Insurance lists only Mr C as the 
insured driver of the vehicle.
Ive also noted the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) includes the following 
requirements under a heading What are my obligations:
-You must take reasonable care to answer our questions honestly, with accurate 
and complete information.
-You must inform us without delay if any information on your Statement of Fact or 
Policy Schedule is incorrect or changesThe full Policy document also sets out, under a heading Changes to your insurance, the 
following statement:
It is important that you tell us immediately about any changes to the information that 
you have provided which is detailed in your statement of fact schedule and certificate 
of motor insuranceFailure to notify us of any changes may result in your policy not 
being valid and we may not pay your claim or only pay part of your claim. We may 
also cancel or void your policy.
I think this makes it clear that a change in the information supplied, including a mileage 
different to (or likely to be different to) that declared in the Statement of Fact document 
should have been disclosed. Or as is the case here, information on the ,mileage at the time 
of the accident indicates a higher mileage figure to that in the Statement of Fact. In terms of 
the remedy applied, I note Mulsanne applied a proportionate reduction to the settlement 
offered to Mr C under the Insurance Act 2015. In the circumstances of the case I dont think 
that was unreasonable at the time, given the information available, including that provided by 
Mr C and in the absence of a definitive mileage reading from the vehicle odometer. They 
didnt seek to cancel or void the policy for misrepresentation under CIDRA, so Ive not 
considered this in detail.
Looking at the first obligation, Mr C says he only provided an estimate  plucked from the 
air in his words - of the mileage of his vehicle when telling Mulsanne of the accident. While 
this may have been the case, it didnt relieve Mr C of the obligation to provide a reasonably 
accurate mileage figure, in the absence of a verifiable figure from the odometer (the 
engineer said the mileage couldnt be obtained from the damaged odometer). As Mr C had 
driven the vehicle up to and including the date of the accident, I also think its reasonable to 
expect he would have had some idea of the vehicle mileage, if not the exact figure.
Mulsanne based their estimate of the vehicle mileage from the previous two MOT mileage 
figures  46,688 miles on 15 March 2021 and 71,909 miles on 24 March 2022. Mulsannes 
calculation of the estimated mileage figure at the date of the accident is based on a total of 
25,221 miles in the 374 days between the 2021 and 2022 MOT dates, an average of 67.44 
miles per day. Applying this daily average figure to the 258 days between the policy 
inception date of 7 February 2022 to the date of the incident of 23 October 2022 gives an 
estimated 17,400 miles. Adding this figure to the 71,909 mileage figure from the March 2022 
MOT mileage figure of 71,909 miles gives an estimated mileage of 89,309 miles, Which is 
1,691 less than the 91,000 figure provided by Mr C.
Mulsanne calculated that applying the 17,400 mileage figure to the policy (rather than the 
5,000 mileage estimate provided when the policy was taken out would have meant an 
annual premium of £1,771.90 rather than the actual premium of £1,507.21. This former is 
14.94% higher than the latter, which is the proportionate reduction applied by Mulsanne.
While I can understand why Mulsanne came to their decision to apply a proportionate 
reduction in the circumstances and information available at the time, Ive considered the 
points made by Mr C, including the new information hes supplied from the most recent MOT 
test certificate for the vehicle. I also recognise the points hes made about a change of role 
and that his wife was previously driving the vehicle.
The most recent MOT test certificate records the vehicle mileage as 76,204 miles on 28 July 
2023. It also includes the same 71,909 mileage figure recorded on the previous MOT test 
certificate dated 24 March 2022. The difference between the two figures is 4,295 miles. 
Which means that whatever the actual mileage figure was at the date of the accident, Mr C 
cant have covered more than 5,000 miles. So, this would have been within the figure of 5,000 miles he gave when taking out the policy. It follows he didnt make a misrepresentation 
when taking out the policy. 
While he gave an inaccurate estimate of the mileage when reporting the accident, it was the 
absence of an independently-obtained odometer mileage reading that led Mulsanne to use 
the figure initially supplied by Mr C. But the new evidence from the most recent MOT test 
certificate shows this estimate was incorrect. 
Mulsanne say the new evidence from the MOT test certificate isnt admissible. But they 
havent said why they believe this, nor have they sought to question the validity of the 
certificate, which our investigator has independently verified. That being the case, while the 
new evidence provides retrospective information about the vehicles mileage at the date of 
the accident, Im persuaded it supports Mr Cs other points about his previous mileages in 
other vehicles and what hes said about his change in role and consequent lower mileage 
whilst on business.
So, Ive concluded its reasonable to use the new evidence and information to decide 
whether Mulsanne have  in the light of the new evidence  fairly and reasonably applied a 
proportionate reduction. My conclusion is they havent.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what Mulsanne need to do to put things 
right. As Ive concluded they havent acted fairly and reasonably in applying a proportionate 
reduction, then they should reimburse Mr C the proportionate reduction they applied to the 
settlement figure (£4,080.71). 
As they applied the proportionate reduction to the settlement paid to Mr C, I also think they 
should add interest on the reduction, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they paid Mr C the 
balance of the settlement (after theyve paid the finance provider) to the date they reimburse 
Mr C, assuming he accepts my final decision.
Ive also considered the issue of the time to progress the claim and the communication and 
engagement between Mr C and Mulsanne. Looking at the sequence of events, the accident 
was notified in October 2022, following which the vehicle was recovered to Mulsannes 
salvage agent and inspected by the engineer, declaring it a total loss, at the beginning of 
November 2022. Mulsannes case notes indicate Mr C contacting them for updates in the 
following weeks, but with some delay in Mulsanne obtaining the vehicles registration 
document from Mr C (it wasnt in the vehicle as he originally thought) and the notes indicate 
it was only provided by Mr C at the beginning of February 2023. The policy document 
requires the policyholder to send the registration document to the insurer where a vehicle is 
declared a total loss, so I cant hold Mulsanne responsible for the delay in Mr C providing the 
registration document.
Notwithstanding these points, the case notes indicate Mulsanne accept they took too long to 
provide a settlement offer to Mr C (the beginning of March 2023) and he hadnt received 
updates on a timely and reasonable basis. So, Mulsanne have acted reasonably in 
upholding that aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to:Reimburse Mr C for the proportionate reduction they applied to his claim (£4,080.71).
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should also add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on 
the reimbursed proportionate reduction, from the date they made the original settlement 
payment to Mr C to the date they reimburse Mr C the proportionate reduction, assuming Mr 
C accepts my final decision.
If Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited consider theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman