DRN-2861540
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr K, a director of L, has complained on Ls behalf. L has also been helped in bringing its 
complaint by a representative. However, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of L.
What happened
L held a business interruption insurance policy with AIG. L claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.
AIG turned down Ls claim. They said that the core business interruption section and a 
number of exclusions required the business interruption to be due to damage to property and 
Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They added that while the policy did cover a 
specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. 
As L was unhappy with AIGs response it brought its complaint to our service. L thinks that 
various parts of the policy provide cover. Ive set out a summary of its reasoning for this 
below.
Damage
L said that its business closed in March 2020 as a result of the Governments response
to the pandemic. L said the core loss of income cover under the policy covers accidental
physical damage and the policys damage definition of physical loss or destruction of or 
damage to Property should include the loss of use of its premises. 
L referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to
support its view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of its
business due to Covid-19.
Specified and unspecified suppliers and specified and unspecified customers
L said its suppliers had suffered damage from Covid-19 and the resulting restrictions placed 
on their businesses and premises. It said this hindered the services those business could 
provide to L before it was forced to close. L said it continues to suffer from supply chain 
issues.
L also said that its customers have suffered damage due to the Government-ordered 
lockdown. 
Denial of access
L said that social distancing measures hindered access to its business and access was 
prevented by the Government Regulations.
Infectious diseases
L thinks that its claim should be covered under two parts of the infectious disease extension. 
It said there were people within 25 miles of its business premises who had Covid-19 and so 
it also most likely manifested at its premises. 
L said that the list of diseases covered under the policy are notifiable diseases as listed 
under the Health Protection (Notifiable) Regulations 2010, including SARS. L said that 
Covid-19 couldnt have been included in the list as it wasnt known about at the time the 
policy was entered in to. However, as SARS is covered this should also cover Covid-19 and 
the inclusion of SARS gave L a reasonable expectation that it would be covered. 
L said there is nothing to say the list is exhaustive and if it was AIGs intention to exclude 
Covid-19 then the policy would have specifically said it excludes new diseases. L added that 
there isnt a specific exclusion for pandemics or epidemics.
L also said that its premises had been closed due to defects in the sanitary arrangements. It 
said the dictionary definition of sanitary indicated that as L had been closed for health 
reasons cover should apply under this extension.
Other factors
L also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances. It added that where a policy is
ambiguous it should be read in favour of the policyholder.
L also said that it had complied with all conditions of the policy and shouldnt be penalised 
for any ambiguity in the policy.
Initial assessment
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Ls claim. 
L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In particular, it referred to the like for 
likeness of SARS and Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has referred to a number of periods of closure and business interruption. In this decision I 
am only commenting on the closure which commenced in March 2020. Any further periods 
of business interruption would need to be considered separately. 
L has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead 
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ls claim.
The core loss of income section of Ls policy provides cover for:
Business Interruption occurring in the Indemnity Period following an Incident 
during the Period of Insurance caused by the operation of a Specified Peril 
insured under Material Damage Section
An incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at
the Premises
The policy defines Damage as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property
For this part of the policy to provide cover the interruption to Ls business would need to
be as a result of damage, caused by a specified peril, to insured property used by L at
its business premises. One of the specified perils is accidental physical damage and its 
under this peril that L thinks its claim should be covered. However, I dont think this would 
provide cover for Ls claim, because I dont think the interruption to its business was due to 
Covid-19 causing damage to property at its premises.
L has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. While Ive
considered this case, Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ls 
claim, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), 
Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands
Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ls property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the
cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ls
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings
doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive
amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Ls property. And the presence of any particular virus isnt
automatically damage. So, I dont think Covid-19 has damaged Ls property because
there is no evidence that SARSCoV-2 has caused any physical change or altered the state
of any property which resulted in interruption to its business.
Specified and unspecified suppliers and specified and unspecified customers
This extension provides cover for business interruption in consequence of an incident at 
either Ls suppliers or customers premises. Therefore, Ls loss would need to be due to 
damage to property at either Ls suppliers or customers premises. For the reasons set out 
above, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused damage to property and Ls suppliers or customers premises and therefore this extension doesnt cover its 
claim. 
Denial of access
This extension requires the interruption to Ls business to be as a result of damage to 
property in the vicinity which hinders or prevents access to Ls premises. While access to Ls 
premises might have been prevented or hindered, I havent seen anything to persuade me 
that was because of damage to property for the reasons set out above. 
Infectious diseases
This extension says that it extends cover to include interruption or interference with Ls
business in consequence of closure (all or part of) of the premises on the order or advice of 
any government or local authority as a result of:
1) any human infectious or contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any
person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises

4) defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the Premises
Under the heading Section Definitions the policy says that wherever the following words
appear with an upper case letter they will have a specific definition. The definition for
Disease sets out a list of any of the following diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something AIG might have known about when the policy
was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable diseases. While I
accept that this list generally reflects the Government-defined list of notifiable diseases, Ls 
policy does not say that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of 
diseases which are covered by the policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. I think that setting out that the policy
covers the following diseases shows that it is an exhaustive list.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive carefully considered the points L 
has made to decide whether this would extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think 
SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same.
I think the policy clearly sets out that it covers a defined list of diseases. And I dont think that 
by including SARS in the list of diseases AIG set a reasonable expectation that Covid-19 
would be covered.  
As I dont think this extension provides cover for any disease not listed in the definition, I
dont think its relevant to Ls claim whether or not there was anyone with Covid-19
within a 25 mile radius of its business premises.For 4) to provide cover the closure of Ls premises would need to be as a result of
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at its business premises.
While the dictionary definition might relate to health or preventing the spread of disease, I
think this extension would reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems
with the premises toilets or washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to
prevent the spread of a disease. In any event, I dont think the Governments advice on
social distancing or requiring businesses to close was due to a defect in their sanitary
arrangements as businesses were required to close irrespective of their sanitary
arrangements.
Other factors
Although L might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood the 
same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on the 
wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ls policy provides cover for 
its claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and
I dont think its relevant that L followed the conditions in the policy, as its claim isnt covered.
I understand this isnt the outcome L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay Ls claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman