DRN-3230533
The complaint
Mr M complains that a mistake by Equifax Limited led to him being contacted about a debt 
that had nothing to do with him.
What happened
Mr M was unhappy that a business I will refer to as C asked him to repay a debt that he 
didnt owe. C explained that it had obtained an address for Mr M from Equifax.
Equifax told Mr M that it carries out searches on behalf of businesses such as C. But that 
when it gives a business an address link for a customer, this would only be a possible 
address match. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Equifax only gave C a possible link. The investigator thought that Equifax responded 
reasonably to Mr Ms concerns when it confirmed there was no account on his credit file that 
linked him to C. And that although C had carried out some soft searches on Mr Ms credit 
file, these wouldnt have a negative impact on him.
Mr M is unhappy that C and Equifax appear to be blaming each other. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M found himself stuck in the middle of a situation that he had nothing to do 
with. Ive previously looked at Mr Ms complaint about C so Im familiar with the 
circumstances.  
I appreciate that through Equifax, C obtained a telephone number that it thought was related 
to someone who owed a debt. But the telephone number belonged to Mr M who had nothing 
to do with the debt owed to C. 
As upsetting as this was for Mr M, I cant find that Equifax was wrong to supply the number 
to C. By doing this, Equifax was giving C possible information with which to contact its 
customer. Its unfortunate that Mr M and Cs customer seem to share very similar personal 
information but I dont think I can blame Equifax for this.
Im satisfied that once Mr M made Equifax aware of the problem it responded reasonably. 
Equifax checked that there wasnt an account in the name of C on Mr Ms credit file. And it 
reassured Mr M that the soft searches that C had carried out, wouldnt affect his credit file.
Overall, I consider Equifax treated Mr M reasonably so I dont require it to take any further 
steps or pay compensation.    
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman