DRN-2102579
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds decision to reject 
a theft claim he made under his car insurance policy. Watford Insurance said Mr S didnt tell 
it about a change in occupation after he bought the policy. 
All reference to the insurer Watford Insurance in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr S renewed his car insurance policy through a broker in April 2019. He said his occupation 
was unchanged from the year before as an office manager for a food market.
In October 2019 Mr S reported the theft of his car to the police and his insurer, Watford. 
During its investigation it discovered that Mr S had changed occupation earlier in October 
2019 to a chef at a takeaway business. Watford said if it had known about the change in 
occupation it wouldnt have continued cover for Mr S as this wasnt an occupation it 
accepted risk for. So it said it would have cancelled Mr Ss policy before the theft happened.
Watford said it made Mr S aware of the need for him to tell it about a change in occupation in 
his renewal policy documents. It cancelled Mr Ss policy from the date he changed 
occupation. And this meant it wouldnt provide cover for Mr S for the incident. It said it would 
meet any third party claim in line with the Road Traffic Act as the last insurer. But it would 
pursue Mr S for the costs of the claim under its right to recovery. 
Mr S complained to Watford. He said he couldnt access his full policy wording without 
having to separately go to the brokers website. This document wasnt available in the same 
format as his other key documents at renewal. He didnt think hed been clearly alerted to the 
importance of telling Watford about a change of job mid - term. If he had, Mr S said he would 
have let Watford know then. Mr S said his father was ill at the time he changed jobs and 
contacting the insurer wasnt at the forefront of his mind. 
Our investigator thought Watford hadnt made it sufficiently clear as to the significance of not 
telling it about a change of job mid-term. Although it was set out in the policy document, it 
wasnt highlighted as significant in any key documents provided at renewal. She thought it 
unfair for Watford to not continue to provide cover  even though it provided underwriting 
evidence to show it wouldnt  for Mr Ss change in job. Fundamentally she said the risk 
hadnt significantly changed. So while she thought it would be reasonable to decide not to 
provide cover at renewal, she didnt think it fair for Watford to cancel the policy mid-term 
(and therefore reject Mr Ss claim).
She recommended that Watford should do the following:
Reinstate the policy.
Deal with the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Watford shouldnt seek reimbursement for the costs incurred in the claim
from Mr S.
Mr Ss record on the Claims Underwriting Exchange database should be
amended to remove any cancellation that may have been recorded against him.
Pay £350 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
Watford didnt agree. It said the need to advise of a change of job was highlighted in the 
policy summary as a condensed version of the full policy wording. It doesnt agree that a 
change in occupation isnt a fundamental change of risk. 
Watford confirmed that it hasnt received a claim from a third party, and it doesnt intend to 
pursue Mr S for the investigation claim costs. 
Mr S has told us he hasnt bought a replacement car and so he hasnt bought car insurance 
elsewhere. He is waiting for a decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On page 18 of the full policy wording, the policy reads under the title Your Duty- changes 
which may affect your cover
If Your circumstances change throughout the Period of Insurance You must tell Your 
Broker, whether You believe this is relevant to Us or not. The list below is not 
exhaustive but gives You an indication of changes You should tell Us or Your Broker 
about: 
Followed by a list which includes:
You or anyone covered by this Policy ceasing or changing jobs, or starting a new 
job, including any part-timework.
The policy summary which Watford refers to reads:
It is important that you provide honest and accurate information when purchasing, 
amending and renewing Your insurance Policy. Failure to do so could result in Your 
Policy becoming invalid and not affording You cover in the event of an incident.
If Your circumstances change throughout the Period of Insurance You must tell Your 
Broker, whether You believe this is relevant to Us or not. Section 18 of your Policy 
Wording provides full details and examples of what kind of information you must 
make us aware of.
Its generally accepted that a customer may change jobs sometimes more than once in a 
policy year. Unless the change in job changes the fundamental risk  such as a delivery 
driver for example  we dont think its fair for an insurer to make a mid-term charge or 
cancel a policy for a change in job. 
This is because the consequences of cancelling a policy mid-term for a customer can be 
considerable. And we wouldn't expect an insurer to normally vary a contract unilaterally after 
it has been agreed - as it can create a significant imbalance in the parties rights and 
obligations.I think Watford should have done more to highlight the consequences of not advising it of a 
change of job mid-term in the policy summary Mr S received at renewal. I dont think its 
decision to cancel Mr Ss policy and reject his theft claim in his circumstances was 
reasonable. So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right and Im 
upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
Reinstate Mr Ss policy.
Deal with his theft claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Watford shouldnt seek reimbursement for the costs incurred in the claim
from Mr S.
Mr Ss record on the Claims Underwriting Exchange database should be
amended to remove any cancellation that may have been recorded against him.
Pay Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman