DRN-2095388
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs H took out in 
2015 with Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G). The complaint against L&G is 
largely about the interest rate and the early repayment charge (ERC) in the mortgage 
contract. Mr and Mrs H are represented in this complaint by their son, whom Ill refer to 
Mr H1. Mr H1 thinks the interest rate is too high, and the ERC a penalty.
What happened
This is one of a pair of linked complaints, as Mr and Mrs H have, at the same time, 
complained that the broker firm that arranged the mortgage mis-sold it. The two complaints 
are discrete from each other, and my decision here deals solely with the actions of L&G. My 
decision on the complaint against the broker firm (which Ill refer to here as K) will be a 
separate document. 
That said, the two complaints do arise from a common set of circumstances; indeed, the final 
submissions from Mr H appear to make largely the same arguments in both cases. So its 
inevitable that there will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  If there are any 
occasions in this decision against L&G where I have referred to K, its because context 
required me to.
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr and Mrs H took the mortgage out with L&G in 2015. The terms of the mortgage provide 
that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be 
repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can 
be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early 
repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr H1 brought the complaint on his parents behalf after they decided to sell and downsize, 
and then realised that reducing the mortgage, or repaying it altogether, would result in L&G 
applying an ERC. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr H1 asked 
for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Im grateful for the invitation from Mr H1 to have an employee of an investment house he 
knows tell me why the complaint must be upheld. But Im satisfied I have all I need to decide 
the complaint fairly.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs H are 
consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr H1 is 
bringing the complaint on his parents behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr H1 represents his parents, it is they who are L&Gs 
customers. Its Mr H1s role is to bring the complaint on their behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr H1 to air his own grievances about L&G, because he is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting forward his parents complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr H1 says the interest rate on the mortgage is excessive. Having no regulatory function 
means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only 
comment in general terms.
The rate L is charging on Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage is 5.13%, fixed for the duration of the 
mortgage. The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity 
release mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time 
as the interest rolls up. 
Thats important to a lender when deciding how much to lend, not just from a risk 
assessment point of view but also its own cost of funding. But it also gives a degree of clarity 
to the borrower about how their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be 
incorporated into the mortgage offer, as it was in this case. 
Mr H1 thinks L&G should compensate Mr and Mrs H for the difference between the 
contractual rate they agreed to it and what he considers a fair rate for the lending risk 
involved. Hes told us that L is offering a lower rate now but the point is, thats now. Its not 
relevant to what was available in 2015. Also, Mr H1s use of typical rates available on a regular mortgage isnt relevant as a 
comparator. When a lender provides a regular mortgage, it does so with some knowledge 
and expectation of when the debt will be repaid. When a lender provides an equity release 
mortgage, it has an expectation that the mortgage will be repaid, but no expectation of when. 
So the pricing model is very different.
In any event, my role doesnt extend to adopting Mr Hs judgement on what a fair rate should 
be and substituting it in favour of L&Gs commercial judgement as the business that actually 
lent the money to Mr and Mrs H.
I now turn to the ERC, starting with Mr H1s description of it as a penalty. In law, penalty has 
a specific meaning; its a financial sanction arising from a breach of contract. An ERC cant 
be a penalty because it isnt due on breach of contract. Rather, it arises from a provision in 
the contract, and is due if borrowers decide to avail themselves of the option to repay their 
mortgage early.
Generally speaking, there are two types of ERC; a fixed charge calculated as a percentage 
of the amount repaid or a floating charge calculated by reference to an investment index, 
typically a gilt yield index. Whereas the former guarantees an ERC will payable in any 
circumstances, L&Gs use of the latter means the possibility exists for no ERC to be payable 
depending on movements in the index.
In simple terms, if the index yield  expressed as a percentage  remained the same as or 
fell below a benchmark rate, an ERC would be payable whereas if the yield went above the 
benchmark, an ERC wouldnt be payable. Unfortunately, in Mr and Mrs Hs case, the yield 
has fallen, and so presently L&G will charge them an ERC if they repay the lifetime 
mortgage or reduce it substantially as part of a downsizing move where the residual debt is 
transferred to their new home.
The mortgage offer also showed illustrative examples of the ERC that might be chargeable, 
depending on how the index moved, along with a detailed explanation of the mechanics of 
the index. Mr H1 may feel the documents were too complex to ensure a proper 
understanding of the mortgage. I cant know how much of the information Mr and Mrs H 
assimilated. But the documents presented the information in a format that was consistent 
with the requirements set by the FCA which regulates the sale of mortgages.
I make this latter observation chiefly because Mr H1 has expressly said this way of 
calculating an ERC is too complicated and shouldnt be permitted. For me to express a view 
on that would be for me to take the place of the FCA. Its for the FCA rather than me to 
consider if a gilt yield index is an appropriate mechanism for lenders to use when calculating 
ERCs.
I can well understand Mr H1s sense of grievance on his parents behalf; hes the reason 
they took the mortgage out. But it would be wholly inappropriate for me to simply redraw the 
terms and conditions of the contract between his parents and L&G to suit him, which is 
effectively what hes asking me to do. 
I can only find in Mr and Mrs Hs favour if Im persuaded L&G has treated them unfairly, or is 
proposing to, by charging interest and/or calculating any future ERC that might apply in a 
manner that the contract doesnt allow it to. Theres nothing in the evidence Mr H1 has 
provided on their behalf to suggest that has happened or is likely to happen. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman