DRN-3776941
The complaint
A company which Ill call S complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited has asked them to 
provide identification documents in an unsecure way. 
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by one of their directors, Mr D. 
What happened
S had an agreement with WorldPay for it to provide payment services to the company.
Mr D told us:
In August 2022, WorldPay wrote to S and asked them to provide personal 
information and identification documents for each of the directors, or it would restrict 
their account and then close it.
Ss directors were happy to provide the information but didnt want to do this through 
email as WorldPay had requested as they didnt feel this was secure.
He had requested an alternative secure method of sending the information, however 
WorldPay said it didnt have this, and that the method provided was in line with the 
relevant regulatory requirements. 
WorldPay told us:
It had asked S for the information and identification documents as it needed to 
complete due diligence for its customers to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
It had told S that if it didnt provide the required documents, it would restrict access 
and then close their account which was in line with its terms and conditions. 
Customer information was requested and stored in line with regulatory requirements, 
and it didnt have an alternative method for S to provide the information, other than 
email or post.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that both parties had 
agreed WorldPays information request was reasonable, so her view focussed on whether 
the rest of its actions were fair. The investigator thought it was reasonable for WorldPay to 
request the information by email or post as this was its only process and noted that S could 
password protect an email if they chose to send the information in this manner. She also 
said that this service couldnt tell a business to change its processes.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed called WorldPay who said there was nothing else they could 
do, and that he hadnt been told he could send the documents using a password, but this 
was still an unsecured method. So he asked for an ombudsman to review Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Theres not much that I can add to what our 
investigator has already said. 
WorldPay has legal and regulatory obligations to ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of 
its customers. As the payment service provider wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory 
obligations, it gave S warnings that it would restrict and then close their account which was 
in line with its terms and conditions. I think its reasonable that WorldPay wanted to clarify 
the information it held for S was correct and for it to explain what the consequences would 
be if this wasnt provided.
I acknowledge that S has concerns about sending the requested information to WorldPay via 
email due to security concerns, and that they feel its unreasonable that it doesnt offer a 
secure portal to provide this information. However, WorldPay has said that it is satisfied that 
its process complies with the regulatory obligations, and it has discretion on how it decides 
to do so. I would only interfere with WorldPays interpretation of its obligations if I thought it 
had behaved unfairly or unreasonably, and I dont think it has done so here. I say this 
because WorldPay has told S that documents can be provided by post or a password 
protected email, which they can then provide the password for over the phone if they are 
unhappy to provide this using the direct email. So I think WorldPay has provided S with 
reasonable alternatives to provide the outstanding information.
I recognise my decision will be disappointing for S as they feel WorldPays process is 
unsecure, but this isnt something Ill be asking it to take any further action on. If S wishes to 
do so, they can raise their concerns about Ss process with the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). However, I would like to make S aware that the FCA do not 
respond to individual complaints.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman