DRN-4124039
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when he lost money to a scam.
Mr M is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr M in the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Around May 2022 Mr M was contacted by a merchant after seeing a social media post that 
said a well-known online company were now offering cryptocurrency investments. He initially 
made a payment of £200 and this appeared to perform very well  making £350 very quickly. 
Mr M was then persuaded to continue investing by the merchant. He downloaded software 
to his computer at the merchants instructions and thought he was going to be making 
payments of £150 and £200. But Mr M saw that the merchant had made payments of 
£15,000 on 16 June 2022 and then £20,000 the following day. These payments were sent to 
a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. Mr M asked what had happened and was happy with 
the scammers explanation - that he would make the money back based upon how well his 
first £200 investment had performed.
Mr M then became suspicious of the merchant after they asked him to make further 
payments and, after he refused, he lost contact with them. So, he contacted HSBC to raise a 
claim. HSBC considered the claim but decided not to refund the £35,000 Mr M had lost. It 
said the payments werent unusual or suspicious in relation to his normal account activity. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and said the complaint should be upheld in full. She 
said the payments were sufficiently unusual for HSBC to have stopped them and asked 
further questions of Mr M. And if it had done so the scam, more likely than not, wouldve 
been uncovered. 
Mr M agreed with the investigators opinion. But HSBC disagreed. It said that the payments 
werent unusual compared to Mr Ms usual account activity. And that if an award should be 
made then a 50% deduction to any refund should be applied because Mr M failed to act 
reasonably when going ahead with the payments. HSBC added that if Mr M had conducted 
some basic due diligence, he wouldve encountered the negative reviews about the 
scammer online. HSBC said Mr M had downloaded software on to his computer and that he 
shouldve been aware of the dangers with unregulated investing due to his role at an 
investment bank. 
I considered the complaint and felt that HSBC couldve done more to stop the second 
payment Mr M made towards the scam. But that Mr M didnt act reasonably when he failed 
to carry out due diligence on the scammer. And if he had, I felt that this wouldve led to him 
coming across negative reviews about the scammer online which wouldve more likely than 
not caused him to not continue with the scam. So, I said I was minded to ask HSBC to 
refund the second transaction of £20,000 with a 25% deduction. This meant HSBC refunding 
£15,000 to Mr M with 8% simple interest per year from the date of the transaction to the date 
of settlement. 
HSBC said that it was willing to make Mr M an offer of £15,000 as a gesture of goodwill. But 
Mr M disagreed. He said the first £15,000 was unusual because it was to a high-risk genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange and should also be refunded. Mr M agreed that a reduction of 25% 
on any refund was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Im sorry to hear that Mr M has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he feels strongly about this complaint and this will 
come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr M authorised the scam payments of around £35,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr M was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
HSBCs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr M provides. But if those 
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect HSBC to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect HSBC to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for HSBC to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of fraud or a scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr M to HSBC were unusual 
in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements for the 
twelve months prior to the scam payments, which I consider gives a good sample size to 
assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was typically well managed 
and maintained a credit balance. And I note Mr M had made payments previously ranging 
from £10,000 in March 2022 to £31,000 in April 2022. 
Ive now reviewed the two payments that were made by Mr M towards this scam. Having 
done so, I agree that more couldve been done by HSBC here. But I dont agree with the 
investigator that the first payment shouldve been stopped. I believe that the second larger 
payment (£20,000) the next day shouldve seemed suspicious to HSBC. The reason I think the second payment shouldve been stopped is because it was sent to a 
relatively new payee. And Mr M had only sent small payments to that payee before. The 
second payment was within a short period of time after the first £15,000 payment. By the 
time it was sent, £35,000 had left Mr Ms account within 24 hours. Ive also considered that 
the payment was funded by a large inbound payment before almost the entire balance was 
transferred out of the account. 
And if that second payment had been stopped then Im satisfied that its likely the scam 
wouldve been uncovered by a trained call handler asking some probing questions of Mr M 
about why he was sending this money to the genuine cryptocurrency exchange. Thats 
because this had all the traditional signs that a trained employee of HSBC wouldve been 
able to notice for e.g. money being sent through a genuine cryptocurrency exchange before 
being forwarded to a merchant to a separate and external trade account to trade on Mr Ms 
behalf. 
So, I think there was enough happening on the account for HSBC to have been suspicious 
and for that £20,000 to be considered unusual. And if the payment had been stopped its 
more likely than not the scam wouldve been uncovered like the later payment that HSBC 
stopped. 
I appreciate Mr M has said the first payment to the scammer was sent to a high-risk 
cryptocurrency exchange which shouldve raised a concern for HSBC. But that alone isnt 
sufficient for me to consider that payment to be unusual  account usage can change over 
time. And the first payment wasnt so unusual compared to the payments hed made 
previously. 
Did Mr M act reasonably? 
HSBC thinks that Mr M should bear some responsibility for failing to do his own due 
diligence and because of his job, at an investment bank, he shouldve known about the 
dangers of unregulated investments. 
Ive considered this carefully. I think it would be fair for a deduction to be made to the 
£20,000 payment. But I dont agree this should be 50%. I think a fairer amount would be 
25% here. 
I accept that if Mr M had conducted some research, he wouldve likely encountered the 
negative reviews online. And that he continued with the scam after the amounts had been 
changed by the scammers at the time the payments were made. But I can understand why 
he was taken in by the scam being advertised on social media and that it was being set up 
through a reputable company. I dont think Mr M shouldve been more aware of what was 
happening due to his job because I dont think HSBC can fairly assume in this instance that 
his role means he should be held to a higher standard than that of a reasonable person. 
Did HSBC act reasonably when it was made aware of the scam?
Ive considered whether HSBC acted reasonably when it was made aware of the scam. 
HSBC said to this service that it didnt contact the genuine cryptocurrency exchange 
because Mr M confirmed his funds were sent to a wallet in his name before being forwarded 
to the scammers. So, HSBC wouldnt have been able to recover any of his funds. So, I dont 
think it treated him unreasonably here. Putting things right
I believe HSBC shouldve done more here to stop the second transaction (£20,000) Mr M 
made to the scammer. And if it had Im satisfied the money wouldnt have been lost. 
But HSBC can deduct 25% from this amount because of Mr M not acting reasonably. 
Therefore, HSBC should refund Mr M £15,000. HSBC should also add 8% simple interest 
per year to this amount from the date of the second payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. HSCB UK Bank Plc should do the 
following;
Pay Mr M £15,000
Pay 8% simple interest per year to this amount from the date of the second payment 
to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman