DRN-3849192
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was unable to withdraw money from a  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) USD account and about poor customer service. She would like a refund of losses 
incurred, and compensation for expenses incurred and the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Barclays has explained that at the time Mrs L wanted to withdraw funds from a 
currency account in April 2022 this had to be ordered through a specific team. 
However, there is no dispute that it gave Mrs L the wrong number to call to arrange 
this. Barclays accepts it made a mistake and offered Mrs L £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as well as £50 to cover the financial loss of having to 
purchase currency from another provider at a less favorable rate. Given Barclays 
provided Mrs L with the wrong information I think its appropriate it  offered some 
compensation.
However, whilst I appreciate the frustration caused by Barclays not giving Mrs L the 
correct phone number this information was available to her elsewhere in its terms 
and conditions which I have seen explain both the process to do so and the phone 
number to contact. 
I dont accept Mrs Ls points that that as Barclays offered £50 to cover the cost of 
getting money  from a less favorable provider this means it accepts liability for all the 
losses Mrs L says she incurred. The table of losses Mrs L has given us covers 
payments made during two trips abroad between April to the end of July 2022. I dont 
think its reasonable to ask Barclays to cover all these losses. There was a short 
period of time between Mrs Ls branch visits and phone calls before her first trip 
when she could have potentially accessed her funds using the phone number in the 
terms and conditions. There was also over a month between her two trips when I 
think she would have had time to sort out access to her funds for her second trip 
abroad. 
However, I do appreciate the inconvenience for Mrs L in Barclays giving her wrong 
information. But I think the £150 compensation Barclays has offered to recognise this 
is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should , if it has not done so already, pay 
Mrs L £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman