DRN-1345458
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a store 
card.
A retailer sold the policy. The insurer, now called AXA France IARD, has accepted 
responsibility for the sale - so I'll be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs C had a store card, which started in 1998. In 2001, she was sold a PPI policy. The cost 
of the PPI was charged to the store card, so she'd repay the cost, with interest, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs C thinks the policy was mis-sold.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 October 2019. I explained that 
based on what I'd seen so far, I didn't think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
"I've first considered if Mrs C knew she had a choice to buy the policy.
Mrs C says she felt pressured - and was led to believe that the approval of her store 
card was dependent on the PPI being applied. She says it wasn't made clear that the 
PPI and the store card were separate products. And she says that she didn't feel it 
necessary to have the PPI, but was convinced that she should have it. She says she 
was quite young and not assertive enough to say no. I've thought about this alongside 
the other information I have alongside the sale.
The store card started in 1998. But Mrs C didn't apply for the PPI at this time - the 
word 'No' is written on the section of the application form that relates to PPI. Based on 
what I've seen, PPI wasn't added to the account until March 2001 - AXA says Mrs C 
took out the policy during a phone call.
Because of the time that's passed, AXA hasn't got a recording of the call. I don't think 
that's unreasonable. I wouldn't expect AXA to keep these records indefinitely.
Based on what I've seen, I think Mrs C knew that the PPI was a separate product to 
her card. She already had the card when she bought the PPI, so I don't think she'd 
have thought it was a condition of the card. And though Mrs C says she felt pressured 
into buying the policy, I think it's more likely that she chose to buy it during the call.
Based on what I've seen, I don't think AXA advised Mrs C to buy the policy. So it didn't 
have to make sure the policy was right for her. But it did have to give her the 
information she'd need so she could work out for herself if she wanted it.
It's possible that the information AXA gave Mrs C to buy the policy wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But as I've explained above, I think she chose to buy the policy, so 
she appears to have wanted this type of cover. It looks as though the policy would 
have been useful to Mrs C if anything went wrong.Our adjudicator thought Mrs C might not have wanted the PPI given the sick pay she 
said she'd get from her employer. But I note that in 2001, when the policy started, 
Mrs C had only been with her employer for six months - and given this length of 
service and based on what I know of sick pay in industry generally, I think it's unlikely 
that Mrs C would get full pay for six months if she'd been off work sick at that time.
I don't doubt that Mrs C's family would have wanted to help her repay her store card if 
she'd been off work sick, or lost her job. But I don't think this help was guaranteed to 
be available when she needed it.
And though Mrs C had some savings, this policy would have repaid 15% of the 
outstanding balance on the account each month until the card was repaid in full. So 
the PPI would have meant she could have used her savings for other expenses at 
what would have been a difficult time. The cover also appears to have been 
affordable.
For these reasons, I'm not persuaded that better information would have changed 
Mrs C's decision to buy the policy.
I've thought about everything else Mrs C has said, but this doesn't change my 
conclusions."
I said I'd consider anything further AXA or Mrs C sent me by 25 November 2019.
Mrs C doesn't agree with my provisional findings. She says she didn't request or understand 
she was being charged for PPI at the time, and she definitely would not have taken out the 
card if she had been made aware. She says she was led to believe that PPI was part of the 
package of the card, she had no choice, and that she did not choose to buy the policy but if 
was forced on her.
Mrs C says she would have got the sick pay she mentioned after six months service. She 
also had savings. She says her parents would help her if she couldn't work - as would her 
partner. Finally, after we asked her about this Mrs C has also confirmed that her salary at the 
time the policy was sold was £22,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've carefully considered the points Mrs C has raised following my provisional findings. But 
they don't change my conclusion.
First, I note that Mrs C feels strongly that the PPI was presented as part of a package with 
the card. But as I explained in my provisional findings, Mrs C rejected PPI when she applied 
for the card. The application form for the store card included a section headed "Payment & 
purchase protection". Mrs C needed to tick this section of the form if she wanted PPI.
Instead she, or someone at the retailer, has written "No". So Mrs C had the store card for a 
number of years without the PPI before AXA sold the policy over the phone in March 2001. It 
continued in force until the account closed in November 2002.
I don't doubt that what Mrs C has said is her honest recollection of what happened. But I'm 
mindful that all this happened a very long time ago. It don't think it likely that Mrs C would have thought the policy was compulsory or a condition of the lending, given she'd already 
had the card for over two years at the time she applied for it.
I've taken into account what Mrs C has said about her circumstances at the time. But given 
the amount of savings she had compared to what she earned at the time I'm not persuaded 
that better information about the policy would have put her off buying this policy. I think the 
PPI would have paid out alongside any sick pay she got from her employer, and that it would 
have meant she could have used her savings for other expenses. While I acknowledge what 
Mrs C says about her family helping her, the policy meant she wouldn't have needed to ask 
her parents and partner for help.
For these reasons, the points Mrs C has raised don't change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman