DRN-1478762
 
The complaint
Miss A says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Miss A has told us that at the time of the lending she was already 
struggling financially. She says that Satsuma encouraged her to borrow more than she could 
afford. Satsuma should have known about her financial position but failed to check her 
outgoings. Miss A has suffered because of the borrowing. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Satsuma provided to Miss A between December 
2014 and July 2018. There are three chains of borrowing  loans one and two, loan three, 
and then loans four to six. Miss As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 24/12/2014 23/03/2015 13 Weekly £100.00
2 07/04/2015 13/07/2015 13 Weekly £100.00
Break
3 16/08/2016 13/02/2017 39 Weekly £200.00
Break
4 22/12/2017 15/07/2018   6 Monthly £250.00
5 26/02/2018 outstanding 12 Monthly £850.00
6 22/07/2018 outstanding 12 Monthly £800.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss As complaint and thought loan six shouldnt have been 
given. Satsuma agreed and offered to pay redress for loan six but because there is an 
outstanding balance on loans five and six, nothing would be repayable to Miss A.
Miss A disagreed with the offer and didnt think it was enough. She thought that none of the 
lending should have been given.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and didnt think that any of the lending 
should have been given. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided in this context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. And after 
doing so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
First, I should say that I am satisfied there were three chains of lending. Loan three was 
taken out 13 months after loan two was repaid. And loan four was taken out ten months after 
loan three was repaid. Because of this, I dont think its unreasonable for Satsuma to have 
assumed that Miss A had overcome whatever financial circumstances had caused her to 
take high-cost credit in the first and second instance. A break in a chain of lending in effect, 
starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a 
business should carry out when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship 
with a consumer. Satsuma has shown this service the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. And it has told us that when taking into account a consumers declared 
expenditure, it will add a safeguard amount as a reflection of the credit bureaus information 
it has gathered and its own internal models.
Loans one and two
For loan one Miss A told Satsuma she earned £1,039 per month with an expenditure of 
£300. And for loan two her income was declared as £1,108 and outgoings of £200. The two 
loans were for a relatively modest sum and to be repaid over three months, so the lending 
looks affordable on a pounds and pence basis. I dont think it was unfair of Satsuma to have 
given these loans to Miss A. 
Loan three
Loan three is a single loan in a chain. Miss A told Satsuma she earned £1,500 with £300 of 
outgoings, the repayments were to be made over ten months so again this looks affordable 
for Miss A. I dont think Satsumas decision to lend was unreasonable. 
Loans four and five
After a gap of ten months Miss A returned for more borrowing at loan four. For loans four to 
six Miss As income is recorded at £1,500 and outgoings of £300. Again, and despite loans 
five and six being for much larger sums than previously borrowed, on the face of it the 
repayments look affordable. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.  And I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Miss A provided to Satsuma, or that it had gathered, which would have 
caused it to be concerned that she was having problems managing her finances.
So, in conclusion, I dont think that Satsuma was unreasonable when agreeing to loans one 
to five. I do accept its possible that Miss As financial circumstances werent correctly 
reflected in either the information she provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. 
And if her circumstances were different, Miss As actual financial position may well have 
been more apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit 
checks  had been obtained.
But Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where Satsuma should have concluded there was a greater risk of the 
loans being unsustainable for Miss A. In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed 
to take further steps to verify the information provided  such as asking Miss A for evidence 
of her income and outgoings which Satsuma could have gathered from her bank statements 
or copies of any bills, as examples.
I have considered the information Satsuma was provided with before it lent to Miss A. And 
there isnt anything in this information that may have led Satsuma to conclude that it should 
decline Miss As application for loans one to five. And there isnt anything to have prompted 
it to ask for more information from Miss A. So, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have 
provided loans one to five, based solely on the information it had.
Loan sixBut I do think that Miss As borrowing behaviour when she applied for loan six should have 
caused Satsuma to reconsider whether it should carry on lending to Miss A. When Miss A 
applied for loan six, loan five  the largest loan Miss A had taken  was still outstanding and 
still had seven months to run so the monthly repayments would correspondingly increase 
when loan six was given. Also, I note that a couple of repayments on loan five had been 
made late. 
At this point I think Satsuma should have done more to build a better picture of Miss As 
financial circumstances, and if it had done so, I think it would have seen that Miss A was 
using other short-term credit providers as well as Satsuma. I think at this point Satsuma 
should have realised that Miss A was having problems managing her money, and that it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable to refuse any further borrowing.  
I do think Satsuma should have looked further into Miss As financial circumstances when 
she applied for loan six. And those checks would have shown that it shouldnt have lent to 
Miss A. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan six only. I know Miss A 
will be disappointed in the outcome, but I hope my comments have explained how Ive 
reached the conclusion that I have. 
I know Satsuma has already made an offer for loan six in line with our adjudicators 
assessment. So, I think Satsuma has done enough and I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss As complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman