DRN-3871161
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited following 
an engineer visit to his home. Hes also unhappy with the way in which his claim for damage 
resulting from repairs that were undertaken by the engineer has been dealt with. 
What happened
Mr M holds a HomeCare policy with British Gas. This policy covers him for issues relating to 
his boiler, its controls, the central heating and includes an annual service of the boiler.
Mr M said he contacted British Gas to ask it to replace two thermostatic valves on two 
separate radiators within the upstairs bedrooms in his home because they were showing 
slight seepage of radiator fluid. Mr M also stated that three thermostatic valves had been 
replaced previously due to similar faults but that, at no point, had liquid escaped any further 
than onto the immediate surface of the flooring. 
On 6 May 2021 an engineer attended Mr Ms home to undertake the work hed requested. 
Mr M stated that, at this point, there was no damage to any of the ground floor rooms. During 
the engineer visit, Mr M stated they drained the system, replaced the thermostatic valves 
and refilled the system. But they thought that one of the connections to the radiator in the 
bedroom wasnt secure and was leaking. So, they drained the system, replaced the 
connector and left Mr Ms property.
British Gas said that the engineer reported that the repairs had been undertaken 
successfully and that no further visits were required. However, Mr M said that, following the 
engineers visit, water and rust preventative treatment cascaded into the living room due to a 
leak from the radiator within the bedroom upstairs. 
Mr M attributed what happened to an error on the part of the engineer and said it caused 
significant staining to the ceiling, walls, light, skirting board and window seat in his living 
room. He said he subsequently discovered that the drain valve on the system had been left 
slightly open, which caused extensive damage to mats and the tiling grout within the utility 
room.
On 7 May 2021, Mr M said he telephoned British Gas to explain what had happened. He 
said an engineer visit was arranged for the following day. However, Mr M said that no one 
attended his home on 8 May 2021.
Mr M said that the earliest follow up appointment he was offered was on 7 June 2021. He 
said that while waiting for the engineer to attend, he had to initially catch leaking fluid with 
trays and towels. He subsequently was able to tighten the valve, which he said stopped the 
leak.
Unhappy with the service Mr M had received, he complained to British Gas. When it 
responded to his complaint it disputed that its engineer had caused the damage reported. It 
stated that the damage was pre-existing, having occurred prior to the engineers arrival. It 
therefore didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint or think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr M 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator empathised with Mr M about what had happened and recommended 
upholding his complaint. They didnt think there was enough evidence to show that British 
Gas engineer hadnt caused the further leak. And they thought it should either arrange for 
the damage to be repaired or for Mr Ms repair costs to be reimbursed on receipt of an 
invoice. They also thought British Gas should pay Mr M £100 compensation in recognition of 
the poor service it had provided.
Mr M accepted our investigators view of his complaint but indicated that hed prefer to pay 
for the reinstatement work and claim the costs back from British Gas. However, British Gas 
requested an ombudsmans decision. So, Ive been asked to decide the fairest way to 
resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Id like to thank Mr M and British Gas for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and if I havent 
specifically referred to a complaint point raised by Mr M or British Gas its not because Ive 
failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. 
British Gas has told our service that Mr M requested a visit from an engineer via his online 
account. It said he accessed his online account on 16 April 2021 and booked an 
appointment for 6 May 2021. Theres nothing within Mr Ms request to indicate that an urgent 
visit was required. And theres no evidence that Mr M complained to British Gas that it 
should have offered him an earlier visit. So, I cant fairly conclude that British Gas erred in 
not offering Mr M an earlier engineer appointment.
During the engineer visit, British Gas said, the leaking radiator valves were inspected and 
the required repairs were undertaken. Ive seen a job sheet recording the work completed by 
the engineer that attended Mr Ms property on 6 May 2021. This documents the following:
Two TRVS leaking, drained down system and removed the faulty valuesfill system check 
for leaks. One valve leaking unable to stop leak. System redrained and valve removed and 
pipework cut new section fitted and valve replaced. System refilled and inhibiter added. 
System bled.
The engineer hasnt indicated that the leaking valves were leaking significant amounts of 
fluid on their arrival or that the flooring surrounding the affected radiators was profusely wet. 
Based on the description of work recorded by the engineer, Im satisfied that a leak occurred 
from the replacement valve while the engineer was present. Its clear that this radiator was 
immediately drained down and the defective part replaced. This all happened, and was resolved, quickly. So, Im not persuaded that the leak on site caused the damage Mr M 
subsequently reported.
British Gas stated that Mr M disclosed to the engineer that damage had been caused 
downstairs because of the leak that occurred during their visit. It said the engineer asked Mr 
M if they could access the rooms affected so they could take photographic evidence. 
However, British Gas said Mr M refused so the engineer was unable to see the downstairs 
rooms. Mr M denies this happened.
The work history records that British Gas provided to our service dont record any refusal of 
Mr M to show the engineer downstairs. And British Gas hasnt disclosed any 
contemporaneous evidence that documents a refusal by Mr M either. 
Ive seen a statement made by the engineer that attended Mr Ms property detailing his 
account of what happened on 6 May 2021. But this statement wasnt made until the end of 
last year  over 18 months after the visit took place. And British Gas hasnt said the 
statement was made using notes as an aid memoire. I think it would be very difficult for the 
engineer to remember the visit to Mr Ms home so long after it took place. So, Im not 
attaching weight to this document.
I think its likely that if Mr M had told an engineer theyd caused damage during their visit and 
the engineer had been refused access to inspect the damage then this would have been 
recorded contemporaneously within British Gas records. I also think that, if damage had 
been caused by the engineer during their visit, Mr M would have wanted them to make a 
record so action could have been taken by British Gas to reinstate his property. Im not 
persuaded that Mr M would have refused a request from the engineer that they view 
downstairs in such circumstances. So, I prefer Mr Ms account here to the engineers version 
of events.
Based on Mr Ms version of events, he said he didnt observe any damage until after the 
engineer left his property. He says he then contacted British Gas to report what had 
happened. I think this is credible  its what a reasonable person would do after discovering 
damage to their home following an engineer visit.
Its clear from what Mr M has told our service that he felt ignored and aggrieved by British 
Gas actions after he reported the damage. He told our service that, after the engineers visit 
on 6 May 2021, he contacted it the following day to report the damage and request that 
remedial action was taken. 
British Gas disputes this and said it had no further contact from Mr M until 12 May 2021. And 
its provided our service with an extract from business records that shows that, on this date, 
Mr M used his online account to request a further engineer visit. Theres no evidence of any 
earlier contact from Mr M. And I can see that British Gas has checked its phone records 
system for any incoming calls from Mr Ms phone number.
Mr M hasnt been able to provide our service with any evidence, such as a telephone bill, 
showing that he contacted British Gas when he said he did after the engineer visit. And in 
the absence of this the business records Ive seen persuade me, its more likely than not, 
that the first contact British Gas had from Mr M was on 12 May via his online account. It 
follows that I cant fairly conclude that British Gas ought to have attended Mr Ms home prior 
to this date.
British Gas should have attended Mr Ms property after his request on 12 May. But I havent 
seen any evidence confirming that it attended his address to inspect the damage reported, provide an opinion on why it had been caused or repair it. I think there should have been a 
visit and it isnt clear why that didnt happen here. I think this is evidence of poor service.
Its clear that British Gas disputes that the damage Mr M reported was caused by the work 
undertaken by its engineer. And its provided photographs of the upstairs rooms within which 
work was undertaken, which Ive considered. No photographs of the downstairs rooms have 
been taken by British Gas during previous visits to Mr Ms home.
British Gas has said the photographs taken by its engineer indicate theres pre-existing 
water damage present within the upstairs bedrooms. It said this has been caused by the 
radiator valves leaking for some time. Its also disclosed business documents which 
evidence that Mr M experienced problems with his radiators leaking previously. It said an 
engineer attended his home on 28 February 2020 and recorded that theyd observed water 
damage to the wooden flooring. This is documented on the business records Ive seen. 
Theres nothing documenting damage to the downstairs of Mr Ms property during that, or 
any other, visit.
The photographs that were taken by British Gas engineer persuade me that there was pre-
existing damage within the upstairs bedrooms at the time of the engineers visit. Theres 
water staining to the flooring, which appears old. Im satisfied this was present prior to the 
engineers visit as is supported by the business records.
However, the damage depicted isnt extensive. It appears to be relatively superficial in 
keeping with a small and gradual leak from a seeping radiator valve as Mr M described. He 
accepts that three thermostatic valves had been replaced previously and that the water 
leaking from the valve hadnt escaped any further than the immediate surface of the flooring, 
which is consistent with the photographs British Gas has provided. While theres pre-existing 
damage to the flooring, this doesnt mean the damage to the downstairs that Mr M reported 
was also present prior to 6 May 2021 or that it was caused by the pre-existing valve leak.
Ive carefully considered the images that Mr M has provided showing damage to the 
downstairs of his home. He said the photographs show the utility room and living room, 
which is underneath the bedroom where the radiator work was undertaken. 
The images from Mr M demonstrate a sudden and substantial escape of water. I say this 
because it appears that water has cascaded, rather than slowly leaked, down the wall from 
the upstairs bedroom. The staining is consistent with what could be expected following a 
sudden large leak of fluid from a radiator within a room above. As the affected room is 
directly below the room in which the radiator work was undertaken, I think its most likely that 
this happened following the work completed by the engineer and that a part failed following 
the repair process causing a sudden and substantial leak of radiator fluid. 
The photographs of the utility room also show damage, which is consistent with what would 
likely happen if the drain valve on the system had been left slightly open. Its plausible that 
the engineer failed to properly tighten the drain plug. So, Im persuaded the damage within 
the utility room followed the engineers visit and resulted from the work undertaken.
Mr M has confirmed that the actions he took following the leak stopped it and prevented 
further damage from happening. He said he did this on 8 May 2021 after the engineer visit 
that he thought had been arranged didnt take place. Theres no evidence to suggest that the 
leak has returned since Mr Ms actions. This supports the argument that an escape of water 
was, most likely, caused by a leaking radiator valve or connector. Based on the available evidence in this complaint, Im satisfied that the work undertaken by 
British Gas on 6 May 2021 was the most probable cause of the damage Mr M reported. Im 
therefore going to direct British Gas to resolve this complaint in the following way.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, British Gas should repair the damage caused by its 
engineer to the living room and utility room. While Mr M asked our service to direct that 
British Gas reimburse him for the cost of remedial work, he hasnt yet incurred any costs so 
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to give British Gas the opportunity of arranging the 
necessary repairs in this case.
I can see our investigator recommended that British Gas pay compensation to Mr M of £100
for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of poor service. So, Ive carefully 
considered how Mr M is likely to have been affected by what happened.
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mr M. He instructed British Gas to replace 
thermostatic valves to stop a slow leak. But the work undertaken by its engineer resulted in a 
further leak which led to substantial damage. I imagine that Mr M thought British Gas would 
resolve what happened quickly and with minimal fuss. But that didnt happen and Mr M 
experienced poor service.
Taking into account how Mr M was affected, Im persuaded that the compensation 
recommended by our investigator is a reasonable amount thats proportionate to the distress 
and inconvenience that would have been caused here. Its in line with our approach in 
similar scenarios and its what I would have told British Gas to pay had an award not been 
recommended by our investigator. So, Im not going to ask British Gas to increase that 
amount.
                                          
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited to resolve 
matters in the following way:
Arrange, and pay for, repairs of the damage caused by its engineer in Mr Ms utility 
room and living room;
Pay £100 compensation for the poor service Mr M received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman