DRN-3639728
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited as it initially 
delayed settling his claim for the theft of his car. Then a short while after having settled it, 
and following the cars recovery, it rejected the claim, asking him for all of its outlay to be 
paid back.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr S reported his car was stolen. Admiral had some concerns about the 
claim and began making various enquiries. Amongst which it asked Mr S for his key to the 
car which he said was in his possession at the time the car was taken. Mr S provided the 
key, which he said was the only one he had been provided with when the car was 
purchased. Admiral had a key expert check the key.
In late February 2021 Admiral decided to settle the claim and in March paid Mr S around 
£14,000 as the market value of his car. In early April 2021 the car was recovered. Admiral 
had a locksmith open the car as it was locked. And then an engineer assessed it. The 
engineer said that the key Admiral had been sent couldnt be used remotely to open or lock 
the car and placing the key manually in the locks didnt operate them. The engineer said 
there was no evidence to suggest that the locks had been changed recently and the car 
couldnt be taken without a key. Admiral reviewed the report and determined Mr S must have 
given misleading information when he said he had the only key that operated the car in his 
possession at the time of the theft. It said he had breached the fraud condition on the policy 
and that it was cancelling any policies he had with it as a result. Admiral said Mr S must pay 
it back its claim outlay of over £14,000 (which included the settlement it had paid to him). 
Mr S was adamant he had given Admiral the key he had been using for the car until the point 
of the theft. He said the locks must have been changed. When Admiral wouldnt change its 
position Mr S complained to us, about the claim decision and the delay which had occurred 
before the initial settlement. 
Our investigator felt that Admiral hadnt caused a delay. She also felt it had completed 
adequate enquiries which had resulted in it fairly and reasonably acting to decline the 
previously settled claim on grounds of fraud.
Mr S said he felt he was being treated like a liar when the car had been stolen from outside 
his partners address. He said the police said there was no way to know if the locks had 
been changed and he couldnt know what had happened to the car in the time it was 
missing. He felt the outcome was unfair and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I reviewed the complaint. I noted Admiral had alleged fraud, which is a serious allegation. As 
such, where an insurer alleges fraud this service expects it to present a strong level of proof 
to support that. I had some concerns about some of the proof Admiral had sought to rely on 
and wasnt persuaded it had done enough to support its allegation of fraud. 
I put my concerns to Admiral and asked if it had any further comment to make or evidence to 
bring. Admiral said it would like to get an original key from the manufacturer to see if that 
works in the locks and ignition  this would show one way or the other if the cars locks had 
been changed since it had been stolen (which might be a reasonable explanation why Mr Ss 
key doesnt work). It told us it had obtained a key and was asking its engineer to reassess 
the car. It also asked its key specialist for further comment. Once Admiral obtained the 
further evidence and provided it to us, the complaint was passed back to me to complete a 
further review.
I wasnt persuaded Admiral had shown that it had fairly and reasonably accused Mr S of 
fraud. So I issued a provisional decision to sharing my views on the complaint with both 
parties. My provisional findings were: 
My concerns with Admirals evidence, as referenced above, are:
The key specialists report says the manufacturer can check the key code against the 
cars vehicle identification number  but Admiral hasnt done that.
The key specialist has indicated that the car could be stolen by someone with the right 
equipment and time to reprogramme it.
The key specialist says the key is showing signs of recent and regular wear consistent 
with the mileage of the vehicle.
In contrast the engineers report notes the wear on the key is not consistent with the 
mileage. But he is not a key expert.
It also seems that the engineer did not have access to the key himself and that all 
comments about the key in his report have been made by the storage company. I say 
that as there was only one key in question, the engineer says [the storage company] 
have a key and he did not meet anyone on site.
That aside  the engineers report notes the key blade doesnt open the locks  he
doesnt seem to have given any regard to the possibility, as suggested by the key 
specialist, that the car may have been re-programmed.
Whilst Admiral has noted that Mr S said there was no glass on the floor where he had 
reportedly left the car, Admiral seems to have given no regard to the possibility, as 
suggested by the key specialist, that the car may have been accessed by other means. 
Nor does Admiral seem to have considered any possibility of the car having been 
accessed via the soft roof.
I see that Admirals engineer has now tested Mr Ss key himself. But Im not persuaded that 
Admiral has sufficiently answered any of the other concerns Ive raised.  
Admiral has shown that the key Mr S presented does not work in this car. But its key 
specialist felt the keys wear was consistent with it being used for a car which had done the 
mileage of Mr Ss. Admirals engineers view was different  but I think most weight 
reasonably has to be given to the key specialist in this instance. The engineer reported that 
someone in a local manufacturing garage said the key wasnt what theyd expect to see for 
this car  it was missing a logo. But the key specialist said that after-market keys sometimes 
dont feature a logo. The engineer has shown that the key was made a few months after the 
car was registered. So it clearly wasnt an original key for the car  but that doesnt mean 
that a replacement key, at some point, wasnt provided and then used by Mr S. 
The key clearly doesnt work in the car currently. But the car was missing for three months. 
Whilst the engineer did initially say there was no sign the locks had been changed recently  
he didnt support that assertion with any explanatory detail. And I note that in his most recent 
report he says this cant be determined by a visual inspection  the only way to know 
whether the locks have been changed is to get a key made by the manufacturer. I think that 
would have been a simple way for Admiral to clearly show, had it wanted to, whether the 
cars locks and ignition had been changed in that time. Indeed Admiral even told this service it was looking to do exactly that before sending the engineer back out  and that an original 
key had been provided. But then its engineer only tested the key Mr S had given Admiral 
whilst again saying that he didnt have an original key from the manufacturer. So Admiral 
hasnt shown that the cars locks and ignition were the same as when Mr S had possession 
of the car  such that hes most likely been untruthful with it about using the key hed said 
was his to operate the car.
Regarding the method of theft Admirals key specialist indicated that the car could be started 
by a thief, carrying the right equipment and having sufficient time to recode a key for the car. 
Admiral though when asked about this possibility said Mr S only reported leaving the car for 
around 15 minutes which is very quick for the thieves to be able to recode a key and 
complete a full lock change. But no-one has suggested that the cars locks were changed or 
would need to be changed for the car to initially be stolen. The door lock might have been 
picked and Admiral hasnt commented on the suggestion that access to the cars interior 
could also have been gained via its soft roof. Regarding re-coding of a key, I note Admirals 
comment does not come from a key specialist or engineer. And Im generally aware that cars 
can be recoded to a new key, with the right equipment, within about 10 minutes. Therefore, 
Im not persuaded that Admiral has reasonably shown the car was most likely stolen by a 
thief who had a key, either as a result of Mr S having left the car unlocked with the key 
inside, or any other means. So I dont think its shown that Mr S has misled it about the 
circumstances leading up to the theft. 
Given my concerns stated over the evidence provided, and my findings set out here, Im not 
persuaded that Admiral has shown its allegation of fraud was fairly and reasonably made. 
Admiral has told us it hasnt yet marked any industry databases in respect of the fraud. If my 
final decision remains the same and Mr S accepts it, it now wont be able to do that. And it 
will have to remove any record of fraud from any of its own databases (including those within 
its extended group of companies).
Admirals final response letter refers to Mr Ss policy remaining cancelled  and that, due to 
what it saw as a fraud, it would cancel any other policy he held with it/its group of 
companies. From Admirals file it seems as though Mr Ss policy for this car was cancelled in 
line with the policy terms following Admirals total loss settlement. That was before the car 
was recovered and fraud alleged. So that policy wasnt cancelled on the grounds of fraud. 
And Im not sure if Mr S did have any other policies with Admiral which it cancelled. If he did 
then, if Mr S wants it to, it will have to reinstate them. If theyre reinstated the cancellation 
marker will have to be removed. If they arent reinstated the cancellation record will have to 
be changed to show the policy was cancelled by Mr S. If Mr S suffered any financial loss due 
to Admiral cancelling any other policies on the grounds of fraud, upon sight of proof from 
Mr S showing his loss, it will have to reimburse that, plus interest*.
Admiral had settled Mr Ss claim before the car was recovered. Its since said its declining it 
on grounds of fraud and, as such, it wants its claim outlay back. It hasnt put forwards any 
other grounds on which it feels it can reasonably reclaim its outlay. As Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded Admiral has shown that its allegation of fraud was fairly and reasonably made. It 
follows that Im going to direct it to cease chasing Mr S for its claim outlay. 
I know this claim took a while to progress to settlement being made. But I think Admirals 
enquiries were generally reasonable and it did move things on in a reasonably timely 
manner. I do think its enquiries which began after the car was recovered werent handled 
very well and delays did, I think, occur. But I dont think Mr S was materially affected by this 
 hed had payment for the loss and Admiral hadnt told him the nature of its investigations. 
That said, when it came to Admiral accusing Mr S of fraud, I understand that was particularly 
upsetting for him. As was Admirals demand for him to reimburse the substantial claim 
outlay. I think Admiral should pay Mr S £500 compensation.Mr S confirmed he had nothing to add. Admiral asked that I review my findings.
Admiral said:
The locksmith hadnt confirmed that the wear on the key matched Mr Ss car  only that 
it is consistent with being used as a main key.
The locksmith only saw one key, whereas the engineer saw the car as well, so his view 
on the condition of the key should be given greater weight.
It had called the manufacturer to ask if the key is coded for this car, but it had been told 
that the age of the car means this information isnt available.
Reprogramming the car wouldnt change the barrels of the cars locks and ignition, and 
the engineer has confirmed that these have not been changed. So the key Mr S 
provided, if he had been using it, should have worked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The locksmith  more correctly referred to by me previously as the key specialist  did not 
see the car. But the specialists opinion on the condition of the key was given in light of the 
age of the car and its last known mileage (from the MOT a couple of months before the 
loss). I dont think seeing the car itself would have added much to that assessment. And 
when the engineer did eventually assess both the car and the key together, his comment 
was that the condition of the key was not consistent with the cars mileage. So his 
assessment was actually based on the same information as was available to and considered 
by the key specialist. And I still think its relevant that the engineers is not a specialist in 
locks/keys. He is an expert engineer, so his view does carry some weight. But the key 
specialist has a focused expertise in keys. So it follows that when assessing the condition of 
a key, the key specialists view is given most weight.
I havent seen any evidence of a call like this taking place with the manufacturer. But Admiral 
did tell us that it had asked the manufacturer for an original key for this car  and that one 
had been supplied. Its engineer only ever said that there was no evidence the locks had 
been changed recently  that is not quite the same as confirming they had not been 
changed. And the engineers final position on whether or not the locks had been changed, 
given after Admiral had told us the engineer had been sent to inspect the car with an original 
key in hand, was actually that this could not be determined by a visual inspection  only by 
getting an original key.  
Admirals response has not changed my opinion on this complaint. I remain of the view that 
Admiral has not shown that its accusation of fraud against Mr S was fairly and reasonably 
made. So my provisional findings have not changed  and they, along with my comments 
above, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove the record of fraud from its own databases  it says it hasnt so far updated any 
industry databases with the fraud marker, it now wont be able to.If any other policies for Mr S have been cancelled, on the grounds of fraud  reinstate 
them, if Mr S wishes it to.
If any are reinstated, remove the record of the cancellation. If any arent reinstated, 
change the record of cancellation to show the policy was cancelled by Mr S. In either 
scenario that should be done on all of its databases.
If Mr S suffered any financial loss due to it cancelling any other policies, reimburse that 
loss. Mr S will have to send it evidence in this respect within 28 days of the date upon 
which he accepts my final decision, if he does. Admiral will then have to settle his losses 
plus interest* from the date the loss was incurred by Mr S until settlement is made. If 
Mr S takes longer than 28 days to provide the evidence, Admiral will have to add interest 
to the settlement from the date of loss up to the 28th day after Mr S accepts my final 
decision (if he does), and again from the date it receives the evidence until settlement is 
made.
Cease chasing Mr S for reimbursement of its outlay.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman