DRN-4383094
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly when it increased his overdraft facility. 
Mr N also says Lloyds failed to treat him fairly when he experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr N has held a current account with Lloyds for several years. In June 2019 the overdraft 
was increased from £250 to £300. Lloyds went on to increase Mr Ns overdraft facility in 
stages until it reached £3,500 in January 2021. Mr N has explained that the increases took 
place during a period of financial difficulty and contributed to his situation. 
Earlier this year, Mr N complained to Lloyds and it upheld his case. Lloyds issued a final 
response and said it had looked back to March 2019 and agreed it shouldnt have increased 
his overdraft limit from that time. As a result, Lloyds agreed to refund all overdraft charges 
applied to Mr Ns current account totalling £2,847.82. Lloyds explained it would remove the 
overdraft facility within a month which would stop future interest and charges being accrued. 
But Lloyds explained this would lead to a default being recorded on Mr Ns credit file. Lloyds 
also said it would pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had acted fairly by agreeing to refund fees and charges applied to Mr Ns overdraft. 
But the investigator thought Lloyds shouldve offered better help to Mr N during a period of 
financial hardship and asked it to pay a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. The investigator also said Lloyds should relook at the charges it had applied and 
back date them to 14 March 2019. 
Lloyds responded and confirmed it was willing to accept. Lloyds calculated a further refund 
of £32.26 was due and agreed to pay a further £150. Mr N responded and said he was 
unhappy Lloyds had taken the step of closing his account. Mr N also said he was about 
agreeing an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding balance and that the 
compensation Lloyds had paid wasnt fair. As Mr N didnt accept the investigators view, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to make a finding on whether Lloyds lent irresponsibly or not as its already 
upheld that part of Mr Ns complaint. Lloyds accepts it shouldnt have increased Mr Ns 
overdraft facility from March 2019 onwards. Mr N complained about Lloyds lending 
decisions from 2020 onwards, so its response actually goes some way beyond the original 
complaint he made. 
Lloyds refunded the charges Mr N has incurred since that time, totalling £3,253.96. Lloyds 
had already refunded fees totalling £373.88 when Mr N complained earlier this year. It 
refunded a further £2,847.82 when it responded to his complaint, taking the total refund to 
£3,253.96. When the investigator upheld Mr Ns case, they asked Lloyds to relook at the 
refunds made and it confirmed a further £32.26 is due. Ive looked at Lloyds calculations 
and Im satisfied its now agreed a fair settlement by refunding the relevant fees and 
charges. 
Whilst Lloyds has agreed refunds, that does leave an outstanding balance due on Mr Ns 
account. I understand Mr N may still be experiencing financial difficulties which means hes 
not in a position to agree a payment plan for the remaining balance. Id like to explain that 
Lloyds is only able to agree a payment plan for the remaining balance that works for Mr N 
and is affordable, having taken his circumstances into account. Lloyds is obliged to treat Mr 
N positively and sympathetically. So whilst I note Mr Ns response to the investigator, Id 
recommend he work with Lloyds to discuss any affordable repayment options. 
The settlement reached by the investigator said that once Mr N clears the outstanding 
balance, Lloyds will be required to remove the default its gone on to record on his credit file. 
I think thats a fair approach and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ns case. 
In response to the investigator, Mr N explained he was unhappy with Lloyds decision to 
close his account. But as the account was in an overdrawn position and Mr N explained he 
was unable to affordably repay the outstanding balance, Im satisfied that was a reasonable 
step for Lloyds to take. Lloyds final response explains that Mr N can ask it to remove 
account restrictions for further borrowing after 12 months at which time he can reapply. So 
Mr N has the option of reapplying for an account with Lloyds in the future which is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Lloyds agreed to pay Mr N a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I agree 
with the investigator that a further award for the trouble and upset caused to Mr N is 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. And I think a further payment of £150, 
taking the total award for the distress and inconvenience caused to £250, is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. As Lloyds has already agreed a fair settlement, Im not 
telling it to increase the award. 
Having considered all the available information, I agree with the investigators view that 
Lloyds should settle by refunding all fees, interest and charges applied to Mr Ns overdraft 
from March 2019 onwards and pay him a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle as 
follows:
- Rework Mr Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 14 March 2019 onwards are removed minus any refunds already 
paid.
AND
- If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ns credit file, it 
should backdate this to 14 March 2019.
- Once the balance is repaid, Lloyds should remove the default from Mr Ns credit file.
OR
- If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr N, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ns credit file. 
- Pay Mr N and additional £150 compensation (in addition to the £100 already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman