DRN-2860253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has not settled their travel insurance 
claim in full. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a travel insurance policy with AXA through their bank account. 
In 2019, they made a claim on it after Mrs S found herself abroad for longer than planned. 
At the time, Mrs S had been on holiday in India with a friend who unfortunately had an 
accident whilst there and required hospital admission. Mrs S had stayed with her friend for, 
beyond her planned date of return, to help support them. And she had returned to the UK 
around 10 days later, when her friends husband flew out to India to take over and look after 
his wife.
The curtailment claim that Mr and Mrs S made was for Mrs Ss unused costs and her 
additional expenses, which included her additional flight home. 
AXA confirmed coverage of the claim at first, and said it would be settled in full. But after 
further review, it said the claim wasnt covered under the policy terms. And it told 
Mr and Mrs S that he costs should be recovered through Mrs Ss friends insurance policy. 
AXA apologised for the way itd previously handled the claim thought, and it paid £150 
compensation to recognise that. It also agreed to partially settled the claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis at a later date; paying for the unused costs but not the additional flight, and 
increasing its compensation by another £100. 
Unhappy with what had happened, and having already complained to AXA about its decision 
to not settle in full, Mr and Mrs S asked this service to looked at what had happened.
Our investigator thought AXAs position was fair, and explained that the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim werent covered under their policy terms. Our investigator also said 
that although AXA had offered to cover some of the claim as a gesture of goodwill, that 
wasnt something our investigator would have recommended AXA do, even if it had not done 
so  because the claim was not covered. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They raised a number of additional points surrounding the 
circumstances of the claim, the policy terms, and the nature of travel insurance itself. But our 
investigator still thought AXAs position was fair, and so as no agreement was reached the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I realise Mr and Mrs S will be further disappointed by this, I 
will not be upholding their complaint for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, AXA has a responsibility to handle claims both 
promptly and fairly. And it mustnt reject them unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs S have told this service that they, and like many others they assume too, did not 
go through their policy wording, and had assumed theyd be protected against unforeseen 
financial losses incurred whilst travelling. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss assumptions here, but their travel insurance is not designed to 
cover every eventuality. It is designed to cover a specific set of insured events, and the 
details of those events are set out in the terms and conditions of their policy. So I have to 
take those terms and conditions into account.
Having done so, I can see that Mr and Mrs Ss policy sets out that curtailment payments will 
be paid for specified losses, and/or expenses, incurred in the event a trip is, curtailed before 
completion. Curtailment is defined as being one of the following: 
a. You abandoning or cutting short the trip after you leave your home (or for a business trip 
your place of business) by direct early return to your home or place of business, in which 
case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your home or place of business 
(whichever is the earlier) and based on the number of complete days of your trip you have 
not used
Or:
b. You attending a hospital outside your home area as an in-patient or being confined to 
your accommodation abroad due to compulsory quarantine or on the orders of a medical 
practitioner, in either case for a period in excess of 48 hours. Claims will be calculated from 
the day you were admitted to hospital or confined to your accommodation and based on the 
number of complete days for which you were hospitalised, quarantined or confined to your 
accommodation.
Mr and Mrs S have expressed their opinions about these policy terms, and I note their 
frustrations with them. But the matter I have been asked to decide here is in relation to this 
complaint. And I think its evident that one of the initial things that would need to be 
demonstrated in a claim such as the one Mr and Mrs S have made is that the trip was 
curtailed before its completion. That was not the case here however, because Mrs S stayed 
in India for longer than shed originally planned. 
Mr and Mrs S have questioned whether their claim would, or should, be covered under the 
second curtailment definition (section b), as they say Mrs S was told by medical staff in 
India to remain with her friend. 
As I think our investigator rightly explained, section B starts with the word, you. That word is 
specifically defined in the policy as meaning the holder(s) of the account and their family. 
And section B also goes on to set out that curtailment claims will only be paid for, the 
ill/injured/quarantined/confined insured person
So Mrs S wouldve needed to be the one whod been hospitalised as an inpatient, or 
quarantined or confined to her own accommodation on the orders of a medical practitioner. 
I empathise with the reasons as to why Mrs S chose to remain in India. And its clear from 
the testimonies provided in this complaint that doing so was challenging for her at times. But 
I cannot fairly conclude that the circumstances of this claim are covered under Mr and Mrs Ss policy. 
However, AXA has already partially settled this claim for what it says were fair and 
reasonable reasons. That was more than it was strictly liable to do, so I too think its decision 
to do so was both fair and reasonable. But it is clear that AXAs actions misled Mr and Mrs 
Ss expectations at times. And it has already acknowledged that it could have handled some 
parts of the claim better. 
Thinking about that here, Mr and Mrs S have set out their frustrations in relation to the 
handling of their claim. It is clear that they were initially led to believe they would be getting a 
larger settlement, they went to some effort to evidence their claim, and I appreciate realising 
it was not going to be covered at a later date was a cause of both concern and ongoing 
frustration. So I think it was right of AXA to provide compensation. 
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a 
businesses mistake has had on someone. It is not designed to be a punitive measure, and 
like our investigator, I think that the total amount of compensation already awarded by AXA 
in this complaint represents a fair and proportionate reflection of the impacts of its actions on 
Mr and Mrs S. 
So, although I realise that Mr and Mrs S may be further disappointed by my findings, I will 
not be directing AXA to increase its compensation. And I will not be directing it to take any 
further action in relation to settlement of the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman