DRN-3330304
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc irresponsibly gave her a loan she 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
In August 2014, Mrs M bought some furniture financed by a loan from Mitsubishi. The cash 
price of the furniture was £1,204. Mrs M paid a deposit of £301 and the rest was financed 
using an interest free loan from Mitsubishi payable over 18 months at £50.16 per month. 
Mrs M made all of the payments on time and paid off the loan in April 2016.
Mrs M made a complaint to Mitsubishi in July 2021 to say that the loan had been 
unaffordable to her. She said that Mitsubishi had failed to comply with rules and regulations 
in place at the time concerning responsible lending. 
Mitsubishi didnt uphold her complaint. It said that Mrs M had declared an annual salary of 
between £40,000 and £50,000 and that Mitsubishi had therefore estimated a monthly 
income of around £2,500. It said it had completed credit checks which showed Mrs M had 
credit commitments of around £710 per month as well as a mortgage which it calculated to 
be around £1,000 per month. Mitsubishi said that it halved the amount of the mortgage 
payment when calculating Mrs Ms outgoings. This was because it said Mrs M had declared 
she was married so Mitsubishi assumed half of the mortgage would be paid by her spouse. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Mitsubishi had completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
approving the loan. However, she said that even if Mitsubishi had done more (such as 
reviewing bank statements) it would likely still have lent to Mrs M because her statements 
indicated she could afford the additional borrowing. 
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary, she said:
Mitsubishi had overestimated her income by around £500 per month and had it 
asked for copies of her payslips it would have seen this. It also estimated her 
mortgage payment wrong. It was around £600 and she was responsible for the whole 
amount, it wasnt a joint mortgage. 
It wasnt reasonable for Mitsubishi to half the mortgage payment and assume her ex-
husband was contributing towards those costs. They had separated at the time and 
while he had previously contributed (although not regularly) he was no longer doing 
so.
Her total credit commitments at the time were a little under £1,900 per month. Given 
her income was around £2,000, this didnt leave her with enough for essential 
household expenditure and this loan was clearly unaffordable. 
Her current account provider was of the view that she wasnt managing her account 
well at the time and another loan she had taken out at around the same time was 
deemed to be unaffordable when she complained to the lender.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has given us a detailed account and evidence of the significant difficulties shes had 
over many years and Im sorry to hear of the issues shes had to contend with during that 
time. I want to assure her Ive read and considered these in detail as well as all of the 
submissions on the case. However, having done so, Im not persuaded that Mitsubishi has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.  
Prior to approving the lending, Mitsubishi had an obligation to lend responsibly. In short, this 
means that it had to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks to ensure 
Mrs M could afford the repayments in a sustainable way. 
There is no set list of checks that Mitsubishi were required to complete, instead it had to 
ensure that what checks it did complete were proportionate in these specific circumstances. 
When deciding what is proportionate, Mitsubishi needed to consider things such as (but not 
limited to): the total repayable including the size and frequency of any repayments, the cost 
of the borrowing, any deposit that was paid, the term and Mrs Ms circumstances. This 
means that different lending decisions are likely to have different expectations for what is 
considered proportionate.
Mitsubishi says that it asked Mrs M about her income and employment, to which she 
confirmed shed been with the same employer over 25 years and had an annual salary in the 
range of £40,000 to £50,000. The application said she owned her own home with a 
mortgage still outstanding and that she was married. Mitsubishi said that it completed a 
credit check which showed her credit commitments, including her mortgage were around 
£1,700 per month. However, after halving the mortgage commitment this meant her credit 
commitments were around £1,200 per month. As it calculated Mrs Ms monthly income to be 
around £2,500, it concluded that she had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments sustainably.
Taking into consideration the specific circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that Mitsubishi 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before lending.
I say this because there was to be no cost to Mrs M for borrowing as the agreement was 
interest free. Further, shed put down a sizeable deposit relative to the amount borrowed 
being 25% (£301) of the total cash price of the goods she was purchasing. Ive noted that 
there was no adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file at the time in the way of 
late/missed payments, defaults, payment arrangements or court judgements to suggest she 
may have been struggling to meet existing commitments. And lastly, she appeared to be in 
stable employment with a reasonable income which appeared to be able to comfortably 
cover her credit commitments (even if using the total figure of £1,700). For all these reasons, 
I dont think there was any reasonable grounds to say Mitsubishi ought to have completed 
more thorough affordability checks.
Mrs M says it was unreasonable for Mitsubishi to have assumed her ex-husband was 
contributing half of the payments towards the mortgage. Im inclined to agree with her on that 
point. Just because Mrs M was married it didnt automatically mean that her ex-husband 
earned an income or earned enough to be able to support paying half of the mortgage commitment, particularly because it wasnt a joint mortgage and Mitsubishi would have been 
able to see that. However, the information it gathered at the point of application suggested 
shed be able to afford the full amount on her own, so I dont consider their actions in halving 
the amount to make any material difference to what a proportionate check ought to have 
been.
I note Mrs M has also highlighted what she says is a discrepancy in Mitsubishis checks 
whereby they said her mortgage payment was around £1,000. She says this was incorrect 
as her mortgage was only around £600. However, having reviewed the information, I dont 
think Mitsubishi did make an error. This is because when calculating what Mrs Ms mortgage 
commitment was it combined all the repayments she was making towards secured loans. As 
well as the £600 Mrs M says was her mortgage, she had another secured loan with 
repayments of around £400 per month. I cant be certain the security with the second loan 
was against her home as the information isnt clear, but in any event, I dont think the 
assumption Mitsubishi made was an unreasonable one given what type of lending it was. 
And, it ultimately made no difference. As Ive said above, even taking into account all the 
credit commitments Mitsubishi could see, Mrs Ms estimated income of around £2,500 
appeared to be sufficient. 
Mrs M says that Mitsubishi should have verified her income using payslips, and had it done 
this it would have seen she was earning £500 less per month than had been estimated. 
However, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont consider that Mitsubishi acted 
unreasonably in not requesting payslips from Mrs M. This is because of the high deposit she 
paid, the fact the agreement was interest free with relatively modest repayments over a 
reasonably short term and that there was nothing that ought to have raised concerns within 
the application or the credit check about affordability. 
I note that Mitsubishis estimate of her income wasnt unreasonable either. Mrs Ms payslip 
shows that she would have earned approximately £2,500 per month, however a little over 
£400 was deducted by her employer towards a loan she had with them. Mitsubishi had no 
reasonable way of knowing about this, nor, as Ive said above, do I think they ought to have 
found out, as I think their initial checks were proportionate. 
It's worth noting that even if Mitsubishi had asked for payslips (which I dont consider they 
needed to in the specific circumstances here), I dont think this ought to have changed the 
lending decision anyway. I say this because had it done so I think it ought to have also 
verified Mrs Ms financial circumstances more closely (given that it would have seen her 
income was much lower than expected). But had it done this it would likely have seen from 
her bank statements that her ex-husband was paying her an amount of around £1,200 per 
month. This combined with her lower personal income would still have been enough to 
demonstrate the new lending was likely to be affordable to her. 
Mrs M says that her ex-husband stopped making these contributions at the time of the 
application and that she had made it clear to the sales-person that she was currently 
separated from him. I cant be certain what was discussed, but Ive noted that on the 
application Mrs Ms marital status was listed as married and Mitsubishi have shown us that 
separated was an option available to her for selection at the time. While its possible Mrs M 
did tell the sales-person what her circumstances are, the contemporaneous evidence 
doesnt support that.  
Mrs M has pointed to information provided by her current account provider which she says 
indicates that they were of the view her overdraft was unmanageable and that shed been 
utilising it for a long time. However, as Ive stated above, I think Mitsubishi gathered a 
reasonable amount of information during the application process and completed 
proportionate affordability checks. I dont think the results of these checks revealed anything that ought to have caused Mitsubishi concerns about Mrs Ms ability to repay an interest free 
loan of which shed put forward a 25% deposit on. 
Lastly, Mrs M says that around the same time as taking out this Mitsubishi loan she had 
entered into a loan agreement for the purchase of a different item with a different lender. She 
says she made a complaint to that lender who upheld her complaint and refunded everything 
that was paid, including the capital amount she borrowed. She considers that as the 
Mitsubishi loan was taken out at the same time this demonstrates that a similar finding 
should be made with this loan. However, I dont agree. 
I say this as just because it made that offer, it doesnt automatically mean that another 
lender ought to do the same or that another lender acted unfairly or unreasonably. As Ive 
set out above, what is reasonable and proportionate will vary with each lending decision. 
I have considered the actions of Mitsubishi when lending to Mrs M and Im satisfied on the 
specific evidence and circumstances presented to me by both her and Mitsubishi that the 
lending decision wasnt unfair or unreasonable. I therefore make no award or direction to put 
things right.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman