DRN-3660553
The complaint
Mr B complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) wont refund him £7,000 that he lost when 
he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr B had been looking for a motorbike online when he came across an advert on an auction 
site for one he liked the look of.  Mr B contacted the seller and was told the motorbike would 
need to be delivered to him, by a third-party delivery company, as the seller was currently 
living in another part of the UK. Mr B was told that any payments would be made via PayPal 
to the third-party shipping company who would then hold the funds on his behalf until he 
confirmed he was happy with the motorbike. Mr B did complete some checks on the 
motorbike itself, including that the MOT was registered in the sellers name.  
Mr B then logged into his online banking and transferred the total cost of the motorbike to 
what he thought was a PayPal account but which was actually the fraudsters account. And, 
eventually, when the motorbike didnt arrive, Mr B became suspicious and realised hed 
been scammed. He reported the scam to AIB as soon as he realised what had happened. 
AIB contacted the recipient bank in order to see if it could retrieve any of Mr Bs funds. But 
by this time, all of the funds had been removed and AIB declined to offer Mr B a refund of 
the amount he had lost. It said one of its agents had contacted Mr B to verify the payment 
after he had requested it online. It said the agent discussed the risks of vehicle scams with 
Mr B at the time and he had confirmed he had been happy to proceed. AIB also said it had 
followed the correct procedures in contacting the beneficiary bank in attempting to recover 
Mr Bs funds. But as the money had already been removed from the recipient account, there 
wasnt anything further it could do. 
Unhappy with AIBs response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that were a number of things said in the telephone conversation between Mr B 
and AIBs agent that shouldve put AIB on notice that Mr B might be about to fall victim to a 
scam. She therefore felt that AIB couldve prevented this scam from the outset. 
AIB didnt accept our investigators findings and it asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. Having done so, Im 
minded to reach the same outcome as our investigator - for largely the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider AIB should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. This is particularly so given the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether AIB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr B when he transferred £7,000 to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether 
it should have done more than it did. 
It is not in dispute that Mr B authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, AIB had an 
obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained above. In this case, AIB did contact Mr B to discuss the payment before it left his 
account and I acknowledge that vehicle scams were discussed. However, I dont think this 
conversation went far enough and I think AIB couldve uncovered the scam here, Ill explain 
why. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call that took place between Mr B and AIB and Im satisfied 
that there were a number of things said in the telephone conversation between Mr B and AIB 
that shouldve put AIB on notice that Mr B was about to fall victim to a scam. During the call 
AIBs agent asks Mr B to confirm the purpose of the payment he had just made and the 
circumstances that Mr B sets out  that he is paying for a motorbike that he hasnt seen and 
that he has been told will be delivered to him with a money back guarantee should anything 
be amiss - has all the hallmarks of a well-known scam. This should have been the type of 
thing that calls like the one made here are designed to uncover and Im satisfied that the 
information put forward by Mr B shouldve put AIB on notice that something might be amiss. 
However, the focus of the call appears to be on warning Mr B about the type of scams AIB 
has seen recently and the checks he has completed on the motorbike itself rather than 
engaging with the reasons why Mr B is saying he is making the payment, which Im satisfied 
should have given AIB, as the industry expert, cause for concern.
In addition to the circumstances provided by Mr B, he also says he is making a payment to 
PayPal and more specifically, to PayPals escrow service. But this isnt a service that PayPal offer. It also should have been clear that Mr B wasnt making a payment via PayPal. If he 
had been, the payment would be made via his PayPal account, not via a bank transfer.  
In summary, Im satisfied that there were a number of red flags here, that AIB, as the 
industry expert, should have picked up on. Mr Bs circumstances had all the hallmarks of a 
classic vehicle scam. And Im satisfied that had AIB pointed this out to Mr B at the time, the 
scam couldve been prevented. Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve continued with the 
payment. He says a number of things during the call that suggest he is looking for 
reassurance from the bank that everything is above board.  
I understand that AIB have queried why our investigator felt that one of its agents wouldve 
been expected to know that PayPal do not offer an escrow service. I am aware that they 
have asked to be directed to where this is documented. I want to make it clear that I am not 
saying that AIBs agents should know the inner workings of PayPal. But I would expect them 
to be able to identify the key characteristics of well-known scams  such as this one. Telling 
the customer that the funds will be held in escrow until the vehicle is delivered is a well-
known tactic used by fraudsters in scams such as this and I would expect AIB, as the 
industry expert, to have known this. 
AIB have also queried why the customer saying they were making a payment to PayPal 
shouldve been picked up on as strange. Theyve pointed out that paying for goods and 
services via PayPal is a method of payment used by millions of customers each day. And so 
I also want to make it clear that Mr B saying he was paying via PayPal shouldve caused 
concern in this particular scenario because he wasnt making a payment through PayPal at 
all, he was requesting a bank transfer via his bank and he was discussing this payment with 
his bank at the time. And so it shouldve been clear to AIB that what Mr B thought was 
happening, wasnt what was happening at all. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the conversation AIB had with Mr B didnt go far enough and 
crucial red-flags were not picked up on when they shouldve been. The scam warning 
provided during the call was generic in nature and not tailored to Mr Bs specific 
circumstances despite AIB being informed of them at the time. I am satisfied that AIB missed 
an opportunity to identify that Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud which couldve 
ultimately prevented the scam. Im therefore persuaded it should fairly and reasonably 
reimburse Mr B for the loss he suffered, without any reduction, together with interest, to 
compensate him for being deprived of his funds.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about AIB Group (UK) PLC and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mr B £7,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; 
Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date of the loss to the 
date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman