DRN-3570804
The complaint
Mr Z complains Fairmead Insurance Limited have unfairly declined his buildings insurance
claim.
All references to Fairmead also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly in declining the claim for storm damage
to the roof, for these reasons:
The policy defines a storm as winds of over 47mph. It also says heavy persistent rain
on its own is not a storm, unless it is a torrential downpour, with over an inch of rain,
in a one-hour period.
Mr Zs contractor attended the property in July 2021 and attributed the damage to
storms and heavy rain that occurred over the previous weekend
Local weather data in Mr Zs postcode around the time of the incident doesnt show
rainfall or windspeed that is either close to or meeting the policy definition of a storm.
Ive considered whether Mr Z wouldve been covered under a different section of the
policy  and note he had accidental damage cover in place.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as damage caused suddenly and
unexpectedly by an outside force. But based on the weather conditions present, Im
not persuaded the wind and rain alone could have done this. And from looking at
photos of the roof and noting its general condition, I think its more likely the issue 
has been a result of a gradual deterioration or wear and tear  which I note Fairmead
will not cover under the terms and conditions of the policy.
For these reasons, I think Fairmead have acted fairly in declining this part of
Mr Zs claim.
However, Ive also considered what Mr Z said about the delays in providing a payment for
the internal damage.
Fairmead requested invoices and details regarding the internal damage, which it
acknowledged itd received from Mr Z in early September 2021.
I can see from internal correspondence Fairmead was considering this aspect to see
if it could cover Mr Z, which is reasonable. However, I can see it also asked Mr Z for
the invoices for internal work again in October 2021; information it already had.
I can see from correspondence this was frustrating for Mr Z. He was waiting for a
response on all aspects of his complaint - and he had told Fairmead that he already
made payments for internal works.
Fairmead later confirmed it would cover Mr Z for the internal damage. And it would
make the payment within five to seven days. Fairmead acknowledged there was a
short delay in making the payment to Mr Z in its final response.
Considering everything Ive set out above. I think Fairmead have caused Mr Z some
inconvenience in asking for information it already had, and in a small delay in
payment to him. So, it should pay Mr Z £75 compensation as I think this fairly 
recognises the inconvenience he has been caused.
So for these reasons, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead responded to say it accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add.
Mr Z provided no further response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr Z or Fairmead have provided any additional points or comments for me to 
consider, I feel no reason to depart from the findings of my provisional decision. 
So for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Zs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr Z £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman