DRN-4367503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policies. They also complain about the service they received following their 
claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2021, Mr and Mrs G booked a trip which included a 
cruise starting in Canada and ending in the USA. The departure and return dates of their 
trip were 11 October 2022 and 23 October 2022 respectively. 
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs G each took out an annual multi-trip policy underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The policies covered the period 11 October 2021 to 10 October 2022. The 
geographical limit of the policies was worldwide, excluding USA, Canada, Mexico and 
the Caribbean.
In August 2022, Mr G was diagnosed with a serious health condition and required 
emergency surgery. Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip. The trip provider said that there 
was no refund under the terms and conditions of their booking. Mr and Mrs G made a 
claim against their policies in relation to their unused, non-refundable costs and 
expenses. In February 2023, Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the destination of                    
Mr and Mrs Gs cancelled trip wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs G complain about Great Lakes decision to decline their claim. They know 
that their policies didnt include cover for a visit to Canada and say that they didnt intend 
to go there during the policy year. Mr and Mrs G say they are claiming under their 
policies for cancellation of a future trip. Mr and Mrs G say that their claim has nothing to 
do with increased medical costs in the countries not covered by their policies
Mr and Mrs G also complain about Great Lakes delay in coming to a decision. They say 
that Great Lakes asked for information they had already provided and put them to 
unnecessary trouble and expense by asking for extensive medical records.                    
Mr and Mrs G want Great Lakes to settle their claim for cancellation. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. The investigator didnt think that 
Great Lakes had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim, but 
she thought that it had caused them distress and inconvenience in its handling of their 
claim. The investigator recommended compensation of £200. 
Great Lakes accepted what the investigator said but Mr and Mrs G did not. They said, in 
summary: 
The outcome of their claim depends on whether destination includes all potential 
future destinations, beyond the policy year and whether the policy document 
makes that clear. 
They bought the policies for destinations they were planning to visit in the policy 
year 2021-2022.
The policies had only one benefit  - cancellation - in relation to holidays taken 
beyond the policy year.
The day the policies expired, they planned to take out new policies to cover the 
following years destinations. 
The policy wording is ambiguous or irrelevant, as no trip destination in the policy 
year was outside the geographical limits covered by the policy. 
Cancellation cover terminates at the start of the trip, so the geographical limits 
have no bearing on a claim for cancellation. 
Its unfair to require them to pay a higher premium for additional risks that didnt 
apply in their case. 
The difference in premium in relation to geographical limits is presumably 
because of higher medical costs in certain countries. Thats irrelevant in their 
case. 
The reason Great Lakes gave for declining the claim isnt covered by the policy 
terms. 
They could have claimed for another trip due to take place in March 2023, but 
they didnt do so because they thought this claim was progressing. A claim for 
the other trip could have been successful if this claim had been declined on day 
one. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the claim was passed to me to decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about how Great Lakes dealt 
with their claim following cancellation of their trip which was due to take place in      
October 2022, as thats the complaint they made to Great Lakes. If Mr and Mrs G wish to 
complain about a claim for a cancelled trip which was due to take place in March 2023, 
they should complain to Great Lakes in the first instance. If they are not happy with 
Great Lakes response, they may refer the matter to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs Gs position. Through no fault of their own,  
they had to cancel their trip. Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs G have very 
strong feelings about this matter. They have provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which I have read and considered. However, I trust that they will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.     
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions, the relevant parts of which say  as follows:
About your contract:
Your policy is a legal contract between you and us. The two parts  your Policy Booklet 
and your travel insurance certificate and schedule  make one legal document and you 
must read them together.
[]
Our part of the contract is as follows:
We provide the cover set out in your Policy Booklet. Your travel insurance certificate and 
schedule shows which sections of your Policy Booklet you chose, and the total premium. 
This cover will only apply for people named on your travel insurance certificate and schedule 
during the insurance period shown on your travel insurance certificate and schedule and 
within the geographical limits shown on your travel insurance certificate and schedule.
[]
Changes in circumstances:
You must tell us as soon as reasonably possible if:
[]
Your trip destination changes and is outside the geographical limits covered by your 
policy
Section 2: Cancellation and cutting short your trip
[]
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table for 
the level of cover you have selected, for your share of the cost of your trip as a result 
of:
The death, injury or illness, as certified by a medical practitioner, of you [or] your 
relative [] 
The travel insurance certificates and schedules include the following:
Countries of travel Worldwide excluding US, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean
has Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim, but I think that 
there were errors in its handling of the claim. Ill explain why Ive come to those conclusions:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the 
documentation. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one 
of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. The event which led to the claim  the cancellation of the trip  occurred within the 
policy year. But thats not the end of the matter. The cancellation cover only applies 
within the geographical limits shown in the certificate and schedule. The geographical 
scope of Mr and Mrs Gs cover was Worldwide excluding US, Canada, Mexico and 
the Caribbean. So, their policies didnt cover the destinations of the cancelled trip. 
That means that Mr and Mrs G didnt have cancellation cover for their trip. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs G that the policies provided cancellation cover for trips 
planned to take place beyond the policy year. But the geographical limits of the 
policies still apply. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G bought the policies for destinations they planned to 
visit in the 2021-2022 policy year. But if they wanted cancellation cover for their trip 
planned for October 2022 they would need to tell Great Lakes that they planned a trip 
outside their policies geographical limits. It may then have reassessed                     
Mr and Mrs Gs cover and premium. 
Great Lakes acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies in 
declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim. Ive gone on to consider whether Great Lakes 
decision was fair and reasonable. I think it was. I think that the geographical limits 
were clear. And Great Lakes set out that it required notification if the trip destination 
is outside the policies geographical limits. 
Mr and Mrs G have speculated about why Great Lakes charges a higher premium for 
cover of wider geographical areas and say that increased medical costs in certain 
destinations are irrelevant in their case. I dont think thats central to their claim. It 
remains the case that Mr and Mrs Gs policies didnt cover what happened here. I 
agree that medical costs in the destination country are irrelevant in cases of 
cancellation. But, in general terms, insurers are free to charge a higher premium for 
wider geographical cover. 
I think there were errors and delays in Great Lakes handling of the claim.                
Mr and Mrs G made the claim in October 2022 but didnt receive Great Lakes 
decision until February 2023. Thats considerably longer than wed expect a claim 
like this to take.
Mr and Mrs G were asked to provide information they had already provided and put 
to the trouble and expense of obtaining information from Mr Gs GP, which wasnt in 
fact necessary. Great Lakes also said that it would only deal with Mr Gs claim when 
it was clear from the claim form that this was a joint claim. That confusion may have 
arisen because Mr and Mrs G each had a policy, but it should have been clear to 
Great Lakes that both Mr and Mrs G wished to make a claim. 
In its final response to Mr G, Great Lakes apologised for the fact that the claim wasnt 
declined sooner and for avoidable correspondence. I think that a fair resolution of this 
complaint requires compensation of £200 for Mr and Mrs Gs distress and 
inconvenience. That sum includes the small expense they incurred in providing 
unnecessary medical records. In reaching that view Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of Mr and Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience caused by 
Great Lakes errors in this case. Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation of £200 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay Mr and Mrs G compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman