DRN-3658922
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd sent back payments made into his account and then 
closed his account. He wants the funds which were returned to sender refunded to him and 
compensation. Mr Ds also unhappy with the way Monzo handled things.
What happened
Mr D had three Monzo accounts  a personal account, joint account and business account. 
This decision will focus on Mr Ds personal account.
Mr D says he is a watch collector and recently he and a friend set up a watch trading 
business, buying and selling high value watches. In June 2020, Mr D says he advertised a 
watch and was contacted by an individual, I shall refer to as R. Mr D says R bought the 
watch. And hes provided invoices and social media messages to support this. 
Within days of the sale, Mr D says that R contacted him again asking him to source another 
high value watch, for his wife. Mr D says he sold R another watch, for just over £6,000. Mr D 
says R made two payments (£4,800 and £1,415) into his personal account to pay for the 
watch on 24 June 2020. 
Mr D says he sourced a suitable watch, which involved him making a payment of £3,950 to 
an associate T. And once he was in possession of the watch, he sold it to R on 25th June 
2020. Again, Mr D has provided copies of invoices, paperwork relating to a ladies watch, and 
social media messages which he says supports his explanation for receiving the two 
payments into his account.
Monzo blocked Mr Ds account whilst it looked into the activity on Mr Ds account. And then 
decided to close it immediately. Monzo subsequently returned the two payments Mr D 
received, back to the sending banks following a recall request. Monzo also released funds 
remaining in Mr Ds account back to him. 
Mr D complained to Monzo. He said the bank shouldnt have returned any money and that 
hes been the victim of fraud as hes now out of pocket and R is in possession of a high 
value watch which he maintains hed sold legitimately. Mr D also said it had taken Monzo too 
long to return the balance of his accounts to him, the bank had given him conflicting 
information about this and had taken too long to deal with his Data Subject Access request 
(DSAR). So, he said Monzo should return the money he says hes owed and pay him 
compensation.
In response, Monzo apologised for causing Mr D any confusion and sending what it 
accepted as mixed messages about the timing of when Mr D would receive his account 
balance. And it accepted that it had taken longer than usual to process Mr Ds DSAR and 
return his account balance to him. Monzo offered Mr D a total of £395.50 compensation for 
providing Mr D with poor service. But it explained that it had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it returned the payments to the senders and hadnt done anything wrong 
when it had closed Mr Ds account. 
Mr D accepted Monzos offer of compensation, but he says he is still out of pocket and also 
wants the payments Monzo sent back, refunded to him. So, he brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into what happened.
The investigator decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. They concluded:
Monzo could close Mr Ds account in accordance with the banks terms and 
conditions. It had closed Mr Ds account immediately and based on the reasons they 
provided to our service their decision was reasonable.
Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when it had returned the payments to source.
Mr D disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. He maintained he sold goods to 
R, so hes entitled to the money Monzo sent back to source.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made detailed submissions to us in support of his complaint, which includes 
paperwork regarding the sale of watches. Ive reviewed all the material he has submitted. Im 
not going to cover all the points raised by Mr D in his detailed submissions. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. But Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Monzo has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only 
pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility 
to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. To comply 
with its obligations Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers 
access to accounts and funds held within them.  
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for 
Monzo to block Mr Ds account. Monzo has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Monzo were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr D inconvenience 
when it decided to block his account, I cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated him 
unfairly in doing so. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr D compensation since I 
dont find the bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that hes unhappy Monzo returned money paid into his 
account to source  in other words it sent money back to where it came from. He says he 
hasnt done anything wrong and the money was payment for a watch hed sold. 
Ive looked at the information Monzo relied on when it decided to return the payments that 
had been made into Mr Ds account back to source. And Ive looked at the information Mr D 
has provided and what hes said about the money coming into his account. Having done so, 
Im not satisfied that Mr D has demonstrated that he is entitled to the payments made into 
his account on 24 June 2020. So, returning the payments to source was the right action for 
Monzo to take in the circumstances. In doing so Monzo were complying with their regulatory 
obligations. The terms of the account also permit them to take this action. So, I wont be 
directly Monzo to return the money to Mr D.I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Monzo has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Mr D, but 
Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Mr D says he doesnt understand why Monzo were happy to release most of the funds in his 
account back to him but not the two payments that credited his account on 24 June 2020. As 
Ive already explained, Im not satisfied that  Mr D hasnt demonstrated he's entitled to these 
funds. Monzo have already allowed him to withdraw most of the money paid into his 
account, which is more than fair in the circumstances.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ds account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene.  
Banks should give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that means 60 
days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case Monzo closed 
Mr Ds account without notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that wasnt 
unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations when it closed the account. 
In summary, based on the full circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive 
received from both parties, Im satisfied Monzos actions are fair. So, it follows that I wont be 
asking Monzo to do anything more to resolve Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman