DRN-3570492
The complaint
Mr J complains that he has had ongoing issues with Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(APS) after he closed his accounts with them.    
What happened
In early October 2020, APS placed restrictions on some of Mr Js accounts. Eventually, Mr J 
made the decision to close all his account with. Mr J asked for any funds remaining in his 
personal account to be sent to an account with a third party in his name. However, APS 
didnt carry out this instruction. Around the time that Mr Js account was restricted, he says 
APS accepted a payment into his account from a client which he feels they should not have 
done. He says this affected his relationship with the client.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service shortly after that point. APS then issued a final 
response letter in which they said they had restricted access to his account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the accounts. They asked Mr J to provide a sort code and account 
number where they could send the remaining £515.10 in one of his accounts. Mr J provided 
this information via e-mail. At the same time Mr J requested statements for all his account so 
he could know the final balances and where his funds had been transferred to in case any 
more was missing. 
In March 2021, APS asked Mr J for a statement from the account that he wanted the 
£515.10 to be transferred to. In November 2021, our Investigator issued a view in which she 
said APS should issue Mr J with statements on all his accounts. She also said that APS had 
taken too long to process the transfer of £515,10 and had delayed the process by not setting 
out all the information required in their final response letter. The investigator said that APS 
should action the transfer as soon as possible and should pay Mr J £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience the delays had caused him.
APS completed the transfer of £515.10 on 31 January 2022. It also ordered statements to be 
sent to Mr Js address. Mr J said he received all but two statements, and the ones he did 
receive showed final balances being transferred out of the accounts, but it was unclear 
where they were transferred to. Meaning Mr J had questions about whether he received all 
the final balances from all his accounts. APS provided evidence that some of the remaining 
balances had been transferred to accounts in Mr Js name and explained it was more likely 
Mr J made these transfers himself prior to closing his accounts. 
Our investigator issued a second view in which she said that while APS should re-issue the 
statements that Mr J says he has still not received, its likely these will also show Mr J 
himself transferred the funds out of the account before they were closed. She said that APS 
had not actioned the transfer of the £515.10 in a timely manner after she directed them to in 
her view. As a result, she recommended an increase in the level of compensation from £150 
to £300 in recognition of the additional delays.
APS did not agree with this as they felt nothing had essentially changed since the 
investigators first view. They explained that they had ordered the statements and arranged 
for them to be sent to Mr J. And if he had not received all of them, he could contact customer 
services himself directly to arrange for new ones to be sent to him. 
Mr J was unhappy as he still had not received all the statements from his accounts and 
because of that, was still not satisfied all his account balances had been correctly transferred 
out when they were closed down. Because an informal agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
Following some further discussions with the business, they were able to produce the missing 
statements which were forwarded to Mr J. Along with evidence showing that the final 
balance for one of Mr Js accounts was transferred out to another account in Mr Js name 
prior to it closing.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the previous recommendation of £300 compensation to Mr J in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience the various delays caused him.
This complaint is about what occurred after Mr Js accounts were restricted and he asked for 
all his accounts with APS be closed. So, I havent considered what happened before this. 
Ill first consider the issue with the statements. Mr J first requested copies of all his 
statements in late 2020. Our investigator said as part of their view in November 2021 that 
APS should provide these, even though they had said it was a costly process to do so and 
that Mr J should be requesting these through a specific channel. I can see that APS provided 
us with a list of all the accounts that they had requested statements be sent to Mr J for, and 
Im satisfied this includes all the accounts he held with them. 
Mr J has said he did not receive all the statements and two were missing. These have since 
been provided to Mr J, but he has rejected them as statements because they do not have 
the account name or number on them and appear more like spreadsheets. While I 
appreciate that they do not look like traditional statements, they do provide a breakdown of 
the transactions made on his accounts, so I think they are sufficient for what he has 
requested. Though I understand Mr J may not agree.
I recognise there has been a delay in Mr J receiving all the statements since APS were 
instructed to do so by the investigator. On balance, I have no reason to doubt that all the 
statements were organised to be sent to Mr J by APS in January 2021. While I do think they 
could have organised for these to be sent sooner, I can see they have now all been 
provided. These delays have been considered when forming my decision on the level of 
appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr J has been caused by APS 
actions.
Mr J requested the statements so he could reconcile all his accounts and be sure all the final 
balances were correctly sent to other accounts in his name with third party banks. When he 
received the statements he had requested, he was still unsure where the final balances had 
been sent as it did not show this information on the statements. Because of this, we 
requested evidence of where the final balances had been transferred to. These have shown that, aside from the £515.10 APS paid in January 2022 and £53.10 that 
APS sent to Mr J in December 2021, all other final balances in his accounts were transferred 
on 3 October 2020 to accounts with the payee name of Mr J. These were completed prior to 
the accounts being closed and so would have been completed by Mr J himself. So, Im 
satisfied Mr J has received all the final balances from the accounts he held with APS. And I 
think its more likely Mr J was aware that the balances had been transferred by himself prior 
to the accounts being closed.
I note Mr J was unhappy that £648 had been accepted into one of his business accounts 
when it was restricted, and this has damaged his reputation with a client. Ive considered this 
and I can see that the payment was sent to Mr Js account on 9 October 2020 while the 
account was restricted. When a decision was made to close Mr Js account on 26 October 
2020, the payment was arranged to be returned to the sender. APS has acknowledged it 
should have returned the funds sooner in its final response letter. And I agree it could have 
done, though I do note it returned it to the sender as soon as they made the decision to 
close his account and that they would not be lifting the restriction on the account.
It isnt disputed that there have been significant delays in Mr J receiving the final balance 
from one of his accounts totalling £515.10. It appears that Mr J also attempted to transfer out 
the balance of that account on 3 October 2020 but was unable to as the account had already 
been restricted.  APS asked for an account number and sort code where they should send 
the funds to in their final response letter, and I can see that Mr J responded almost 
immediately with his account details. APS has said he sent this to a different department 
which is why it was not processed. But I can see Mr J then forwarded the same e-mail with 
his account details to the complaints department in November 2020. 
APS asked Mr J for a statement for the account he wanted the funds transferred to in March 
2021. I can appreciate this is likely for security purposes, but I think this was an 
unreasonable delay considering Mr J had first given them information about the account he 
wanted the funds transferred to, to the correct department, in November 2020.  Even after 
our investigator instructed them to make the transfer in November 2021, it still took APS over 
two months to do so. Overall, this has been a significant delay for a transfer that should 
reasonably have been completed within a month. 
Because of the delay in Mr J receiving statements for his account, as well as the final 
balances on two of his accounts totalling £515.10 and £53.10, I require APS to pay Mr J 
£300 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this has caused him. I 
appreciate Mr J feels this should be higher but taking into consideration all of the factors of 
this complaint, £300 feels fair. 
I note that Mr J has previously requested a refund of the annual account fees he paid prior to 
closing his accounts. I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr J but ultimately, the accounts 
were closed in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts either at APS request or 
Mr Js. The timing of the annual fee varied but they were typically charged a few months 
before the accounts were closed, so I cant agree Mr J has had no benefit from the accounts 
and I therefore think its reasonable the accounts fees have not been refunded by APS. 
I appreciate Mr J thinks APS banking licence should be revoked due to the delays he has 
incurred, as he feels APS has breached banking regulations. However, this is not something 
I have the jurisdiction to recommend as it is outside the scope of our organisation.    Putting things right
APS should pay Mr J £300 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
the delays have caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman