DRN-3311713
The complaint
Mr As representative, his mother (Miss C), complains on his behalf about Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax referred to as Halifax or the business. 
Miss C is unhappy that Halifax failed to provide annual statements for the last three years 
and account for the drop in value of her sons Child Trust Fund (CTF).  
What happened
In February 2020, Miss C was notified that the CTF was being transferred/taken over by a 
new business. In due course, she received statements showing that the value had 
significantly decreased. 
Miss C was upset and requested a copy of previous statements from 2017, 2018 and 2019. 
Halifax was unable to provide this information and decided that the new business would be 
best placed to deal with her complaint. The new business confirmed that it could only 
provide information from the point it took over the investment  on 10 April 2020  when the 
value was £19,329. 
In due course, Miss C complained to Halifax which partially upheld the complaint and offered 
£300 compensation for the poor service provided. However, Halifax didnt accept that it was 
to blame for not being able to provide copies of the previous statements. 
Halifax explained that it wasnt in a position to provide those statements because the 
(original) external administrator had destroyed them  as it was obliged to under data 
protection laws  after its relationship ended with Halifax and the new business took over.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response Miss C referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: 
Halifax quite rightly accepts responsibility for the poor service provided. It referred 
Miss Cs complaint to the new business when it shouldve dealt with her complaint. 
Miss C has wanted the statements since 2020 but Halifax didnt provide a clear 
answer until 2022. 
Although Halifax was the fund manager, it had a (third-party) external fund 
administrator. The administrator destroyed the previous statements after its 
relationship with Halifax ended  and the CTF was taken over by the new business  
and thats why Halifax was unable to provide this information. 
Based on the available information provided by the new business hes satisfied that 
this was an in-specie transfer, so the money remained invested. 
The fund was directly invested in the FTSE 100 index and therefore hes unable 
disregard the impact of the global pandemic on the financial markets. In March 2020, 
the markets were at its lowest since 1987 as referenced by Halifax.
Despite what Miss C wants and says, Halifax simply cant provide statements that it 
doesnt have. It also wouldnt be reasonable to ask Halifax to pay £10,000  to make 
up the difference in the CTF value  when it hasnt done anything wrong. 
Miss C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
She wasnt previously aware of the interplay between the external administrator and 
Halifax. 
She cant understand why the previous information couldnt be transferred to the new 
business or Halifax. 
Shed like the investigator to re-consider the following:
oLack of production of the statements. 
oThe obligation on Halifax to produce this information on request. 
oReach a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint that reflects and 
deals with the loss incurred.  
She doesnt dispute that there was a significant dip in the market in March 2020, but 
whilst the market has recovered her sons CTF hasnt. The figures quoted dont 
amount to the loss suffered by her sons CTF. 
Failure to deal with her complaint appropriately will result in legal action. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Hes already investigated the complaint and issued his view. 
Whilst we have an obligation to consider the law, were not lawyers and therefore not 
obliged to provide a legal opinion.  
Were not able to challenge the record keeping of a third-party administrator in this 
case. 
Hes satisfied that the redress offered by Halifax is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Hes unable to say that Halifax is responsible for the fall in value of the CTF. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss C says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably.
However, I think the offer of redress in the sum of £300  in respect of the poor service 
provided  is broadly fair and reasonable. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very
much recognise Miss Cs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. Myrole is to consider the evidence presented by Miss C (on behalf of Mr A) and the business, 
and reach what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant blame Halifax for not being able to 
provide Miss C with the statements for the last three years in response to her (recent) 
request because they no longer exist.  
Generally, a business isnt obliged to retain information indefinitely, and in this instance, I 
understand that the previous annual statements (held electronically) were destroyed by the 
administrator and data-processor, after its relationship with Halifax ended and the new 
business took over management of the fund. Therefore, Halifax was and still is physically 
unable to obtain this information for Miss C. 
Whether or not it was possible to transfer this information to Halifax  rather than destroying 
it  is not a question I need to answer to decide this case. 
The above notwithstanding, Im mindful Miss C accepts that she has previously been 
provided with the statements for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 but no longer has them. Im 
therefore satisfied that Halifax has previously furnished Miss C with this information in line 
with its obligations to do so, so its not like Miss C hasnt ever seen this information.  
Just because Halifax cant re-supply this information  after it was destroyed by a third-party 
business  considering changing circumstances  doesnt of itself mean that it has done 
anything wrong. If shes unhappy about the way her sons information has been dealt with  
and whether or not the administrator was right to destroy this information  she may want to 
consider making a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), its not 
something that I have jurisdiction to consider. 
I appreciate Miss Cs concerns about the value of the CTF. However, Halifax isnt 
responsible for the decrease in share prices. Im aware that the value is dependent on the 
stock market, and its not something that the business can predict or control. Despite what 
Miss C says, Im unable to disregard the impact the global pandemic has had on the 
financial markets. Im aware that the funds remained invested in the same fund when it was 
moved to the new business so wouldve been exposed to market volatility. 
I appreciate what Miss C wants in order to resolve this complaint, but I have no basis to ask 
Halifax to pay £10,000 because it hasnt done anything wrong. 
Using the limited information provided by the administrator, Halifax has confirmed the value 
of the investment transferred to the new business. This information coincides with what the 
new business has also confirmed, therefore Im unable say that Mr A has suffered a financial 
loss for which Halifax is responsible. 
I appreciate Miss C and Mr A will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive not upheld the complaint. I 
realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not 
persuaded to require the business to do anything.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold
this complaint and give Mr A what he wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman