DRN-3964945
The complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited wont pay to replace a bathroom sink 
damaged by their contractor when he attended to fix the plug. 
What happened
Mr R has an insurance policy with British Gas which covers his boiler, central heating and 
plumbing, amongst other things.
He made a claim in July 2022 after he noticed the pop-up plug in his bathroom sink wasnt 
working.
British Gas sent out a contractor, who replaced the plug. Mr R says the contractor at first 
tried to fit another pop-up plug, but after discovering that was the wrong size, he sourced 
and fitted a more traditional rubber plug and chain.
A few days later, Mr R contacted British Gas to tell them the sink was now leaking and 
appeared to have been damaged when the initial repairs were being carried out.
British Gas sent out another contractor to look at the damage. They then told Mr R they 
wouldnt pay to replace the sink because the damage was pre-existing. They had 
photographs taken by the first contractor which showed cracking to the sink before the repair 
work had been started.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to British Gas. And when they maintained 
their stance, Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think British Gas had acted fairly. He thought on 
balance the leak had likely been caused by the contractor who carried out the repairs on the 
plug. He asked British Gas to replace the sink and pay Mr R £100 in compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
British Gas disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the photographs provided by British Gas contractor  which show the 
dysfunctional pop-up plug still in place  it appears there was a hairline crack in the sink 
before he began the repairs.
However, I dont think that crack was causing the sink to leak at the time. I cant see why 
Mr R would call British Gas out to deal with a dysfunctional plug and not tell them that his 
sink was leaking.
Theres no dispute here that when the second contractor visited, only a few days later, the 
sink was leaking. His inspection showed that it was. But British Gas said they werent 
responsible because the sink had been damaged before the first contractor attended.
Im satisfied then that on balance its more likely than not that the leak was caused by the 
repairs carried out on the plug. This aligns with what Mr Rs wife, who was present when the 
contractor was carrying out the work, said. 
She noticed that the contractor at first tried to fit a pop-up plug that proved to be the wrong 
size  and appeared to be exerting some force to try to get it to fit.
It follows that although there may have been some damage to the sink before any of this 
happened, the sink only became no longer usable  because of the leak  as a result of the 
first visit from British Gas and the actions of their contractor during that visit.
British Gas have said it was almost inevitable the sink would be further damaged by the 
repair work because of the pre-existing defect. And so, they cant be held responsible for the 
leak or for replacing the sink now. In effect, they say either the sink was kept intact but 
without a working plug, or the plug was replaced and the damage to the sink got worse.
It would seem odd, in those circumstances, that the first contractor chose to carry on with the 
repairs without giving Mr R or his wife any indication that the sink would very likely be further 
damaged as a result. And without giving them any say in whether he carried on with the 
work given the almost inevitable (according to British Gas) result that their sink became 
unusable.
In summary, Im satisfied its likely British Gas contractor caused the damage to Mr Rs sink 
which has caused the leak and rendered the sink unusable. And so, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable that British Gas should be held responsible for the damage and required to 
replace the sink.
Putting things right
For those reasons, Im going to require British Gas to replace Mr Rs sink. I think thats the 
fairest way to resolve this complaint, even if Mr R will in effect be getting a better sink than 
he had before he called British Gas out to deal with the issue with his plug. 
Im certainly not going to ask British Gas to replace the sink with one thats already damaged 
to the same extent Mr Rs was before their visit, even if that would in effect indemnify him 
against his loss.
If Mr R has already replaced his sink, British Gas will have to pay for that, as long as it is a 
like-for-like replacement. If Mr R has upgraded his sink, British Gas should pay what it would 
have cost Mr R to replace it with a similar one.
I agree with our investigator about the compensation British Gas should pay Mr R for his 
trouble and upset. Before British Gas first visit, Mr R had a functioning and usable sink, 
albeit there were issues with the pop-up plug.
For a period of time after that, Mr R has been without that facility. Hes also had the stress 
and worry of not knowing whether his sink would be replaced. And the inconvenience of 
having the dispute with British Gas about who was liable for the damage. 
Im happy that £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the level of distress and 
inconvenience Mr R has suffered as a result of British Gas errors in this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
replace Mr Rs sink or pay for its replacement; and
pay Mr R £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman