DRN-3253366
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB Bank) has refused to refund transactions she 
made using her TSB credit card.  She thought these transactions were being made to 
Markets Trading LTD, which turned out to be a fraudulent binary options company.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mrs B is disputing four online transactions she says she thought she was making to 
Markets Trading LTD in April 2018.  She believed they were a legitimate investment 
company.  However, she says Markets Trading LTD would not allow her to withdraw her 
funds when she wanted; but requested that she make further payments.  Mrs B says she 
then suspected that she may have fallen victim to a scam.
Mrs B contacted TSB Bank about this and asked it to recover her money.  Because this did 
not happen, she raised a complaint which she referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought had a 
chargeback been raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through 
Mastercards chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mrs Bs claim.  However, he argued 
that in his view, Mrs B did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract, 
so he suggested TSB Bank refund Mrs Bs money.
Mrs B accepted the investigators findings, but TSB Bank did not.  It said Mrs B payments 
were made directly to PFA*SIYIN SHI CO., LTD and BO Trader, rather than Markets Trading 
LTD.  TSB Bank argued that this broke the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain required 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Further, based on emails Mrs B had 
forwarded, TSB Bank suggested that it was not her that had entered into an agreement with 
Markets Trading LTD  and so, this also broke the DCS chain.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by another investigator before an ombudsman reviewed 
it.  The second investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Although he agreed with the 
first investigator that Mrs B had no chargeback rights, he disagreed that she had any section 
75 rights.  He thought that Mrs Bs payments to the merchants concerned broke the DCS 
chain.
Mrs B did not accept the second investigators findings.  In short, she said she thought she 
had made her payments directly to Markets Trading LTD, and it was only when she had 
sight of her bank statement that she noticed the payments went to different merchants.  
Because of this, she feels it is unfair that she should be blamed for the break in the DCS 
agreement. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the second investigator for reasons 
I set out below.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mrs B had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I say this because she did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have also considered whether Mrs Bs payments attracted any section 75 rights.  As a 
starting point, I think it would be helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
So, the first requirement is that there is a DCS agreement falling under section 12(b) or 
12(c).  
In this case, Mrs B is the debtor, TSB Bank the creditor and Markets Trading LTD the 
supplier (as shown in Mrs Bs submissions and in TSB Banks business file submissions).  
This relationship is referred to as a DCS chain and needs to exist  unbroken  for section 
75 rights to apply.  However, Mrs Bs payments were made directly to PFA*SIYIN SHI CO., 
LTD and BO Trader, rather than the supplier, Markets Trading LTD.  This amounts to a 
break in the DCS chain  a point which TSB Bank has put forward in its submissions.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence showing that PFA*SIYIN SHI CO., LTD and BO 
Trader acted as payment processors, or that there was an agreement with them and 
Markets Trading LTD regarding payment.
Therefore, I am satisfied that TSB Bank was not liable to Mrs B under section 75 
regarding her payments to PFA*SIYIN SHI CO., LTD and BO Trader. 
I also would not have expected TSB Bank to have flagged the payments to carry out 
further checks.  I say this because they were not significantly unusual.
I note TSB Bank also suggests that based on emails Mrs B had sent it, Markets Trading 
LTD had not entered into an agreement with her.  However, because of my findings 
above, I do not need to consider this point.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman