DRN-4033345
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the time taken by Countrywide Assured Plc to pay a life 
insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat the details 
again here. In summary Mrs W submitted a claim under a joint life insurance policy when her 
ex-husband died in May 2021. The claim wasnt settled until June 2022. Countrywide 
admitted it service failings throughout the claims process and offered £200 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs W appealed. For 
simplicity I will just refer to Mrs W, although the representations have been made on her 
behalf by her solicitor. References to Countrywide also include its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having done so, and although Im sorry that my decision doesnt bring Mrs W more welcome 
news, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the law; the terms of the insurance contract; and the available 
evidence, to decide whether I think Countrywide handled Mrs Ws claim fairly.
It is apparent from the telephone transcripts that Mrs W was very concerned an 
anxious as to whether her claim would be accepted. She had written to Countrywide 
in February and April 2021 requesting that the policy be cancelled. It follows that 
premiums werent up to date and following the death of Mr W she was offering to 
make a payment but was told this wouldnt be necessary. However when the 
promised claim forms didnt arrive she called again on several occasions, also 
seeking clarity on whether she would need to make a payment. She was clearly 
concerned that her claim might be impacted. It is unfortunate that the claim forms 
didnt arrive promptly, and that Mrs W wasnt given the assurance she needed 
regarding the outstanding premiums. Countrywide did accept that that Mrs W wasnt 
provided clear information or kept fully updated and offered £200 in compensation for 
this and for insufficient updates during the claims process. In the circumstances I find 
that was fair.
The is no question that it took much longer than one would hope for this claim of this 
type to be paid. The question here though is whether Countrywides acts or 
omissions caused the delay. Mrs W sent Countrywide her claim form and documents 
which were received on 1 July 2021. This included an interim death certificate. Mrs W 
explained to Countrywide that it could take some months for the final death certificate 
to be issued by the Coroner. Countrywide, having liaised with its claims 
committee/reinsurers, explained that it would need the death certificate in order to 
process the claim. This is usual practice, and I dont find that Countrywide treated 
Mrs W unfairly by requiring it. 
Countrywide did contact the Coroners office in August 2021, but no reply was 
received until November 2021 when the Coroners office replied and said: We cannot 
supply you with the requested information at this time. An inquest has been opened 
into the death and has yet to be concluded. We are not in a position to provide you 
with any information until final determinations have been made. I find it was 
reasonable for Countrywide to accept this explanation.
Following contact from Mrs W Countrywide reached out to its claims 
committee/reinsurers in February 2022, who confirmed that a final death certificate 
was required. Nevertheless, when Mrs W advised in March 2022 that the inquest had 
been adjourned and that the coroners office confirmed that due to a backlog of 
pandemic related inquests, it could be that the formal inquest would not even be 
concluded that calendar year, Countrywide reached out again to its reinsurers. I find 
that was fair. It was only at that stage the reinsurer conceded that at a bare minimum, 
they needed confirmation there were no suspicious circumstances or third party 
involvement. Countrywide wrote to the Coroner the same day, asking if this could be 
confirmed prior to the inquest. The Coroners office responded on 21 April 2022, 
agreeing this was the case. It was then agreed that the claim should be accepted, but 
further documentation was required by Mrs W. When that was to hand, the claim was 
promptly paid. 
Countrywide went outside its usual processes to pay the claim when it did, that is 
before the inquest had taken place. Im satisfied that it treated Mrs W fairly and 
reasonably by doing so. The delays in paying the claim were not wholly of its making 
and Im not persuaded that it would have been reasonable to expect it pay the claim 
on the basis of the interim death certificate earlier than it did. I think that on occasion 
Countrywide could have replied more promptly to correspondence, but it has 
apologised for insufficient updates and offered compensation which I found was fair. I 
dont agree that Countrywide sought to avoid paying the claim or unreasonably 
sought to blame delays on the Coroners office.
Countrywide added interest to the claim when it made the payment. I find that was 
the fair thing to do. There was no obligation on it to use the courts interest rate.
Mrs W employed solicitors  her representative  who corresponded with 
Countrywide on her behalf. I understand why she did so but as the investigator 
explained our service offers a free alternative to the courts. Mrs W wasnt obliged to 
use solicitors in applying here or in corresponding with Countrywide. For this reason, 
I dont require Countrywide to pay or contribute to her legal costs. 
My final decision
Countrywide Assured Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 in compensation and I find the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Countrywide Assured Plc should pay Mrs W £200 if it hasnt already 
done so.
I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman