DRN-4371198
The complaint
Mr W complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) has 
unfairly asked him to pay a fee for a successful mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
claim.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W said hed used FTRs free checking service to see if hed been mis-
sold any PPI. He said he was told in January 2019 that PPI hadnt been found for two of his 
lenders. He said he didnt hear anything more from FTR. In April 2019 he said another 
lender Ill call B sent him a cheque for mis-sold PPI. But in October 2022, FTR asked him 
to pay a fee as the claim with B had been successful. Mr W complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr W had instructed them to act for him when he signed their letter of authority 
(LoA) in November 2018. And hed completed a PPI questionnaire in January 2019 to 
support his complaint that PPI had been mis-sold to him. They said theyd sent a letter of 
complaint (LoC) with the completed PPI questionnaire to B the same month. FTR said as 
theyd submitted his complaint to B and Mr W s claim was successful their fee was 
justified.
Mr W wasnt happy with FTRs response. He said hed used a couple of claims management 
companies, and FTR hadnt told him anything about a claim to B. He referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator said it wasnt fair for FTR to ask Mr W to pay his fee as they hadnt kept him 
updated about his claim with B or told him that PPI had been found. And there wasnt any 
evidence that showed, on balance Mr W had completed the PPI questionnaire.
FTR disagreed. They said theyd shown the PPI questionnaire had been completed by Mr 
W. And updates to Mr W were affected by guidance from Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and the impact of the pandemic. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in August 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to reach a different way to put things right for Mr Ws 
complaint than that of our investigator.
Its not in dispute that Mr W signed a LoA in November 2018 instructing FTR to carry out a 
free check to find out if hed any PPI policies. FTR feel strongly that having found PPI theyd 
been authorised by Mr W to provide their claims service, and hed agreed to their terms and 
conditions. They said that it was their submission of the LoC that meant Mr Ws complaint 
about B mis-selling him PPI was successful. But Mr W says he didnt know FTR had 
submitted a claim to B.
In reaching my decision I need to determine whether Mr W had authorised FTR to provide 
their claims service, and whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with 
him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. A lender could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request, such as an LoA (Auto-convert). But there was no requirement for them to auto-
convert information requests into complaints. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA 
was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim . But for others a letter of complaint was required with 
supporting information such as a PPI questionnaire. Any claim received after the 29 August 
2019 deadline wouldnt be accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional 
circumstances for doing so.
I can see from FTRs records that Mr W signed a LoA in November 2018. This would be    
Mr Ws instruction for FTR to check whether hed any PPI. The checking service would have 
been done by FTR, free of charge. The terms and conditions say:
"FTR will carry out a free PPI check. Once PPI has been identified we will notify you and 
upon your instructions will submit your complaint to the lender. If the claim is successful, our 
fee, as per these Terms and Conditions, will apply."
And the terms and conditions go on to give examples of the fees that FTR would charge 
20% plus VAT.
FTRs records show that B confirmed at the end of December 2018, that Mr W had PPI 
with them for account ending *6290. So, Im satisfied B accepted FTR were representing 
Mr W. FTR said their process on PPI being found would be to email and text message their 
customer to tell them that PPI had been found. The message(s) would also include a link 
that would take their customer to their website to complete the PPI questionnaire.
I can see from FTRs records that in January 2019 having been told Mr W had PPI that they 
added his details to their automated process for the notification messages to be sent. On the 
same day (three hours later) FTRs records show that the PPI questionnaire was completed 
and returned by Mr W.
As the PPI questionnaire provided supporting information and was completed online a 
signature wasnt required for the PPI questionnaire to be accepted by the lender. I can see 
the PPI questionnaire provided details about Mr Ws employment, the purpose of the loan  
buying a car, and other personal details. And Mr W has said FTR had been in touch with him 
around this time about his other lenders. So, on balance, I think FTR notified Mr W hed PPI 
and by returning the completed PPI questionnaire Mr W instructed FTR to submit his claim 
to B.
From FTRs records I can see later in January 2019 FTR submitted a LoC, with the 
completed PPI questionnaire and LoA to B. And I can see that B acknowledged receipt of 
the LoC towards the end of the same month. In their acknowledgement they advised FTR 
that they would contact Mr W themselves to discuss his PPI complaint. And that they would 
let FTR know their decision before the end of March 2019. So, Im satisfied that FTR 
submitted Mr Ws claim.
The agreement Mr W had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This meant FTR would 
charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for 
free. When a claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
"1.8 You will inform FTR promptly of any relevant matters affecting the claim(s), such as 
direct contact from the Company."
I can see B paid Mr W a compensation payment for his mis-sold PPI for account *6290 at 
the end of April 2019. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr W notified FTR that his claim 
had been resolved. And as Mr Ws claim was successful, Im satisfied that FTRs fee for his 
successful claim is justified.
The Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) provides guidance to claims 
management companies (CMC) like FTR. Ive considered the relevant guidance.
CMCOB 6.1.5R says:
A firm must notify the customer of: (b) any material development in the progress of the 
customers claim; 
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 says:
If, during the period to which the report relates, the firm has not sent any notifications to the 
customer under CMCOB 6.1.5R, the update should indicate why, to the best of the firms 
knowledge, there have been no material developments.
The guidance goes on to say that updates should continue to be given until the claim is 
finally determined or settled or is withdrawn or discontinued. Bs acknowledgement after 
FTR submitted Mr Ws claim said theyd send a final decision to them before the end of 
March 2019. FTRs records show they didnt ask B for any update until July 2019. And I 
cant see that FTR took any action to follow up this request when they didnt get a response 
form B. It wasnt until January 2021 that FTR sent a letter to Mr W asking for a copy of his 
final response letter from B, nearly two years after Mr Ws claim with B had been 
resolved. And in March 2021 FTR asked Mr W to sign another LoA, and any 
correspondence Mr W had from B. I know Mr W said he didnt receive these letters, but I 
can see theyre addressed to the same address we have on record for Mr W. So I cant say 
the letters werent sent by FTR.
But I havent seen any evidence that FTR updated Mr W or provided any further detail about 
his claim until they sent him an invoice asking him to pay their fee in October 2022. After    
Mr W received his redress from B I can see he entered into an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA). If Mr W had been charged by FTR at this time I think this would have 
needed to be considered under the IVA. But it wasnt. Mr W has said his IVA has now 
ended, but the poor customer service provided by FTR I think has added to his financial 
concerns. And by only being told in October 2022, more than three years after hed received 
the redress that he now owed FTR around £450 has caused Mr W distress and 
inconvenience.While FTRs fee is justified I expect them to work with Mr W in seeking repayment of this that 
doesnt place an unreasonable financial burden on him. And I intend to ask FTR to pay Mr W 
£250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor customer 
service.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr W didnt dispute hed agreed to FTR carrying out a free check to see whether hed any 
PPI. And when he received the compensation from his  lender in April 2019 he thought this 
was because the deadline for such claims, August 2019 was approaching. He said that it 
wasnt fair that FTR should ask him to pay a fee several years later.
FTR havent asked for any further representations to be considered.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration and in my provisional decision I agree with him that the 
customer service provided by FTR was poor as theyd failed to keep him informed about his 
PPI claim as guided to within CMCOB. But under the terms and conditions of the agreement 
Mr W had with FTR I dont think they acted unfairly in asking Mr W to pay their fee as his PPI 
claim that theyd submitted on his behalf was successful.
So having considered the responses I havent seen anything to change the decision I 
reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track 
Reclaim to pay Mr W £250 for distress and inconvenience caused by their poor customer 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman