DRN-4041929
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS) gave an 
unsuitable recommendation to invest part of his portfolio into the Wood Income Focus Fund 
(WIFF) and failed in its duty of care.
What happened
Following a meeting in February 2019, in March 2019 HLAS provided investment advice to 
Mr and Mrs M. This decision concerns Mr M only. 
HLAS recommended disposing of an existing stocks and shares ISA portfolio of £454,532 
held with a third party and investing the proceeds into a diverse portfolio of managed 
investment funds, of which 10.5% was in the WIFF. Upon investment, Mr M moved to an 
execution only service with Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Service (HLAM). 
When the WIFF was removed from the Wealth 50 list, Mr M received a notification. Mr M 
sold his holdings in WIFF for a loss in June 2019.
Mr M maintains that it was unsuitable to recommend investment in WIFF and HLAS failed in 
its duty of care. Mr M seeks compensation for his losses.
HLAS say that the recommendation to move to a portfolio of managed investment funds was 
in line with Mr Ms objectives. HLAS did not provide ongoing advice and Mr M made the 
decision to sell his WIFF holdings. Mr M was notified of the decision to remove WIFF from 
the Wealth 50 (a best buy list of investment funds published by HLAM) following volatility 
after the suspension of another Woodford fund in June 2019.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He thought HLASs recommendation was in 
line with Mr Ms objectives, moving to exposure to managed equities of around 75%. Mr Ms 
exposure to WIFF, amounting to 10% of the portfolio, did not expose him to more risk than 
he wanted to take. HLAS did not provide any advice in June 2019 and Mr Ms decision to sell 
WIFF holdings wasnt prompted by HLAS but by information in third party sources.
Mr M does not agree. He maintains that risk tolerance is not relevant when considering the 
recommendation to include WIFF in the portfolio, the removal of the WIFF from the Wealth 
List was tardy, the decision to replace the fund manager and the decision by the new 
manager to replace the holdings in WIFF was indicative of the lack of suitability of the 
recommendation. Mr M also pointed to the temporary suspension of the fund in October 
2019. 
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to explain at the outset that HLAS were responsible for the initial advice to 
invest in WIFF. Once the investment was made, HLAS were not responsible for the 
investment decisions made by Mr M. Mr M elected to hold the investment on an execution 
only basis.
Ive considered Mr Ms circumstances at the time advice was sought. Mr M had substantial 
funds in a stock and shares ISA and was looking to move to a diverse portfolio of collective 
investments, with the aim of achieving an income and some capital growth to support his 
retirement. Mr M described himself as advanced in his knowledge and experience of 
financial matters and was prepared to take more risk to gain higher returns, agreeing that his 
risk tolerance fell at 5 out of scale of 7, indicating an above average risk tolerance towards 
the higher end. Mr M was looking to invest for the longer term. Its clear from the fact find 
questionnaire and suitability report that Mr M had capacity to withstand losses. The overall 
recommendation moved Mr Ms investments to a portfolio with 75-85% of funds in managed 
equities, in line with his objectives. On balance, I am persuaded that it is more likely than not 
that the recommendation was suitable for Mr Ms needs taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances, attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time.
Ive also considered that the WIFF formed only 10.5% of the overall recommended portfolio. 
The aim of the fund was to provide a high level of income with capital growth, which was in 
line with Mr Ms objectives. Im not persuaded 10.5% was an unsuitably large exposure to 
one fund given Mr Ms overall portfolio. And Ive also taken into account that within the WIFF 
there was a breadth of investment, providing diversification and no guarantees as to 
performance were made. The level of risk exposure was within Mr Ms tolerance and its 
important to highlight that the WIFF was not exposed to the same liquidity issues that arose 
with another Woodford fund. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to discount the fact 
that Mr M was prepared to take more risk to secure higher returns. 
Ive noted the points raised by Mr M but it is not fair and reasonable to make an assessment 
with the benefit of hindsight. The matters relied upon by Mr M, such as the suspension of 
WIFF in October 2019 and the later change in fund manager, took place several months 
after the advice to invest in WIFF was provided and after his decision to sell. Overall, Im not 
persuaded that HLAS did anything wrong in recommending investment of 10.5% of the 
overall holdings into WIFF.
It is common ground that HLAS did not provide advice to sell the WIFF holdings in June 
2019. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms disappointment about the losses he sustained, ultimately, it 
was his decision to sell.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman