DRN-3878364
The complaint
Mr L says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly declined his claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in relation to two transactions made in 2006 and 
2007 respectively.
What happened
In 2006, Mr L says he entered into a contract (Contract 1) with a company I shall refer to as 
ILG, to provide membership to a discount holiday club. Mr L says he was also told he would 
be entered into a cashback scheme and his existing timeshare products would be taken 
over. Mr L says this was funded in part, by his Nationwide credit card. Mr L says he knows 
he used this card as it was the only one he used while abroad (the sale took place in Spain). 
Mr L says he was told at this meeting that there would be no legal or administrative fees 
associated with trading in his existing timeshare products. 
In March 2007, Mr L says he was invited to the UK office and told that the information he had 
been given in Spain was incorrect. And if he wanted to use the system fully, he would need 
to trade in his existing timeshare products and pay the associated legal fees. So, he entered 
a second contract (Contract 2) with ILG. Mr L says despite the welcome letter from ILG 
confirming he now had a three-year membership, this payment was purely for legal fees 
associated with the facilitation of Contract 1 and that both contracts were rolled into one. 
Mr L says this was funded in part by his Nationwide credit card. 
Mr L communicated with ILG in the years that followed, complaining about the lack of 
services and benefits received, including the lack of action in transferring over his existing 
timeshare products and the promised cashback. 
In 2011, ILG went into administration without Mr L receiving the proceeds from the cashback 
scheme and with only one of his timeshare products having been transferred. 
In 2013, Mr L raised a section 75 claim with Nationwide on the grounds of both 
misrepresentation and breach of contract by ILG. There appears to have been a 
miscommunication between Mr L and Nationwide as the claim was not investigated until 
2015. Nationwide reviewed the claim again in 2016, issuing its final response. 
Nationwides overall decision was to decline the claim. It didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence that it had funded either transaction. So, it said the protections Mr L was seeking to 
rely on under section 75 of the CCA, did not apply.
Unhappy with Nationwides investigation into his claim, Mr L referred a complaint to our 
service. He set out that ILG had misrepresented the services it offered as the discounts were 
less than he could have obtained online without a membership. He alleges he was told in 
2006 that there would be no legal or administrative fees associated with transferring over his 
existing timeshares, but he was then told in 2007 that this was incorrect, and he must make 
a further payment in order to start this process (Contract 2). ILG went into administration in 
2011, and by that time, only one of Mr Ls timeshare products had been transferred, with no 
compensation being paid. In addition, Mr L did not receive any proceeds from the cashback 
scheme he paid to enter. 
Nationwide reiterated that it didnt think sufficient evidence had been provided to show that it 
funded either transaction. So, it did not think it needed to do anything further in response to 
Mr Ls claims. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. In 
his first assessment, the investigator concluded Mr Ls testimony that he had used his 
Nationwide credit card to make the purchase in 2006 was plausible. He also thought there 
was sufficient documentary evidence to support Mr L having used his Nationwide credit card 
for Contract 2. So, he thought Nationwide should have looked into Mr Ls claims relating to 
both purchases.
In looking at Mr Ls allegations against ILG, he thought there was evidence that it had 
misrepresented the product/services and breached its contract with Mr L when it went into 
administration. Mr L agreed with the investigators assessment. 
In response, Nationwide said any claims Mr L sought to bring for misrepresentation and/or 
breach of contract were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It said Contract 1 
was taken in May 2006, so Mr L had until May 2012 to bring his claim, as he did not do that 
until 2013, it thinks he is too late. For Contract 2 taken out in March 2007, it said Mr L had 
until March 2013 to bring his claim, but he did not do so until later that year. It also thought 
Mr L would have known something had gone wrong in 2008/2009 when he was 
communicating with ILG.
Our investigator considered Nationwides response and amended his proposed outcome to 
the complaint. He agreed that Mr Ls claims for misrepresentation had likely been made too 
late for both contracts. But he set out that the time limit that applies for breach of contract 
claims runs from the point of the alleged breach, which he deemed to be 2011 when ILG 
entered administration. So, he thought Mr L was in time to claim for breach of contract under 
section 75 of the CCA and that Nationwide should have upheld this claim. Mr L agreed with 
the investigators revised assessment. 
Nationwide disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 and set out that I intended to reach the 
following conclusions:
There was insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr L used his Nationwide credit card 
to fund Contract 1. So, I did not think Nationwide could be held liable for any losses 
that flowed from the suppliers alleged actions in 2006. I thought Nationwide acted 
fairly in declining this part of Mr Ls claim. 
There was sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr L used his Nationwide credit card 
to fund Contract 2. So, I thought Nationwide should have considered this part of 
Mr Ls claim. 
There were multiple parties involved in the provision of Mr Ls membership, 
cashback, and associated benefits. The evidence provided suggests ILGs role was 
limited to marketing and selling the membership Mr L purchased. It was not 
responsible for the discount holiday membership itself (that was provided by a 
company I referred to as DWVC) or the payment of cashback (provided by a 
company I referred to as CB). As Mr L paid ILG rather than the other companies involved in his membership, his 
claim is limited to the actions or omissions of ILG. With this in mind, I did not think it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for the failure to pay 
cashback (as this sits with CB). 
Mr L was entitled to bring a claim for misrepresentation against ILG (limited to the 
scope of his contract with ILG) but I thought Nationwide acted fairly in seeking to rely 
on the LA in defending this claim in relation to Contract 2. 
Mr L has not been able to show he has a valid claim for breach of contract against 
ILG. His alleged breaches relate to the cashback scheme for which I concluded ILG 
was not responsible (beyond facilitating his joining of the scheme) and for not 
transferring his existing timeshare product which is not detailed as a service ILG 
would provide in the contractual documents I had seen. 
Nationwide confirmed it had received my provisional decision and had no further comments 
or evidence to add. 
Mr L confirmed he had received my provisional decision, disagreed with my conclusions and 
provided documents he wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision. 
As both parties have received and responded to my provisional decision, it is now 
appropriate for me to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I also have to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr L, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr L is seeking to rely on the protections afforded 
under s.75 of the CCA. This states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
There are several key elements to a transaction that must be present in order to hold a 
lender liable under s.75. It is not an automatic right to a refund, and it is restricted to certain 
parties involved in the transaction. Without one or all of these elements, the lender may not 
be responsible for the claim. In this case, Nationwide disputes both that it is the creditor in the transactions as it doesnt 
consider there to be sufficient evidence that its credit card was used, and it disagrees that 
there is a supplier contract for the second transaction. 
For ease, I will deal with each transaction in turn. 
Contract 1 
I set out in my provisional decision that there was insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr L 
used his Nationwide credit card to fund the purchase of Contract 1 in 2006. Having reviewed 
the case afresh and as neither party has provided any new information or evidence on this 
point, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusion on this point. 
Nationwide does not hold records dating back to May 2006 to show that Mr L used its credit 
card to pay for all or part of the purchase price for Contract 1. Similarly, Mr L no longer holds 
documentation that confirms he used his Nationwide card for Contract 1. 
While I do not doubt Mr L has been truthful in his submission that he only used his 
Nationwide credit card for transactions abroad, this is not enough to show that Nationwide 
was the creditor in this transaction. 
Without supporting documentary evidence, I do not consider it would be fair in this case to 
hold Nationwide responsible for any claims relating to the 2006 transaction and subsequent 
contract with ILG. So, I do not uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint and I am not going to ask 
Nationwide to do anything further when it comes to the 2006 transaction. 
The information Ive been provided with, shows a cashback scheme formed part of Contract 
1. As I have concluded that there is insufficient evidence to show Nationwide can be held 
liable for this transaction, it would not be appropriate to direct Nationwide to compensate 
Mr L for any alleged breach of contract relating to that cashback scheme.
Contract 2 
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought there was sufficient evidence to show Mr L 
used his Nationwide credit card to part-fund the 2007 transaction. Having reviewed the case 
again and in the absence of any new information or comments from the parties, I see no 
reason to depart from this conclusion. 
Mr L has been able to provide documentary evidence that shows his full Nationwide credit 
number and authorisation number on a receipt from the time of sale. So, I am satisfied 
Nationwide was the creditor in this transaction and it should have considered his claim 
further. However, establishing Nationwide part-funded this transaction is only one of the 
elements needed to establish a valid claim. Nationwide also disputed that there was a 
contract for this transaction
It is clear from the 2007 paperwork, most of which is headed by ILG markers, and the 
transaction note, that Mr L contracted with ILG for a service. So, I am satisfied that we have 
both sufficient evidence that Nationwide was the creditor in this transaction and that Mr L 
had a supplier contract with ILG. So, I am of the opinion that a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement exists for Contract 2 and Nationwide should have considered this part of Mr Ls 
claim. 
However, this does not mean Mr Ls complaint should be automatically upheld. It is now 
important to determine what services ILG contracted with Mr L to provide and whether Mr L 
has been able to evidence that it failed to do so, thereby breaching its contract with him.  Breach of contract claim
Mr L says Contract 2 relates solely to legal and administrative fees associated with 
transferring his existing timeshare products. But the paperwork from the time does not reflect 
this. 
While Mr L has said the documentation is on ILG headed paper and signatures were 
witnessed for and on behalf of ILG, it is important to consider the content of the 
documentation to establish the contractual roles of the various parties involved in the product 
Mr L purchased. 
ILG is listed on the contractual paperwork as being an authorised marketer, selling 
memberships to DWVCs holiday club. It also carried out the administrative tasks necessary 
to enable Mr L to join a cashback scheme with CB. The paperwork does not confirm that ILG 
undertook to transfer Mr Ls existing timeshare products, that it would provide the cashback 
or that it operated the discount holiday club itself. 
In contrast, I can see documentation confirming that a separate company was responsible 
for the potential and ultimate pay out from the cashback scheme (CB) and that DWVC ran 
the discount holiday club. And while I can see a transfer form, I cant see anything that 
supports Mr L paid ILG to transfer his existing timeshares or what Mr L would receive in 
return should one of his timeshares be successfully transferred. 
Mr L has provided cashback certificates which list ILG as the supplier, but these certificates 
do not confirm that ILG was responsible for the payment of cashback at the end of the term. 
The information I have reviewed suggests ILG delivered both services it contracted with Mr L 
to provide. He received documentation confirming he was a member of DWVC, and a 
cashback certificate was issued, entering Mr L into CBs scheme. I am not persuaded there 
is sufficient evidence to show Mr L contracted with ILG to dispose of his timeshares or that it
breached its contract with him. It follows therefore, that I do not think ILG entering
administration in 2011 amounted to a breach of contract from which Mr L suffered a loss. 
Any problems Mr L had accessing or using the holiday membership would be the 
responsibility of DWVC and any concerns regarding non-payment of cashback would sit with 
CB. And as Mr L did not pay either one of these companies directly using his Nationwide 
card, I am not persuaded there is the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place 
that would enable Mr L to hold Nationwide responsible for these concerns.
Misrepresentation claim 
Mr L has also complained that the level of discount available via the DWVC membership 
was misrepresented by ILG as it was no greater than what he could find online. As ILG sold 
the discounted travel membership, it could be held responsible if it misrepresented what it 
was selling. 
However, if Nationwide could show the misrepresentation claim was brought outside of the 
time limits set in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
claim (as it did in response to our investigators first assessment). I set out in my provisional decision that if Mr L wished to bring a claim for misrepresentation, 
he had a period of six years in which to do so, with time running from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.1 
In Mr Ls case, the date on which the cause of action accrued is the point in time that 
everything needed to make a legal claim occurred. I think that was the date he entered into 
the agreement to buy the membership, March 2007. It was at this time that he entered into 
an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of ILG. He says had the 
misrepresentations not been made, he wouldnt have entered into the agreement. And it was 
on that day that Mr L suffered a loss, as he used his Nationwide credit card to part-fund the 
purchase. 
It follows therefore that Mr L had six years from March 2007 to bring a claim for 
misrepresentation. As he did not do this, I think Nationwide acted fairly in turning down his 
misrepresentation claim in relation to Contract 2. I should make it clear I am not deciding if 
any right Mr L may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA  that is a matter for 
the courts. In this decision, I am considering if Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably in 
turning down Mr Ls claims. 
Overall, I do not think Nationwides ultimate decision to decline Mr Ls claim was unfair. So I 
will not be recommending it does anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman
1 A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this 
type of claim is an action founded on tort covered in section 2 LA or an action brought for a sum 
recoverable by statute within section 9 LA. Under both those provisions, a claimant has a period of six 
years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 