DRN-3638778
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £3,700 she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs R authorised the disputed payments she made to Moonpay 
using her HSBC credit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from her crypto wallet). The payments were requested by her using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mrs R has lost over £3,700 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over several smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character to have been spent on a credit card, 
such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might 
have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
I appreciate that she made a larger payment of £1,594.94 on 31 March 2021. However, 
by this point, Mrs R had already made a payment to the crypto platform around a month 
before. So, by the time she came to make the larger payment, Moonpay was already 
established on her account as an existing payee that she had paid before. In any event, 
the amount is still not significant enough in and of itself to have appeared suspicious, so I 
dont consider HSBC had any obligation to intervene here.
There also wasnt any reason for HSBC to have suspected fraud by virtue of the 
merchant appearing to be suspicious, as the payments were sent to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platform. So, I dont think there was any reason for the 
payments to be automatically blocked on this basis either. I also understand that Mrs R 
was in a vulnerable state at the time, but I cant see that HSBC would have been aware 
of this, or that they should have otherwise blocked the payments as a result. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mrs R reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mrs R used her 
card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt be able to make a successful 
chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company she paid had provided 
the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think 
HSBC were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mrs R either.
Similarly, a Section 75 claim would also fail under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as she 
wouldnt have a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against Moonpay, 
given she received the cryptocurrency she paid for. There would also be no debtor
creditor-supplier link as required by the Act, as Mrs R did not pay the supplier (i.e. the 
fraudulent broker) directly. So, there would have been no basis for a Section 75 claim to 
have been pursued. 
Finally, HSBC have offered £50 compensation in recognition of the problems and delays 
Mrs R faced in contacting its disputes team. I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating, but Im satisfied this represents fair compensation and is a proportionate 
reflection of the trouble and upset this likely caused.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that HSBC can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman