DRN-2790191
The complaint
Mr O complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have unfairly handled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
Mr O made a separate complaint about QICs handling of his claim up to 2 June 2020. This 
complaint looks at QICs handling of the claim up to the date of this decision.   
What happened
Mr Os vehicle was involved in an incident in October 2019. His car had been hit while 
parked. The police attended the scene. Mr O made a claim on his motor insurance policy 
with QIC.
Mr O was unhappy with QICs management of the claims process. He felt they werent doing 
enough to find the third-party drivers insurance details. He thought QIC hadnt tried to 
access the police report, even though hed given them his police incident reference number. 
So he complained to QIC.
While waiting for QIC to respond, Mr O brought his first complaint to this service in 
December 2019. QIC issued their final response letter in January 2020. But their response 
simply told him that they were still conducting their investigations. 
The ombudsman who looked at the first complaint upheld it in October 2020. He felt that QIC 
hadnt managed the claim as well as we would expect. So he asked them to pay Mr O £250 
compensation for the poor service. He also said that if Mr O felt that QIC continued to 
manage his claim badly he would be able to raise a new complaint. 
In September 2020 Mr O brought a second complaint about QICs claim handling. Hed 
complained to them again on 2 June 2020. But theyd failed to provide a final response 
letter.
In March 2021 our investigator upheld his second complaint about QIC. He explained his 
view covered the period from January 2020, when the final response letter for the first 
complaint was written, to 28 July 2020, the latest date at which the final response letter 
shouldve been written. To put things right, he recommended that QIC paid £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigator. He felt the compensation wasnt enough. He also felt 
his claims management complaint should be fully resolved through his second complaint, 
rather than going through another one.
So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC have agreed that I can consider events which took place from January 2020 up to the 
date of this decision.
Mr O has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having considered the evidence, Im going to uphold the complaint. But unfortunately I think 
Mr O will still be disappointed. 
This claims handling complaint hinges on whether the third-party driver who hit Mr Os car 
was insured or not at the time of the accident. Mr O thinks they were. But QIC dont agree. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Os vehicle was involved in an incident that wasnt his fault. 
Usually, when there is an accident between two parties, both parties are insured as required 
by law. And where one party is at fault their insurer will usually settle the claim for both 
parties. 
From what Ive seen, both the police and QIC have confused matters by mentioning that the 
third-party mayve had insurance. 
QIC said theyre unsure why an email was sent to [insurers name] in January 2020 
requesting payment and their stance on liability when a previously completed [check on the 
Motor Insurance Database] (31/10/2019) had shown the vehicle to be uninsured at the time 
of the incident as well as confirmation directly from [insurers name] that they had no live 
policy. QIC told Mr O that the lack of entry on the Motor Insurance Database meant they 
couldnt progress his claim any further. 
The police sent Mr O an e-mail on 23 February 2021 stating that they had recorded 
insurance details. But that record showed a company name that doesnt exist. 
Despite these two e-mails, Ive seen no evidence at all that the third-party had insurance. So 
there was no insurer to pay Mr Os claim other than his own. So QIC have incurred costs 
that they shouldnt have done because the third-party was uninsured. I dont think its unfair 
for QIC to try and recoup those costs, or Mr Os uninsured losses (his excess) and to do that 
the claim remains open.
I acknowledge that QIC couldve tried to obtain the police report earlier in the claims 
process. And I can see that Mr O has placed great importance on this. But QIC have said 
that it: would have no bearing on the outcome as the search completed using the [Motor 
Insurance Database checking] service would have provided the same results to the police.
After QIC had received the police report, they made further enquiries with the police directly. 
They said that the police told them that theyd intended to prosecute the third-party for 
driving without insurance. But that this didnt happen as the time for them to be able to do 
this had passed, partly due to the pandemic. They said that the police had been able to 
provide further information which allowed them to locate an insurance broker. And that when 
they contacted that broker theyd been told that this was a case of mistaken identity. And 
that theyd no record of the third-party being insured with them. The insurance broker said 
theyd notified the police of this. 
QIC said theyd told Mr O about their ongoing investigations. But had made him aware that 
as it stands the claim is against his own policy and that this position is unlikely to change.
Mr O recently told us that the police had been in contact to tell him that further information about the third-party was available. So our investigator spoke with QIC on 28 July 2021 to 
get an update on the claim. They noted that the claim hasnt been closed yet as they were 
still trying to get information. They confirmed that as it stands the third-party was uninsured 
at the time of the incident and the details for the driver on the police report have also shown 
no insurance cover. They noted that the polices intention to prosecute the third-party for 
driving without insurance shows that the police had no evidence of insurance. 
Without an insurer to claim costs back from, QIC settled the claim as a non-fault claim with 
costs incurred. This meant that Mr O would need to declare the claim to future insurers. His 
premiums would be affected. The claim also affected Mr Os No Claim Discount. QIC waived 
the policy excess as a gesture of goodwill.
I acknowledge that Mr O is concerned that QIC have told him theyll close his claim without 
making a recovery from the third-party. Unfortunately, theres no other reasonable action for 
them to take at this point. Theyve been unable to identify any valid insurance cover for the 
third-party. Theyve checked the third-partys vehicle registration number with the Motor 
Insurance Database. And followed up about a possible insurance broker. But this didnt 
locate a valid insurance policy at the time of the accident. QIC said: the result has come 
back showing that the third-partys vehicle did not hold valid insurance at the time of the 
accident. 
Theyve also reviewed the police report and followed up directly with the police. But have 
noted that the report doesnt provide any details of an insurer or any other evidence that 
would help them to find out if valid insurance was held by the third-party at the time of the 
incident. 
Taking all of the information Ive seen into account, Im persuaded that theres no third-party 
insurer. This means theres no insurer to claim costs back from. 
I acknowledge that QIC didnt communicate well with Mr O. They appeared not to be chasing 
the police report despite the fact that Mr O reasonably thought it was important. They sent 
him a confusing e-mail about the third-partys insurer, even though they knew there wasnt 
one. So I can see why Mr O felt he had to investigate his claim himself. 
But I dont think QIC have  in the end  made the wrong decision on the handling of the 
claim. Theyve taken the actions I would expect them to take where the third-party isnt 
insured. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr O. But I cant find any errors in how QIC has 
managed his claim. 
However, its completely clear that QIC couldve done more to progress the claim. It couldve 
applied for a copy of the police report much sooner. And it shouldve kept Mr O much better 
informed throughout the claims process. 
Mr O has provided a detailed explanation of the compensation hed like to receive for QICs 
poor claims handling. I can see how hard hes worked to try to progress his claim. I can 
imagine its been a stressful and frustrating time for him. But, from the information Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that QICs actions warrant the amount of compensation hes asking for.
In the end, its extremely bad luck that the third-party who hit his car wasnt insured. But I 
cant hold QIC responsible for that. Theyve not made any errors in the way theyve handled 
the claim. And its correct that the only action they can now take is to close the claim.
QIC have said theyve had several conversations with Mr O explaining the current situation. But I would also expect them to update him if any new information comes to light, or when 
the claim is closed.
Looking at the quality of communication and claims management QIC provided, Im 
persuaded that it fell short of the service Mr O couldve expected. Overall, although Im 
aware of Mr Os frustration and strength of feeling, I dont think I can reasonably require QIC 
to pay the compensation hes set out. Taking everything into account, I agree with our 
investigator that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for the level of service Mr O has 
received since January 2020.
Putting things right
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr O £250 for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr O £250 for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman