DRN-3042462
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr F says that his accounts at Revolut and a different financial business were taken over by 
fraudsters. Two payments totalling £1,750 were transferred to Revolut from his account at 
that other business. And these were then transferred to a third party he didnt recognise. 
There were other credits that he didnt recognise too.
Revolut said that it wouldnt be refunding his money. It explained to this service that a new 
device was registered to Mr Fs account at that time. This would have required access to his 
email and photo identification to do so.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F told her that he did 
have a suspicious call from someone claiming to be from the other financial business. But 
that he didnt download anything or share any of his security details. He hadnt lost any other 
information including his bank cards or identification. She said that the full details needed to 
log into Mr Fs Revolut account with a new device would be his phone number and 
passcode, a code sent to his email account and a photo of him. Mr F was clear he hadnt 
provided all these to anyone else, responded to a phishing text or been scammed. There 
was no explanation why a fraudster would have needed to use his Revolut account if that 
person had managed to gain access to the other bank account. She didnt think it most likely 
that his Revolut account was used without his knowledge. And so, she concluded that these 
payments were authorised.
Mr F didnt agree. He said that he had £1,750 stolen and wasnt getting this back. He was 
being told he authorised the payments, but he didnt do so. He accepted the only evidence 
he had was of the money leaving his account. And he assumed it was transferred between 
his bank accounts to avoid suspicion. He said that he didnt know how to prove that this 
wasnt him. He didnt know how his information was compromised and what he was 
supposed to do to. He wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised Mr F wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the security information used to 
make these payments?
- Did Mr F authorise the payments on the account? 
- Did Revolut act reasonably?
Ive seen the evidence that supports the payments from Mr Fs account, and Im satisfied 
that these were authenticated using his details. The issue is whether he authorised the 
payments or not.
Mr F is reasonably required by Revolut to keep his security information safe. He says he did 
this despite a suspicious call he received that day. And he is clear he didnt respond to any 
phishing attempt  something Revolut had thought might be a possibility - or allow access to 
any device by downloading software. Hes not identified anyone that could have been in a 
position to access his account either.
So, to find these payments werent authorised Id need to think that an unknown third party 
was able to find out his passcode, intercept his email account and also have a photo of him. 
And although Im not looking directly at what happened at the other financial business, to 
accept his version of events, Id also need to think that someone was able to access that 
account too. And having done so would want to send money from his account there before 
sending it on again. Even though one of more of these things might be possible I need to 
consider them all together And I think that without an identified point of compromise this 
explanation isnt the most likely one. I make that finding taking into account that a new 
device was registered at around this time and that other payments were credited to his 
account from unknown third parties that were reported as fraudulently obtained too.
Im not persuaded that these disputed payments from his account were unauthorised. I dont 
see that Revolut made a mistake or acted unreasonably in processing them. And it blocked 
his account after he contacted it preventing further payments out. So, I wont be asking it to 
do anything further. I appreciate what is at stake for Mr F and that he will be very 
disappointed with my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman