DRN-3549003
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
unreasonably refused to pay his claim under his pet policy. As a result, it also imposed a 
retrospective exclusion on his policy, which Mr S didnt think was fair.  
What happened
Mr S having been insured elsewhere before, took out this pet policy with Casualty to start on 
15 December 2020 which provided him with £4,000 vet fees cover per year.
On 25 June 2021, Mr S dog became very ill with gastroenteritis, so he brought him to vet for 
treatment. The gastroenteritis reoccurred on 17 July 2021 and Mr S brought his dog to vet 
again for treatment. Mr S then made claim to Casualty for the vet fees associated with these 
treatment costs. On reviewing his dogs vet history, Casualty said as he had suffered bouts 
of sickness before the start of the policy, it was classed as a pre-existing condition. And 
because he didnt tell it about any of this, it would now put a retrospective excluded for all 
digestive disorders from the start of his policy.
Mr S didnt think this was reasonable, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
was of the view that his claim did concern a pre-existing condition but she didnt think it was 
fair of Casualty to impose the retrospective exclusion as it hadnt asked Mr S sufficiently 
detailed questions in order for it to do this.
Whilst Casualty agreed with the investigators view Mr S didnt, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint in part but along the same lines as the 
investigator. I do appreciate and understand that Mr S will be very disappointed. However, Ill 
now explain why. 
Insurers are fully entitled to decide what risks they wish to provide cover for and what risks 
they dont want to provide any cover for. And I have no authority to change this as this 
service isnt the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. In the pet insurance industry, 
most pet insurers do not wish to provide any cover for any reoccurrence of condition that 
might have happened before the policy started, and Casualtys policy is no different. So, I 
dont find excluding reoccurrences of any pre-existing condition is an unusual or significant 
limitation of cover either. Its very standard industry practice.
 
My role in assessing Mr S complaint is to assess what if anything Casualty did wrong having 
regard to the terms and conditions of the policy which Mr S chose himself. This is because 
pet policies are sold on an unadvised basis meaning Casualty did not give him any advice 
on which type of policy would suit his needs. That was Mr S decision alone to make based 
on the information given to him about the levels of cover on offer.
In the policy document it explains What is insured being Treatment carried out by a Vet for 
treating an Illness or Accidental Injury suffered by Your Pet whilst insured with Us. And 
underneath that it explains What is not insured which is detailed as follows:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition.
The policy also defines pre-existing condition as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Its clear in the vet history that Mr S dog did suffer previous bouts of gastroenteritis before 
this policy started on 15 December 2020, as the vet history details on 20 September 2015 
that his dog had vomiting and diarrhoea which was treated with various medications over a 
two-day period. 
Further on 21 December 2018, Mr S dog again was treated and medicated again for 
vomiting and diarrhoea over a two-day period. This reoccurred on 13 April 2019 where Mr S 
dog was treated again and given medication. 
And lastly on 25 June 2021, Mr S dog was reported to have vomited 15 times in a few 
hours. And it is this instance which is the cause of Mr S complaint. That episode was again 
treated over a two-day period. And sadly, it reoccurred on 17 July 2021 and the vet put on 
the vet history the following:
History  acute onset vomiting this am and brought back all breakfast. O reports just 
like last time, has been inside the past few days and doesnt really eat FBs. NAD on 
exam, temp OK. Disc if worsens then will admit for x-rays however if sickness seems 
more chronic then given only a few weeks ago, discussed scoping, ulcers etc. re-see 
monday. Adv light diet over the weekend. 
I appreciate Mr S believes his dog merely suffered a bacterial or viral infection, so how can 
this be classed as a pre-existing condition. He believes it was merely a sickness bug. 
However, the definition of pre-existing condition is very clear in this policy which refuses 
cover for any condition which happened before. And the evidence is clear in the vet history 
that Mr S dog had severe bouts of diarrhoea and vomiting before, which required prescribed 
medications too. Further given it occurred again in July 2021, his vet was thinking along the 
lines that it was possibly a condition that might be more chronic. That also doesnt support 
Mr S thoughts that his dog was merely suffering a sickness bug. In view of the evidence of 
the vet history of Mr S dog, I dont consider Casualty did anything wrong in refusing to pay 
Mr S claim. Its actions properly followed the terms and conditions of the policy.
However, Im not so convinced Casualty imposed the retrospective exclusion fairly. So, I am 
pleased to see that it accepted the investigators view on the matter too. 
Casualty said Mr S should have told it about any pre-existing conditions to include these 
several episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea. And because he didnt disclose this, it was 
entitled to impose a retrospective exclusion on his policy for all digestive disorders.But in order for Mr S to disclose anything like this, Casualty needs to have asked him clear 
questions about his dogs previous conditions. Its only if Mr S misrepresented the facts or 
didnt answer the questions asked by Casualty truthfully and honestly that Casualty is then 
able to avail of the remedies permitted to it by law, namely by the provisions of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Further in that 
case, Casualty also needs to show that it could have only offered him a policy which 
excluded cover for issues with his dogs digestive system.
Casualty showed us that Mr S took out this policy via an online price comparison website. 
The questions he was asked didnt ask him about any pre-existing conditions instead Mr S 
was asked Does your policy need to cover [name of dog] for any pre-existing medical 
conditions?.
Further Casualty said when it offered Mr S the policy that he agreed to these two 
assumptions 
Are You looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
None of this specifically asks Mr S about his dogs previous medical history or even previous 
claims. Given this, I consider there is no basis upon which Casualty can say Mr S 
misrepresented anything by answering no to all of them, which he did, as shown on the 
Schedule. Therefore, I dont agree that Casualty gave Mr S any opportunity to tell it about his 
dogs medical conditions or pre-existing conditions. And so, it follows that I dont agree it was 
reasonable to impose an exclusion excluding all claims with respect to the digestive system 
on Mr S policy, as Casualty did here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to remove the exclusion 
it imposed on Mr S policy excluding all claims from cover with respect to the digestive 
system, which I am pleased to note it has already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman