DRN-3976600
The complaint
Miss B complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly settled a claim shes 
made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Miss B owns a car insured under a motor insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. 
While Miss B was stationary at a junction, a car crashed into the rear of her car 
causing significant damage. She reported the accident to Admiral to make a claim on 
the policy.
Due to the extent of the damage, the car was written-off. Admiral offered Miss B 
£3,950 in settlement of the claim but she didnt think this was enough so she 
complained.
Admiral said it had considered the specific details of Miss Bs car and based the 
figure on motor trade guides in line with the policy terms and conditions. It had 
offered the higher of the two figures indicated by the guides and it said this was fair. 
Miss B raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it as she 
was satisfied Admirals settlement was fair. Miss B asked an Ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B says Admirals settlement is significantly below the market value of her car 
and isnt enough to enable her to purchase a like-for-like replacement.
This Service doesnt work out what the exact value of an individual vehicle is. 
Instead, well consider whether the insurer has fairly applied the terms of the policy 
and taken reasonable steps to ensure the valuation is assessed fairly. 
The starting point for my decision is what the policy terms say about the market value 
for a car when its replaced. Im unlikely to tell a business it needs to do something 
more if its acted in line with the policy terms in reaching its valuation.
The policy includes the following definition of market value:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
There are a number of recognised trade guides which this Service considers to be 
reliable and accurate sources of values. This Service finds these particularly 
persuasive as their valuations are based on nationwide research and sales figures. 
I can see Admiral used two of these guides and obtained indicated values of £3,400 
and £3,950 based on the details of Miss Bs car. Admiral offered to settle the claim at 
the higher of these two figures.
Our Investigator independently checked figures from three different guides and found 
these were in line with Admirals figures and the settlement offer was still more than 
the average of the values across these three guides.
Based on this, Im satisfied the valuation figure reached by Admiral was reasonable 
and that it acted in line with the policy terms when reaching its settlement. 
Miss B has provided adverts for a number of cars she says are similar in detail to 
hers and these cars are advertised at a higher price than Admirals settlement offer. I 
have considered this information and note a number of differences in age, mileage 
and location, all of which will impact the price seen. 
But generally, we dont find advertisements like these particularly persuasive as, in 
essence, they display asking prices not agreed sale prices. Its broadly accepted, 
asking prices are higher than selling prices to allow room for negotiation. Adverts 
alone arent normally enough to say a settlement offer is too low as theyre not 
reflective of what the car actually sold for.
In summary, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me Admirals settlement 
offer is too low or that it has acted outside the policy terms so I wont be asking it to 
do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman