DRN-4492348
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled
his claim under his Home insurance policy for damage to his home and the fact it turned
it down.
What happened
Part of the flat felt roof on Mr Ms home blew off in Storm Eunice in February 2022. This led
to water getting into his bedroom ceiling and causing damage to it and to some of the walls
and carpets. And to the floor. Mr M got a builder to put a tarpaulin on the roof as a
temporary repair. And he put in a claim under his policy for the damage to the roof. He has
said he told Lloyds he did not want to claim for the internal damage at this point. Lloyds
asked Mr M to provide a quote for the repairs. It took him a while to get this from his builder,
but he eventually provided it to Lloyds on 11 May 2022. He also provided a video of the
damage to the roof and some photographs.
Lloyds told Mr M it was appointing a loss adjuster to investigate and consider his claim, who
Ill refer to as H. Hs surveyor came to inspect the damage on 30 May 2022. But he arrived
without a ladder, so he couldnt get up to the roof. But he said hed need the tarpaulin to be
removed for him to inspect it. He also asked Mr M to provide the photographs hed provided
to Lloyds. Mr M also agreed to get his neighbour to remove some ivy growing on his
property and said hed liaise with his builder to arrange a time for him to visit with the
surveyor from H and remove the tarpaulin, so the surveyor could inspect Mr Ms roof.
It seems there was then some confusion over whether Mr M was to make this arrangement
with his builder or whether H would do it. Mr M forwarded a further estimate for the repairs to
his roof to Lloyds in September 2022. Hes said he then had calls and emails from Lloyds
asking him to make contact, but Lloyds did not say in these what it wanted and he didnt see
a need to contact it, as hed already provided all the information needed on his claim. Hes
said he did eventually contact Lloyds about its attempted contacts and then received an
email asking why Hs surveyor had not been able to inspect the internal damage to his home
and asking if he could do this and inspect the roof at the same time with the tarpaulin
removed. Lloyds also asked Mr M to provide the photographs that hed already provided.
It's not clear from Mr Ms timeline of events whether he responded to this email, although he
has said he had no problem with the surveyor inspecting both the internal and external
damage. Mr M had of course already sent the required photographs to both Lloyds and H by 
this time.
There were then various communications between Lloyds, H and Mr M, which culminated in
a call by Mr M to H at the beginning of February 2023 in which it told him his claim had been
repudiated. In the meantime, Mr M had contacted Lloyds for help with a better temporary
repair, as water had come into his property again in heavy rain. He was given the number of
a contractor to call, but never managed to make contact with them, despite his best efforts.
Mr M complained to Lloyds and it issued its final response on Mr Ms complaint to him on 16
February 2023. In this it acknowledged there had been some failings on its part, which had
caused delays; and it said it would pay Mr M £1,000 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hed experienced because of these.
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response and asked us to consider his complaint about
Lloyds. It had become clear by the time we got involved that Lloyds had repudiated Mr Ms
claim. So, our investigator checked with Mr M whether he wanted us to consider his
complaints about the delay in dealing with his claim and Lloyds decision to repudiate it. He
said he did, and the investigator checked with Lloyds that this was acceptable. It confirmed it
was happy for us to consider both aspects.
Our investigator concluded Lloyds decision to refuse Mr Ms claim was reasonable. But she
didnt think it had paid enough in compensation for distress and inconvenience. She said
Lloyds should pay a further £500.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In
summary, he thought Lloyds should pay him a further £2,000 for the failings on its part when
dealing with his claim. Lloyds didnt agree with it either; and thought the £1,000 in
compensation it had already paid was enough.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold it and make Lloyds settle Mr Ms claim
for the damage to his roof and his claim for internal damage if he wants it to do so. And pay
him further compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive explained why below.
As our investigator explained when I consider complaints about the rejection of a claim for
storm damage, which is one of the insured events covered by Mr Ms policy, I start by
considering the following three questions:
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said
to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
And I can see that Lloyds considered the same three questions. Both Lloyds and our
investigator concluded the answer to questions 1 and 2 was yes. So, I see no need to
consider these further, as I agree with their views on this. Both Lloyds and our investigator
thought the answer to question 3 was no. However, I do not consider this is the right
answer. I say this because I consider that, in light of Lloyds failure to carry out or arrange an
actual inspection of the damage; and based on the evidence Mr M has provided, he has
shown that it is more likely than not that a storm was the dominant and effective cause of the
damage to his flat felt roof, to the ceiling and walls in his bedroom and to his carpets.
Mr M has provided two estimates for repairs needed to his property from August 2021 and
November 2021 and neither of these suggest the flat roof that is the subject of his claim was
in a bad state of repair. In fact, I think they suggest it was in a fairly good state. The estimate
from November 2021 states minor repairs were needed to the FLAT ROOF ABOVE FIRST
FLOOR BEDROOM. And, while Mr M has said this refers to the small roof above the front
window, it does seem to suggest some minor repairs were needed to the larger flat roof
above the bedroom. However, the reference to minor repairs does not suggest it was in a
particularly bad state and had reached the end of its useful life. I do of course appreciate it
was very old and that flat roofs generally have a limited life span. But this doesnt
automatically mean that Mr Ms roof was in a bad state and Storm Eunice simply highlighted
an existing problem.
I am also mindful of the fact that there had been some storms in the UK in the monthspreceding Storm Eunice. And that Lloyds hasnt provided any compelling evidence to
suggest that water had entered Mr Ms bedroom prior to Storm Eunice. In fact, I think the
lack of evidence to counter Mr Ms assertion that his roof was in a fairly good state of repair
prior to Storm Eunice, and that it was only damaged because of this storm, is Lloyds main
problem in supporting the rejection of Mr Ms claim. I think Mr M is right, that Lloyds should
have properly investigated his claim by inspecting the damage. And if it had done this and
put forward evidence following this inspection that the roof was in a poor state of repair I may
have taken a different view. But Lloyds and H failed to arrange an inspection. And, while
there were issues with Mr Ms builder, I think H was quite capable of making the
arrangements needed to carry out a proper inspection, bearing in mind the resources
available to it. And I think Lloyds was wrong to turn down Mr Ms claim without making sure
the damage was inspected and a full surveyors report provided. And, as far as I am
concerned the evidence available suggests both Mr Ms roof and internal parts of his home
and his carpets were damaged by a storm.
It therefore follows that I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms
complaint, Lloyds should settle his claim for the damage to his roof. I am not sure whether
Mr M has now had the roof repaired, as he was facing a challenge financially to fund it. But,
in view of the length of time that has passed, I think Lloyds should settle his claim by paying
the amount in the second estimate he provided for repairs, i.e. £5,429, which seems
reasonable to me. I think Lloyds should add interest to this at 8% per annum simple from
1 July 2022 to the date of settlement. This is to allow for the fact that the cost of repairs may
have gone up in this period and the possibility that Mr M has had to either use his own
money or borrow money to fund the full repair or some temporary repairs. I have chosen
1 July because Mr M provided an estimate for the repairs on 11 May 2022 and I think it is
reasonable to say Lloyds should have managed to arrange an inspection and agree his
claim by the end of June.
I also think Lloyds should settle Mr Ms claim for any internal damage caused to his
bedroom, stairs and carpets if he wants it to. This is because I consider this occurred as a
direct result of the storm and it is therefore covered by his policy. If Mr M has had repairs
carried out or replaced his carpets, he will need to provide invoices to Lloyds for
consideration. And Lloyds will need to add interest at 8% per annum simple on what it pays
Mr M from the date Mr M paid for the repairs and/or replacement carpets. If he has not had
the repairs carried out or replaced his carpets, Lloyds can either arrange for the necessary
repairs and replacements and pay for them or ask Mr M to provide estimates, which it can
use to work out the amount due to him.
I also agree with our investigator that Lloyds and Hs handling of this claim has been poor
and caused Mr M unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think this was partly due to
Lloyds and H asking for information Mr M had already sent and Lloyds asking him to contact
it without making it clear why. It was also because it and H did not really take proper control
of Mr Ms claim. I think the extra £500 suggested by our investigator is fair for the general
delays with the claim. But, because I actually think Lloyds should have accepted it, I think
Mr M should also receive a further £1,000 for the additional distress and inconvenience he
has experienced as a result of having to live with a damaged roof for a long period of time.
This is because he has put up with this for a very long time, whilst struggling with some
medical issues. And he also had the worry of his mortgage having come to an end and not
being able to address this due to the repairs needed to his home.
I gave both parties until 29 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. Mr M 
has provided the following further comments:
I have based my suggested settlement on the second estimate he obtained, from a 
company Ill refer to as P. This company said they were too busy to do the work just before his claim was repudiated by Lloyds. And he obtained a third estimate, which he 
never submitted to Lloyds. The estimate he accepted was from a company who Ill refer 
to as J for £5,400 including VAT. And he took a loan out with his local council at an 
interest rate of 4% to pay for this, which meant the repairs cost him £5,616 in total. 
He uploaded the video of his roof taken by the local fire brigade to Lloyds earlier than I 
suggested in my provisional decision. His roof was repaired in May 2023. 
He didnt reply to some of Lloyds emails as it became clear that  even if he did  it 
would just repeat its previous requests. 
Lloyds never actually informed him of its decision to repudiate his claim. 
He wasnt going to claim for a new carpet originally, as he was going to replace the 
downstairs carpet anyway. But he is happy to have his claim for the bedroom and stair 
carpets paid. He paid just over £700 to have all his carpets replaced and he considers 
£250 would be a fair proportion of this for the bedroom and stair carpet. 
The bedroom floorboards were damaged by the water entering his property and he paid 
£93 including VAT to replace them. 
Lloyds has responded to say it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Its provided a 
comprehensive report, which it thinks shows that Mr Ms roof was in a poor state of repair 
prior to the damage he has claimed for. And it does not think the damage he has claimed for 
is consistent with storm damage. In the report it has highlighted various issues that it thinks 
supports its view. It has also said its loss adjuster was unable to inspect the roof because of 
the temporary repairs that had been carried out. Its also said the level of rainfall in the 
weeks and days leading up to the damage Mr M has claimed for did not meet its criteria for a 
storm. Its also suggested the poor state of the roof meant it had retained water over a period 
of time, which eventually escaped due to this build up and the weight of the water. Finally, it 
has highlighted the condition in Mr Ms policy, which required him to maintain his home in a 
good state, which it does not believe he did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my view that it should be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
I have of course fully considered Lloyds further comments and evidence. And I now accept 
Mr Ms roof was not in a particularly good state. But I do not believe it was bad enough for 
me to say he breached the abovementioned policy condition about maintaining his property 
in a good state. I say this, because he had had some temporary repairs carried out to the 
roof over the years and  as I see it  he had no reason to think it was failing.
And, while I accept it wasnt in particularly good condition, which was a factor in it failing 
during the storm, I still believe the storm was the dominant and effective cause and I do not 
believe the roof would have failed any time soon after the time that it did. i.e. I think it would 
remained intact and  essentially  doing its job for a reasonable period. The storm 
conditions at the time of the damage were extreme and I think the nature of the damage 
shows that the storm force winds got under the felt and ripped it off. And, for me, this is 
storm damage and what Mr M was insured against. 
I have noted Lloyds comments about the level of rainfall, but I am satisfied that it was the 
storm damage to his roof that was the proximate cause of rain entering Mr Ms property. I am 
not persuaded that the colour of the water in itself proves this wasnt the case. I agree that 
there may have been some moisture in Mr Ms roof and this may have impacted the colour 
of the water that entered his property. However, there is no evidence to suggest water had entered Mr Ms property before the storm. So, for me, the colour of the water that did after 
the storm does not alter the fact that the dominant and effective (proximate) cause of this 
was the storm.  
Also, it remains my view that the investigation carried out by Lloyds loss adjuster was poor. I 
appreciate when he first attended the loss adjuster could not inspect the roof due to the 
temporary repairs. But he had plenty of opportunity to make sure he could do so before he 
visited or to liaise with the builder who had done the temporary repairs and arrange for him 
to remove the tarpaulin. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments and I appreciate him for clarifying some things. I agree it would 
be fair and reasonable for him to be reimbursed what it cost him to have his roof repaired, 
including the interest on the loan he took out. I also agree he should be reimbursed what 
hes suggested for his bedroom and stair carpet and bedroom floorboards. 
In summary, I see no reason to alter the view I set out in my provisional decision that Lloyds 
should meet Mr Ms claim, although the amounts I am going to make them pay for the 
repairs will be slightly different due to the information provided by Mr M in response to my 
provisional decision. 
It also remains my view that the poor handling of Mr Ms claim by Lloyds and its agents does 
warrant the further payment I suggested in my provisional decision for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and make Lloyds do the following:
Settle his claim for his roof by paying him £5,616.
Settle his claim for the internal damage to the ceilings, walls and decorations of his 
home caused by water damage if he wants to claim for this. And add interest at 8% 
per annum simple to the amount due to him if he has already paid for the repairs 
from the date he paid it to the date of actual payment1.
Pay him £250 for the replacement of his bedroom and stair carpet, plus interest at 
8% per annum simple from the date he paid for the carpet to be replaced to the date 
of actual payment. 
Pay him £93 for the replacement floorboards in his bedroom, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date he paid for them to the date of actual payment. 
Pay him a further £1,500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do what Ive 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
1 Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must tell Mr M if it has made a deduction for 
income tax. And, if it has, how much its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Mr M if asked to do so. This will allow Mr M to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman