DRN-1666610
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it worked out his motor insurance premium that led him to cancel his policy.
  
What happened
Mr V took out car insurance through his broker who made an error which meant his premium 
was incorrect. The broker used Mr Vs old address for the policy which meant the premium 
was higher than it shouldve been.
When the policy was corrected it led to a reduction in premium and a refund was made to Mr 
V. But Mr V wasnt happy about the actions of his broker and his renewal was handled by 
the broker which led to him cancelling the policy. Mr V was also unhappy that he had to 
disclose a speeding offence. This was because he believed he didnt have to as the offence 
took place over three years ago. 
Mulsanne looked into the complaint and realised that the refund in premium had been 
worked out incorrectly and that Mr V was owed an additional refund. But Mulsanne said it 
wasnt responsible for working the refund out and blamed this on the broker. And as Mr V 
remained unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and partly upheld it. Although she accepted that 
the broker was responsible for supplying the incorrect address and was entitled to ask about 
Mr Vs driving history she thought that Mulsanne should have ensured the refund in premium 
was correct. And so, she thought that Mulsanne should pay Mr V £100 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience caused. 
But Mulsanne didnt agree. It said that the broker miscalculated the refund in premium and 
so it wasnt responsible. So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. But Ill repeat for clarity that this decision is only about the actions of Mulsanne and not 
Mr Vs broker as that complaint is being looked at separately. 
I know Mr V feels that he didnt have to disclose the speeding offence as it happened more 
than three years before the renewal application. But as our investigator explained insurers 
are entitled to ask about speeding offences and driving history up to five years, which they 
consider when they look at the risk a consumer poses and in turn the premium it charges. 
Turning to the error in relation to using the wrong address for Mr V it is accepted that Mr Vs 
broker made a clear error in relation to this. And the use of the wrong address created a 
higher premium. Although I accept Mulsanne wasnt responsible for this error I do think it 
was responsible for the incorrect recalculation. It feels that the broker was at fault, but I 
havent seen anything to support this position and I feel that Mulsanne, as the insurer, is 
responsible here. 
So, Mulsanne initially refunded only £64.42 when it should have refunded £243. And while 
Im satisfied that the eventual calculation was correct I do feel that it if it wasnt for Mr V 
questioning this then it may never have been corrected. And I think that this impacted Mr V 
and I agree that he should be paid £100 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I uphold this complaint. And I require 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr V £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman