DRN-4467205
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with a car she acquired using a hire purchase agreement, provided by 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera).
What happened
In March 2022 Ms S acquired a used car from a dealer. The car cost just under £25,000, 
was around two and a half years old and had covered around 24,406 miles. Ms S took a hire 
purchase agreement through Alphera to cover the cost.
Ms S said around four weeks after getting the car, she noticed the wheel alignment was 
incorrect. She was told this would cost £5,191.22 to repair by a manufacturers garage. But, 
this was then put right for £180 by a local garage who repaired a rod end and track rod.
Ms S then said the car broke down in October 2022. A local garage again repaired the car, 
replacing spark plugs and cleaning a high pressure pump for a cost of £177.45. The mileage 
of the car at this point was 30,149.
Ms S complained to Alphera and it issued a final response in February 2023. This said, in 
summary, that it didnt think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Ms S acquired it. But 
it said if Ms S could provide further information then it would consider this.
Ms S then referred the complaint to our service. She said she hasnt been able to drive the 
car for a total of around ten weeks since she got it. She told us the car has ongoing issues, it 
had an advisory on an MOT, that it is a death trap and said she is concerned for her 
familys safety because of the car.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she thought the issue with the 
wheel alignment was likely present or developing at the point of supply. So, she said Alphera 
should reimburse the cost of this repair and pay her £150 for distress and inconvenience 
caused. But, she thought the later issues with the pump and spark plugs were likely down to 
wear and tear and so said Alphera werent responsible for this.
Ms S was unhappy with this. She sent in an invoice for £150 shed paid for a diagnostic from 
July 2023. She also provided an estimate to cover wiring checks in relation to a fault code, 
an alloy wheel replacement and an emergency battery. The estimate totalled £1,973.51. The 
mileage was recorded as 33,964.
Ms S said Alphera should carry out the repairs from the estimate, service the car for free and 
pay her £500, or said it should let her sell the car and accept any shortfall. Or she said it 
should take the car back directly and pay her £500.
Alphera got in touch and provided an email that said the dealer had paid £180 for the initial 
repairs. So, it asked for evidence from Ms S that she covered the cost herself. And it said Ms 
S had reasonable use of the car.
We asked Ms S for her comments on this. She said she had to pay £150 for an inspection 
and pay out for an MOT. And she said she should still get £500 because of what happened.
Because Alphera and Ms S disagreed, the case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Alphera and Ms S a provisional decision on 18 October 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Id like to start by explaining to both parties that I might not comment on every individual 
point raised or every piece of evidence. While I have carefully considered all of the 
information on the case, I am going to focus on what I think are the key points and the crux 
of the complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ms S complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Ms Ss complaint against Alphera.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Alphera here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. Ms Ss car was around two and a half years old and had covered 
around 24,400 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would not expect it to be in the same 
condition as a new car and might assume parts of the car had suffered wear and tear. But, 
the car still cost around £25,000, so I think a reasonable person would expect it to have 
been free from anything other than minor defects and wouldve expected trouble free 
motoring for some time.
So, what I need to consider here is whether the car supplied to Ms S was of satisfactory 
quality or not. Ms S has raised a few issues, so Ill consider these in turn.
Wheel alignment
Ms S says she noticed this issue occurred around four weeks after she got the car. And our 
investigator said she thought it was most likely this was present or developing at the point of 
supply. But, I dont agree here.
Looking at the estimate from the manufacturers garage, it appears a stabilisation warning 
notification was on the dashboard. And Ive thought about what Ms S told us when she 
referred the complaint to our service. She said:
the wheel alignment was totally out, one was pointing outwards while the other was 
straight.
Given this, it appears the wheel alignment issue was severe. I wouldve expected, if this 
issue was present when Ms S got the car, that this wouldve been noticed immediately  not 
after a few weeks.
Given the apparent severity of the issue, this might suggest this had been caused by an 
external issue such as an impact to the wheel. And it appears from some testimony from the 
dealer that this was what the manufacturers garage suspected when it saw the car.
Thinking about all of this, Im not persuaded that this issue was present when Ms S got the car. But, I do appreciate there is a lack of evidence here and this is a finely balanced point.
So, its worth explaining that even if I reached the opposite conclusion above, I still wouldnt 
ask Alphera to do anything further. I say this because under the CRA, if this issue was 
present when Ms S got the car, and I concluded that this meant it was of unsatisfactory 
quality, then a repair would be one of the remedies available to Ms S to put things right. It 
doesnt seem in dispute that a repair took place, and that the dealer paid for this, not Ms S.
So, whether this issue was present at the point of supply, or happened after Ms S got the 
car, it has been fixed at no cost to her. This means Alphera needs to take no further action 
on this point.
Spark plugs and pump
Ive thought about when these issues occurred. At the point the repair was carried out, Ms S 
had the car for over seven months and it had covered just under 6,000 miles since she got it. 
Im satisfied if this issue had been present or developing when Ms S acquired the car, then it 
wouldve appeared earlier than it did. But, that being said, I still need to decide if this issue 
meant that the car was durable  which the CRA explains should be considered as part of 
satisfactory quality.
Its important to note that Ms S told our service that she knew at the point she got the car 
that it had no service history. I think this needs to be considered as a relevant 
circumstance, as its possible that the car hadnt been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers guidelines.
Thinking about all of this, on balance Im not persuaded the issues with the spark plugs and 
pump meant the car wasnt durable  especially considering the lack of service history.
That being said, its worth explaining that even if I reached the opposite conclusion, I again 
still wouldnt ask Alphera to take any further action. Thats because Ive seen a copy of the 
invoice from this work that was billed to the dealer  not to Ms S. So, Im not persuaded that 
Ms S paid for this work either  I think its more likely the dealer covered the cost.
This means that the car was again repaired free of charge to Ms S. So, even if I thought this 
issue meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, the repair wouldve broadly met Ms Ss 
rights under the CRA as with the previous issue.
Later issues
Ms S has recently provided our service with some further evidence about other issues with 
the car. These included recommended repairs for wiring checks in relation to a fault code, an 
alloy wheel replacement and an emergency battery.
The estimate from this work is from July 2023  which is not far off 18 months after Ms S got 
the car. And the mileage is recorded as just short of 34,000, meaning the car has covered 
just under 10,000 miles since Ms S got it. Considering this, Im satisfied these issues were 
not present or developing at the point of supply, nor do they mean the car wasnt durable. I 
think its most likely these are down to wear and tear of the car.
It follows this that I dont think Alphera are responsible for these issues. To be clear, this also 
means I dont think its reasonable for Alphera to cover the cost of the associated diagnostic.
SummaryIn summary, Im not persuaded that the issues with the wheel alignment, spark plugs and 
pump were present or developing when Ms S got the car. Nor do I think these issues mean 
the car wasnt reasonably durable. But, that being said, Im satisfied these issues were 
repaired free of charge to Ms S and so whatever happened, an appropriate remedy under 
the CRA has been carried out.
Im also satisfied that the more recent issues Ms S complained about are due to wear and 
tear and do not mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality when she acquired it.
I want to reassure Ms S that Ive carefully considered all of the other points shes raised, but 
I do not think this complaint should be upheld.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further information or evidence. 
Alphera responded and said it agreed with the provisional decision.
Ms S replied. She confirmed she didnt pay for the repairs to the car, but said she did pay for 
an MOT and an inspection. She said she was very disappointed with what Id said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, and having carefully considered the comments Ms S 
made in her recent response, I still do not think this complaint should be upheld.
This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman