DRN-2781693
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt action a payment freeze on his account as 
they had promised they would
What happened
In April 2020, Mr M contacted Sainsburys to advise that he had been financially impacted by 
the Covid-19 pandemic and to request an emergency payment freeze on his account. Mr M 
didnt initially receive a response from Sainsburys, so he contacted them again in May 2020 
and was told that an emergency payment freeze would be applied to his account.
In September 2020, after receiving arrears letter on his account, Mr M contacted Sainsburys 
again and it was discovered that the emergency payment freeze hadnt been applied to his 
account as promised. This meant that late payment markers had been applied to Mr Ms 
credit file, and this had resulted in him being declined for car finance and so being unable to 
get the new car he had wanted. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mr Ms complaint. They accepted that they had made an error by not 
actioning the emergency payment freeze that Mr M had requested and they made a 
payment to Mr M of £150 as compensation for this. Sainsburys also later made a further £50 
offer of compensation to Mr M in recognition of the inconvenience he had incurred regarding 
the rejection of his car finance application. 
However, shortly afterwards, Mr M noticed another late payment market had been added to 
his credit file. So, he complained to Sainsburys once again. Sainsburys acknowledged that 
they hadnt removed the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file as quickly as they should 
have done but promised to amend Mr Ms credit file as a priority and made an additional 
payment of £50 to Mr M to compensate him for the additional inconvenience.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys overall response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that Sainsburys had 
made errors which merited the payment of compensation to Mr M, but they thought that the 
£200 payment of compensation that Sainsburys had made, as well as the additional offer of 
£50 that remained outstanding, represented a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ms 
complaint. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its understandable to me how Mr M would be frustrated by what has taken 
place here, especially given that Sainsburys not actioning his request for an emergency 
payment freeze directly inconvenienced him with regard to him not being approved for the 
car finance deal that he wanted.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has made an error that has caused the 
customer to be inconvenienced, what this service would expect would be that the business 
would take corrective action to rectify the error that they had made and also that they would 
fairly compensate the customer in light of the inconvenience incurred.
I think that Sainsburys have done that here. Theyve corrected Mr Ms account and have 
also removed the missed payment markers from Mr Ms credit file.
Matters of compensation are always subjective, with an offer considered as fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as such by another. But the £250 total amount 
of compensation paid and offered by Sainsburys does feel fair to me, and I can confirm its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
Im aware that Mr M feels that a higher amount of compensation should be awarded in this 
instance, but that isnt an instruction I feel is warranted at this time. I must note that it isnt 
the role of this service to punish or fine a business, but rather to ensure that the amount of 
compensation paid to a customer is reasonable and compensates them fairly for the 
inconvenience that theyve incurred. And I think thats the case already here.
So, while I agree that Sainsburys did make errors regarding the non-actioning of the 
emergency payment freeze and not amending Mr Ms credit file in a timely manner, Im 
satisfied that the corrective action that Sainsburys have already taken, as well as the 
compensation already paid and offered to Mr M, does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Sainsburys to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr M can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman