DRN-2069523
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont cover the full 
replacement cost of their fitted kitchen following water damage.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S had home insurance with UKI. Although the policy is in joint names, because 
he dealt with the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to Mr S.
Mr S claimed under his buildings insurance for water damage, caused by a leak in his 
neighbours home, which affected several parts of the ground floor of his home. UKI 
accepted the claim.
In order to repair the damage to the walls, some of Mr Ss fitted kitchen would need to be 
removed and he was told that it would likely be damaged during the process. UKI offered Mr 
S a cash settlement, which he declined, or to cover the damaged units and 50% of the 
undamaged units. Mr S was unhappy with the offer and complained. 
UKI thought its offer was fair under the terms of the policy for matching sets, and it didnt 
agree with Mr S that it should cover the full cost of a new fitted kitchen. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He saw that the policy only covered Mr S for 
the damaged items, so he thought UKIs offer to cover 50% of the undamaged kitchen units 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree. He thought that a fitted kitchen should be classed as a single item rather 
than a matching set, meaning the whole kitchen was damaged. Mr S also disagreed with our 
investigators view that UKIs cash settlement offer was fair when the total repair cost was 
unknown. He thought that UKI wasnt offering to replace his kitchen with one of equal quality.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres been a lot of correspondence about Mr Ss complaint, the details of which are well-
known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything here. But Mr S has raised two key issues 
in response to our investigation and Ill address each in turn. 
Matching sets
Mr S says he wasnt made aware of the term in the policy that says he isnt covered for 
matching sets and he thinks UKI should pay to replace all the fitted kitchen. I understand that 
he bought the policy online, so the terms wouldve been available to him to read and it was 
his responsibility to ensure he understood the cover he was buying. That said, Ive looked at 
the policy to see whether it is clear and whether it was fair for UKI to decline his request for 
replacement of all kitchen units.
The policy says:
We wont pay:
to alter or restore any undamaged part of the buildings
to replace or alter any undamaged items solely because they are part of a set, suite, 
group or collection.
I think the terms are clear. But Mr S argues that a fitted kitchen is a single item, not a set, 
suite, group or collection and he offered examples of the type of item which might be 
covered within that definition. I realise that Mr S is making a point here, but the matching 
sets he mentioned would be covered under contents insurance rather than buildings 
insurance. Under a buildings policy, a matching set would be a fixture or fitting permanently 
installed, such as a kitchen or bathroom suite. It mightve been helpful if a matching set was 
defined in the policy, but the absence of a definition doesnt persuade me that UKI should 
cover the full kitchen replacement as if it were a single item.
Despite not covering undamaged items, I see that UKI offered to contribute 50% towards the 
cost of replacing the kitchen units which werent affected by the leak. Mr Ss kitchen is no 
longer available to buy so he wouldnt have been able to match the damaged units. 
Understandably, Mr S wanted a fully fitted, matching kitchen  which is what he has now - so 
he would have to replace all units. But UKI isnt responsible for replacing undamaged items 
so, in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for UKI to meet him halfway on the cost. 
Mr S says the replacement kitchen UKI offered isnt of a similar quality to his existing, 
bespoke kitchen, and its cash settlement offer wont cover the cost of replacement. Ive seen 
the quote that Mr S supplied UKI with, which is in the region of £20,000 without fitting. Mr S 
supplied me with a copy of the quote for his existing, 14-unit kitchen from over 12 years ago. 
The quote is from a popular kitchen retail company and it doesnt provide an itemised break-
down, but I understand it includes fitting. The total is for just under £10,000 and Mr S 
confirmed he paid £10,800. 
I have no reason to doubt that UKI will try to provide a kitchen of a similar type to Mr Ss 
existing kitchen, despite his concerns. And that might be more easily achieved if Mr S 
supplies UKI with the details of his existing kitchen to enable it to source a fair match. The 
policy Mr S has with UKI is to put him back in the same position as before the damage. UKI 
will replace the damaged units which puts Mr S back in the position of having a kitchen. The 
issue of the undamaged units, then, is about how they look. UKIs offer to contribute 50% of 
the cost of replacing the undamaged units is not because its responsible for covering the 
whole kitchen, but to compensate Mr S for the loss of match. If UKI paid for the full kitchen, 
and anything more than a similar level of quality, it would constitute betterment. Mr Ss policy 
doesnt provide for betterment.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI made a fair offer to contribute to Mr Ss undamaged kitchen 
units and I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
 
Cash settlement
Mr S doesnt think UKI acted fairly or reasonably when it offered a cash settlement for his 
claim. Thats because the costs are unknown and anything it offered might not cover the 
work needed. I understand what Mr S is saying, but I dont think it means UKI acted unreasonably. It offered a cash settlement in line with the terms of his policy and Mr S 
declined it. While he mightve been unhappy with the amount UKI offered, I cant see that its 
offer caused any loss. So, I dont think theres anything that UKI needs to do in respect of 
this issue of complaint.
I can understand why this is particularly frustrating for Mr S because the damage was 
caused by an incident in his neighbours house, so the matter was out of his control. And 
UKI didnt want to replace the whole kitchen because, as it stands, only three cupboards 
would need to be taken out, causing damage beyond repair. But I sympathise with Mr S 
because he had a matching fitted kitchen and it looks like hell have to contribute to the costs 
of a new one through no fault of his own. He cant replace just the damaged cupboards 
because theyre no longer available.
But I must be fair to both sides and I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for the full cost of 
a new kitchen when it hasnt all been damaged. UKI has no control of stock availability for 
replacements, so it can only offer the nearest alternative. If the policy states that it wont 
replace the full kitchen, and there arent any extenuating circumstances here which make me 
think it should do more, I think UKIs offer of 50% of the cost of the undamaged units is fair.
I hope Mr S understands why Ive reached this decision. I realise it might be a difficult 
decision to accept but I really cant see that UKI has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman