DRN-3245675
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim she made on
her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S travelled abroad on 3 November 2019. She was due to return on 31 March 2020 but,
due to the impact of Covid-19, her flight was cancelled. Miss S was unable to continue with
her trip as shed planned and had to stay abroad longer than expected, incurring additional
costs for food and accommodation.
She booked and paid for a new flight home and returned on 16 April 2020. She had to travel
to a different airport in the UK and incur additional costs travelling back to her original
destination.
Miss S had booked her flights through a travel provider and attempted to claim back the
costs of her flight but was unsuccessful in obtaining a cash refund. She also contacted her
credit card provider and was able to claim back some of the cost of her original flight home.
Miss S submitted a claim to her insurer for the additional travel, food and accommodation
costs shed incurred. She explained she felt the claim was covered under the force majeure
section of the policy because Covid-19 was caused by what the policy describes as an act
of nature. URV disagreed Covid-19 was an act of nature and declined the claim.
Unhappy with this outcome, Miss S referred the matter to this service. One of our
investigators looked into what had happened. She thought URV had been unfair to decline
the claim because she said Covid-19 fell within the scope of acts of nature under the force
majeure section of the policy. So, she said URV should pay the claim for accommodation
and food. But she didnt think the costs for returning to the UK were covered because the
policy only covers the costs of getting the policy holder to a safer area, and Covid-19 was
also in the UK at this time. And, both the UK and the country Miss S was visiting were in
lockdown.
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In December 2021 I 
reached a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. In 
summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Miss Ss claim. I
think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19; FCDO advice; and the government
restrictions in place abroad at the time  are all likely to have impacted on the cancellation of
her flight home and extended stay abroad.
Miss S feels strongly that her claim is covered under the force majeure section of the policy.
I dont intend to make a finding on whether - in the absence of that term being further defined
- Covid-19 and its global impact should reasonably be considered as an act of nature in this
case. Thats because, even if it ought to be, I must also take account of the remaining policy
terms and any exclusions that apply.
Having carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, Ive identified a general
exclusion which is relevant to this case that hasnt been mentioned previously. Under the
section what is not covered it says:
Below are some important conditions and exclusions which apply to all sections of
your pre travel and travel policies.
We will not pay for:
Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction or any prohibitive
regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities of any country.
Whilst Im sorry to hear that Miss S incurred additional expenses during her extended trip
abroad, Im not upholding this complaint because Im satisfied this exclusion applies to the
circumstances of Miss Ss claim.
Miss S was due to fly home on 31 March 2020. So, Ive considered when any prohibitive
regulations came into force that wouldve affected Miss Ss travel plans. The Foreign and
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. And
the country Miss S was stuck in went in to lockdown on 25 March 2020. So, its most likely
these regulations wouldve been a reason Miss Ss flight was cancelled. I also note that
Miss S was due to fly home via two other countries, which had already implemented
restrictions on travel. The UK had also closed its borders by this point in time. So, I think its
most likely that the prohibitive regulations imposed by the relevant governments in response
to Covid-19 had an impact on Miss Ss travel plans and thats specifically excluded by the
policy.
Ive considered the other sections of the policy, particularly the force majeure section
referred to above. However, the exclusion Ive quoted above applies to all sections of the
policy, so it must be taken account of. On that basis, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask URV to
cover something that is excluded.
I appreciate that Miss S was in a difficult situation. Her immediate focus was following the
local regulations and trying to get home to the UK, which is understandable. As a result of 
the restrictions in place, Miss S paid a significant amount for a new flight home and incurred
extra food and accommodation costs during her enforced stay abroad. However, whilst I
entirely understand Miss Ss reasons for staying abroad, cover for this type of event is
excluded under this policy for the reasons Ive explained.
Unfortunately, theres just no cover under this policy for the situation in which Miss S found
herself in. Although she wasnt covered for costs incurred due to prohibitive regulations, Miss
S did still have the other benefits of her insurance policy before she left the UK and whilst
she was abroad.
I know this will be disappointing to Miss S, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds
upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept this claim.
Finally, Im aware that Miss S has taken steps to recover her losses from the travel provider,
who has since gone out of business, and her credit card provider. However, Miss S may
wish to consider approaching the airline directly, or alternatively the UK regulator of the
airline industry, as there may be further avenues for her to recover her losses. I can't say
whether Miss S will be successful in recovering her losses via those avenues, but it mayoffer her a further opportunity to recover her outstanding financial losses.
URV didnt add any further comments. Miss S disagreed and responded with a number of 
further points. In summary, she said:
The FCDO advice and Government restrictions all come into force because of Covid-
19. 
Without Covid-19 the delay to her travel arrangements wouldnt have happened. 
Covid-19 was caused by a virus which is an act of nature, so therefore its included in 
force majeure.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further points raised by Miss S. However, theyve not changed my
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
I understand that Miss S feels strongly that ultimately her claim is down to Covid-19. And this 
is an act of nature that should be covered under the force majeure section of her policy. As 
Ive acknowledged in my provisional decision, I think there were a number of reasons for her 
flight cancellation and extended trip. And I understand her logic that these all stemmed from 
Covid-19. 
However, there is a clear general exclusion for prohibited regulations in Miss Ss policy.  
And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think its most likely that the 
prohibitive regulations put in place in response to Covid-19 had an impact on Miss Ss travel 
plans. So, Im satisfied this exclusion applies to the circumstances of Miss Ss claim.
This means even if I concluded this was a force majeure event - the general exclusion would 
still apply and override this. The exclusion explains it applies to all sections of your pre 
travel and travel policies.
So, whilst Im sorry to bring Miss S what I know is disappointing news, I dont think there are 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept this claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman