DRN-2262380
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his property insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) because it has declined a claim he made when a crack appeared in the tray of his 
en-suite shower.
Mr B arranges his insurance through his bank but RSA underwrites the cover and is 
responsible for all claim activity. Therefore, this decision will refer only to RSA.
What happened
Mr B made a claim when his shower cracked. This was logged initially as accidental 
damage. Mr B was asked to provide a quote. RSA felt the quote was high and sent a 
company to Mr Bs property to assess the damage. The assessor looked at the shower, 
noted a crack in the base of the tray in-line with the edge of the wall and felt it was likely 
a fatigue crack. Mr Bs claim was declined.
Mr B was unhappy  he felt the assessor had been negligent in not looking under the 
shower tray to find the root cause of the crack. RSA issued a final decision to Mr B in 
which it explained that wear and tear damage, anything that happens gradually or is 
caused by faulty workmanship or poor design, is excluded from cover. Mr B complained 
to this service.
Mr B, who is an engineer, completed an investigation under the shower and sent a copy 
of his findings to us, which we shared with RSA. Mr B concluded that the root cause of 
the crack in the shower tray was a small displacement in the floor in the centre of the 
shower  this had caused the support to lose contact with the resin base of the shower 
and, with use, the resin base cracked and this then meant unusual loads were placed on 
the shower tray which cracked. He said surely cover is available when the structure of 
his home causes damage. RSA felt the report showed the damage to the shower tray 
wasnt covered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that only damage caused by 
certain types of events, plus accidental damage, are covered by Mr Bs policy. She 
thought the only cover that might apply would be that for accidental damage. But she 
noted that the damage in question here didnt really seem to fit with the definition of 
accidental damage and felt that, even if that hurdle could be overcome, there were 
exclusions to cover which likely defeated RSAs liability.
Mr B maintained that the assessors investigation had been flawed, he felt this was unfair as 
it enabled the claim to be declined which was likely always the intent. A term regarding wear 
and tear, Mr B said, makes any policy meaningless unless one is claiming for a new item.
Mr B asked if the nature of the cover he has means that if something occurs with the 
structure of his home which causes damage, he wont be covered. Mr B also asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
The complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisonal decision as I felt RSA should 
reconsider the claim and pay Mr B £150 compensation. RSA asked if I had considered 
its response regarding the report Mr B had compiled. It also queried why I had placed 
weight on this given Mr B had written it. Mr B largely welcomed my findings but said the 
shower has now been out of use for sometime. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Having done so, I think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. It seems to me that the 
shower tray cracked suddenly and, if this was caused by underlying issues that occurred 
gradually  but which couldnt be seen or known about  it would (in-line with our usual 
approach) be unfair for the gradual cause/wear and tear exclusion to be relied upon to 
defeat the claim. Ill explain.
Mr Bs policy offers cover for damage caused by certain events, such as water damage, 
fire, subsidence etc. There is also cover for accidental damage. Other than accidental 
damage it is fair to say that its unlikely that any of the insured events listed in the policy 
would have caused this damage  for one thing Mr B would have noticed something like 
a fire occurring.
Accidental damage, under the policy, has to occur suddenly. But the policy also contains 
exclusions  which mean that even if the definition of accidental damage is met, the 
claim may still fail. The exclusions that have been raised here are:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by 
or resulting from:
wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, 
condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of time
poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
If the damage in question doesnt meet the definition of accidental damage or RSA can 
show, on balance, that one of the relevant exclusions likely reasonably applies then the 
claim will fail.
That said, this service has a long-standing approach to situations where an insurer 
seeks to rely on a gradual cause/wear and tear exclusion to decline a claim. We say that 
if a policyholder was reasonably unaware that they had an on-going issue that was 
causing, or would eventually cause, damage it is unfair for the insurer to rely on the 
gradual/wear and tear exclusion to defeat the claim. Ive considered then how that 
position applies in the circumstances of this claim and complaint.
I understand the extent of RSAs assessors investigation was disappointing for Mr B but 
it isnt necessarily unusual for an insurer to only complete a visual inspection in the first 
instance. If the insurer thinks more drastic investigations are needed then itll complete 
those  but not otherwise. That is because the insurer only has to consider its liability 
under the terms of the policy. Therefore, if it thinks a relevant exclusion might apply it 
only has to show, on balance, this was likely the cause of the damage. It doesnt have to 
carry out extensive investigation to determine exactly what caused the problem.
If, though, when a complaint is made to this service, we think the investigation and/or the 
insurers conclusion was flawed, we can make a finding in that respect. So its not true to 
say that insurers set out to decline claims by knowingly and intentionally completing inadequate investigations.
Here RSAs assessor was able to form an expert opinion about the damage with just a 
visual inspection. I dont think that was necessarily an unreasonable thing for him to do 
in the circumstances, given the report of the incident, the damage in question and the 
policy terms. He concluded the damage was a fatigue crack and felt this would be 
excluded. However, he also noted that there was no water damage. If there had been, it 
would have suggested that the crack had been present in some form for some time, 
getting worse until the point it became obviously visible. In that scenario Mr B would 
likely lose  damage was occurring which he could have noticed but didnt. RSA could 
fairly rely on the exclusion and it would have no liability for the loss.
But here, as I say, it was found that no water damage had occurred. From the photos 
provided, the crack looks clean and the photos of under the shower also show no signs 
of water damage. Further Mr B has reported that the crack in the shower tray (the 
outer/upper tray which one stands in if you will) occurred suddenly. He also reports the 
crack in the under tray (which the outer/upper tray sits in) occurred suddenly.
Mr Bs account in this respect is quite technical as he is an engineer and has sought to 
explain how forces acted upon the under tray with normal use of the shower after 
something happened to cause the floor in the middle of the shower, under the middle 
support leg, to shift and become dipped. Generally speaking a policyholder cant be an 
expert for their own case  but what Mr B says sounds plausible to me. And, importantly, 
I note that RSA hasnt disputed it. Rather it accepted it but felt that was further evidence 
of gradual damage occurring. Seemingly either because a chain of events caused the 
damage to the outer/upper shower tray or a chain of events had allowed extra/unusual 
pressure to be placed on the outer/upper tray, either scenario ultimately resulting in 
damage occurring gradually. The difficulty for RSA is that Mr B couldnt reasonably have 
known what was going on under the shower, that something was occurring that was 
causing damage and would cause further damage if not forestalled. Applying our 
approach to gradual cause exclusions, RSA cant, in my view, fairly decline Mr Bs claim.
Whilst I understand that RSA has also said the shower may have been damaged by 
poor design/faulty workmanship, it hasnt, to my mind, shown this is most likely the case. 
And in saying that Im mindful that Mr B says the shower has been in place for a number 
of years without incident. On the face of it then it seems unlikely that something occurred 
during installation which has lain dormant for years before damage has occurred. If RSA 
had wanted to rely on this exclusion it needed, in this scenario, to do more than put it 
forward as a hypothesis.
I see and accept that RSAs conclusion following its limited investigation was frustrating 
for Mr B. In the situation here  given what RSA knows about our approach to an 
insurers reliance on this type of exclusion  I think it should have completed further 
investigations. If it had, whether or not it came to the fair and reasonable conclusion that 
I have set out here, much of Mr Bs upset would have been avoided. Hed have felt 
heard and that RSA hadnt just dismissed his concerns. Im of the view RSA should pay 
£150 compensation to Mr B.
As can be seen from these findings I had taken account of RSAs comments in reply to 
Mr Bs report. I also explained why I felt it was reasonable, in this instance, to take his 
explanation at face value. In summary I havent relied solely on that report but I found it 
made sense, it correlated with RSAs experts findings and RSA had had the chance to 
consider it and hadnt sought to challenge its content. I then considered whether RSAs 
approach, in light of that information, which it had been prepared to acept at face value, 
was fair and reasonable. For the reasons set out above, I didnt think that it was. My view hasnt changed.
I understand that this has been a difficult and frustrating time for Mr B. But, having 
reviewd matters, Im not minded to increase my compensation award. Im satisfed that 
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require RSA to reconsider Mr Bs claim for accidental damage to his shower. It will 
have to do that in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  it wont be 
able to rely on exclusions already used to try and defeat the claim again. If Mr B has 
done any work already, RSA will have to settle the claim at his cost, not what it might 
have cost it to do the work.
I also require RSA to pay Mr B £150 compensation. This is for the upset it caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to provide the 
redress set out above (putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman