DRN-3412893
The complaint
Mr I complains about Revolut Trading Ltd, an appointed representative of Resolution 
Compliance Limited, referred to as the business.  
In summary, he says: 
The business sold his Oasis Petroleum warrants (warrants) without his approval.
The businesss broker (and trading partner) DriveWealth, purportedly doesnt 
support warrants, but it held his warrants for four months before selling them.
DriveWealth had to use the word dividend to make payment because it apparently 
couldnt select the warrant option, because it didnt support this, which is incorrect.  
DriveWealth apparently has power to liquidate his assets, which isnt fair. 
He doesnt accept that he cant use his European Union (EU) rights, as DriveWealth 
isnt authorised/regulated in the EU. 
To put things right, he would like the business to give back his warrants.
What happened
In October 2020, Oasis Petroleum Inc. (Oasis) was delisted from the NASDAQ 
stockmarket after the company filed for bankruptcy. Its shares were also suspended. As a 
result, Mr I was unable to buy or sell (trade) Oasis shares on the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE).  
On 19 November 2020, all old Oasis stocks were cancelled, and Mr I was entitled to five 
warrants for every 1,000 shares he owned, as made clear in the OAS Emergence 
Stock/Warrant FAQ document.
Although Oasis announced restructuring of the company  which meant that company 
stocks would return to the NYSE  it was a completely new entity established out of re-
organising the shares. This meant the old Oasis shareholders werent eligible to receive new 
shares, whether it be automatically or at all.  
The warrants themselves also didnt have an intrinsic value, not until there was a buyer, in 
other words until someone was willing to purchase them. This also didnt mean that they 
were the same as shares, in that Mr H couldnt just trade them as he would shares. 
The warrants also only gave Mr H a right to purchase shares at a specific price before they 
expired. This was explained further in the FAQs referred to above. Point four of the FAQs 
states:  
The initial exercise price of each warrant is $94.57, which means that when you exercise 
the warrant, you will purchase one share of new Oasis common stock for $94.47. 
On 14 April 2021, Mr I received a payment of $121.52 in his Revolut account under 
dividends. 
In its Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 16 June 2021, the business made the following key 
points:
Mr I could only trade with the business on his own initiative, on the basis of an 
ongoing relationship. But the trading service isnt provided by an investment entity 
authorised by the EU, which means he doesnt have the benefit of any EU regulatory 
protections or investor compensation schemes.  
Mr I wouldve agreed to the terms and conditions set by DriveWeath when he signed 
up to the business.    
The business explained:
oFor each OASPQ share that you owned, you had the right to receive 
0.00506285 warrants (OASPW). Each OASPW was liquidated (CIL) at a price 
of £12.000 per warrant. You had 2000 OASPQ shares in your account, which 
grated you 10.1257 warrants, and, hence, you received 121.50 USD in your 
investment account. 
According to the agreement with DriveWealth, it was entitled (and has the right to) 
place its own conditions when it comes to trading orders using the Revolut app. 
According to the agreement Mr I had with it, it had the right to liquidate any assets in 
his account in order to close the transactions in his account. 
The warrants stayed with DriveWealth because they had little value and it took longer 
than anticipated to sell. In other words, the broker was unable to find a buyer sooner.  
The cash appears as Dividends in Mr Is trading account because DriveWealth 
doesnt support warrants  it doesnt have categories related to warrants or to 
warrants exchanged.  
The wording on the app (namely Dividends) had no impact on the value of the 
liquidated warrants.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
DriveWealth isnt a regulated business therefore hes unable to specifically comment 
upon its actions. Mr I is unlikely to be able to pursue Drivewealth using his EU rights 
because it isnt authorised in the EU. The business has done nothing wrong by 
notifying Mr I of this. 
The above notwithstanding, the business did what it should have done.
Due to the market conditions, there was a delay in selling his warrants, so they 
stayed with DriveWealth for four months until a buyer was located. 
Theres nothing wrong with what the business said about DriveWealth, and the delay 
was down to it not being able to find a buyer sooner. 
When Mr I signed up to use the business services he agreed to its terms and 
conditions, set out by DriveWealth. Section 10 of the Terms and Conditions state:
oFor our protection and to satisfy your obligations, we may, in our discretion 
and without notice, sell or otherwise liquidate all or any part of the Securities 
and Other Assets in your Account, to satisfy your obligations or closing any or 
all Transactions in Your Account. You are responsible for all debits, costs, 
commissions and losses arising from any actions we must take to liquidate or 
close Transactions in your Account. You are responsible for all debits, costs, 
commissions and losses arising from any actions we must take to liquidate or 
close Transactions in your Account, or from our failure to make timely good 
delivery of securities.
In this instance DriveWealth used its right to liquidate Mr Is assets when Oasis went 
into bankruptcy  in doing so it has acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
He appreciates the confusion caused by the payment received by Mr I on 14 April 
2021, as it was labelled Dividend. But the explanation given by the business makes clear why this was the case  primarily because DriveWealth doesnt support 
warrants so they cant select that category and have had to use dividend to make 
payment. 
In any case, this hasnt impacted the money received by Mr I. 
Mr I received emails from Revolut which have been categorized as spam, but this 
isnt something that he can blame the business for. 
In any event, he cant say that Mr I has lost out financially as a result of whats 
happened. 
Mr I disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence between him and our investigator who is no longer at the 
service. In summary, Mr I made the following key points. 
First, DriveWealth in reference to Section 10 of the terms and conditions is a bad 
conduit. 
Secondly, the fact that DriveWealth didnt comply with EU consumer rights, means 
that EU mandatory obligations dont apply to it, and only apply to the business. 
Thirdly, hes aware that using the word Dividends cant produce a financial loss, if 
its a mistake, or technical issue on the app. 
But using the word, to explain a lie  that DriveWealth didnt/doesnt support warrants 
 in order to sell something that wasnt theirs, is different, and is a crime under EU 
law. 
Hes not asking for payment, but he will seek financial loss if his warrants arent 
returned to him. 
Hes aware that EU bank insiders talk of Russian cover for the business and have 
advised customers to liquidate their business accounts due to sanctions.  
Our investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Section 10 of DriveWealths terms and conditions refers to payment and settlement  
which Mr I agreed to when he signed up to use the businesss services.
DriveWealth used its right to liquidate Mr Is shares, when Oasis went into liquidation. 
He cant comment upon the actions of DriveWealth because its not regulated by the 
FCA. He can only consider the actions of the business. 
Hes unable to comment upon the Russian issue.   
Mr I reiterated that section 10, which gives DriveWealth the power, is a bad financial 
conduit. He also said that any abusive (I think he may mean unfair) clauses are void even if 
signed and agreed to  this is the law, and beyond anyones agreement. He didnt ask for 
any money, and the business is using the word dividends to cover fraud. He just wants his 
warrants and if he doesnt get them, hell seek financial loss. So, its better for the business 
to do this sooner rather than later. He may seek advice from/refer his complaint to the EU 
Consumer Agency if his complaint isnt upheld and the correct information used. 
As well as wanting a formal decision, Mr I also wanted the following questions forwarded to 
the ombudsman:
If DriveWealth is not regulated by the FCA, where are his rights? It means he has no 
rights. So why is the investigator using its terms and conditions to formulate his 
arguments?
The investigator (initially) quoted section 10 of the terms and conditions with a 
material error. Because the investigator has done so on numerous occasions, he (Mr 
I) has lost faith. The investigator (initially) missed the following wording:i.For our protection and to satisfy your obligations which is referring to 
their right to liquidate his assets, but he didnt break any of his 
obligations.  
ii.We may, in our discretion and without prior demand or notice.
iii. The words and, between protection and to satisfy has the 
cumulative meaning. 
The unsupported warrants cant be liquidated. And if they were liquidated, it means 
the warrants werent unsupported. 
The investigator confirmed that there wasnt an oversight on his part. He didnt (initially) 
include For our protection and to satisfy your obligations in his quote because he only 
referred to what he thought was key. Hes not saying that Mr I breached his obligations with 
the business, but DriveWealth (trading partner of the business) was entitled to liquidate his 
assets and hasnt done anything wrong by doing so, as part of the agreement. Nevertheless, 
his view remains as before. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr I says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably such that the complaint should be upheld and 
his warrants returned, and/or compensation paid.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Is 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address/answer every single point/question raised. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him, and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I make clear from the outset that this is a complaint against the business, not DriveWealth. 
Therefore, regardless of DriveWealths status  which I will discuss below  I dont comment 
upon its actions in this decision, in terms of whether (or not) it has behaved reasonably.  
I understand that DriveWealth Holdings Inc, wholly owns Drive Wealth LLC amongst other 
subsidiaries, which is a third-party broker to the business, and executes all trades 
transmitted by it  that might explain why the business refers to DriveWealth as its trading 
partner. Im also aware that Mr I agreed to the terms and conditions set by DriveWealth 
when he entered into the agreement with the business. In the circumstances, and on balance, that of itself doesnt mean that the business is 
responsible for the actions of DriveWealth, which seem to be (in the main) the target of much 
of Mr Is unhappiness.   
I also note that DriveWealth is a licenced clearing broker-dealer registered in the US  with 
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and a member of the US 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc (FINRA)  that specialises in buying and selling 
securities online such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. 
This might explain why  notwithstanding my earlier point about why Im only considering the 
actions of the business  that the business, from the outset, made clear that Mr I was unable 
to find any resolution by complaining to our service about DriveWealth.  
I note that DriveWealth is in fact regulated by a US regulatory authority, not the industry 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)  here in the UK. In other words, it 
isnt a financial business that our service can consider a complaint against, because its 
regulated by a US regulatory body. 
Whether (or not) Mr I can use his legal rights under the EU to pursue DriveWealth isnt a 
question I can answer, or need to answer, in order to consider and reach a decision in this 
case against the business, which is regulated by the FCA. 
In other words, its not for me to determine or advise Mr I upon points of international law, 
and he may want to consult a specialist lawyer if he wants a definitive answer on the issue. 
Its for this reason, in response to Mr Is query, I also dont think I need to consider the legal 
meaning of s.10 of the terms and conditions as set out by DriveWealth.
The above notwithstanding, in this instance, the business isnt responsible for Oasis 
declaring bankruptcy, being delisted from the NYSE, and having its shares suspended. On 
balance, Im satisfied that this matter  although arguably giving rise to the complaint  is 
wholly outside the businesss control.  
In the circumstances I note that Mr I was given warrants, in place of the suspended shares, 
that could be sold in due course, as long as there was a buyer. But that didnt of itself mean 
that these could be traded in the same way that shares could, and they could only be 
purchased at a specific price. In any case, this doesnt mean that the business has done 
anything wrong, as this is primarily down to the agreement Mr I had with DriveWealth. 
Therefore, I dont think the business is responsible for refunding/resupplying the warrants, 
even if I thought the business had done something else wrong. 
I also understand that the delay referred to by Mr I was due to DriveWealth not being able to 
find a buyer sooner because the warrants had little value. But whether or not DriveWealth 
behaved reasonably, could legitimately hold the warrants or was covering up a crime, arent 
issues I can consider in this case, or hold the business responsible for. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that the business caused delays or behaved inappropriately in relation 
to the sale of the warrants  which based on the evidence seems fundamentally to have 
been out of its hands.  
Overall, the business acted in the way it was entitled to and wasnt required to get involved 
in the sale of the warrants. I note Mr I agreed to the terms and conditions when he opened 
the account. But, if he didnt read the terms and conditions, (purportedly) enabling 
DriveWealth to do what it did, thats not something I can hold against the business. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the business in this instance needed to obtain Mr Is authority before 
DriveWealth could deal with the warrants/liquidate his account. As I mentioned above, thats 
not something I can hold the busines responsible for. Its also not for me to look into why the business entered into this sort of 
agreement/arrangement with its trading partner. A business is entitled, in the reasonable 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to decide who it does business with and on 
what basis  its not for this service to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
I understand that the word Dividend was used in Mr Is trading account because it was the 
only available category that DriveWealth was able to use. I dont think the businesss 
explanation about what it says happened is unreasonable. Whatever the explanation, I cant 
say that the business has done anything wrong by accepting the payment in this instance 
and not refusing to do so. Im aware that Mr I wasnt paid dividends into his account, and the 
business receiving this money in the way it has, hasnt caused Mr I any financial loss. 
I appreciate what Mr I says about emails from the business being categorised as spam. 
This might be something that he needs to speak to his email provider about and/or 
reconfigure his email settings but its not something I can blame the business for. 
I appreciate Mr I will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman