DRN-3684381
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt give her all the money she 
withdrew from her account.
What happened
Ms A wanted to withdraw £1,000 in cash from her account on 21 May 2022 and went into a 
branch. She says she was given money in a sealed envelope and when she got home and 
counted it that there was only £700. She wants Halifax to credit the difference to her 
account. And she says that his happened before in January 2022 but feels it is too late to 
dispute that now.
Halifax said that it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be making a refund. It provided 
information to show that the money was dispensed. And that when the machine was 
balanced there were no discrepancies that could account for this difference.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The journal entries and the 
balancing reports suggested that the money was dispensed correctly by an automated 
machine at the counter. The automated machines were short by £20 and £120 when they 
were balanced. If the £300 hadnt been dispensed hed have expected to see a surplus. And 
as the branch was open plan he didnt think that the money had been lost or taken before it 
was put into an envelope by a cashier.
Ms A who is represented in this complaint didnt agree. The representative pointed out that 
the machines didnt balance exactly. One was negative by £20 and the other by £120. But 
this was the position since the machine balanced and clearly shows that there was a 
discrepancy. He didnt think wed taken this into account. And there was no explanation of 
where the £300 had gone. The branch was open plan, but he couldnt see through the 
counter or go behind the counter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
There is a factual dispute and Ill be weighing all the evidence about this in coming to my 
decision.
My understanding is that the representative was present with Ms A in branch when the 
withdrawal was made at 11:29 that morning. They then went to a retailer and were both at 
home at about 14:15 to 14:30 when the envelope was opened, and the money counted. So, 
he provides direct testimony both of what happened and that as agreed this was reported as 
soon as possible. There hasnt been a complaint about an earlier disputed withdrawal in 
January 2022 so I cant look into the circumstances of that or give it any weight in my 
assessment.
Halifax has provided details of the transaction and the till and machine balances. It has 
provided information from the branch manager about the investigation into what happened 
and the checks that were made. And it has provided supporting documentation in response 
to our questions. That is the information wed typically expect to see in a case like this and it 
says this supports its position on the complaint.
I note from its records that the automated machine at the till position used for this withdrawal 
was the one with a shortfall of £20. That means as the representative says that over the 
period since it was last balanced that machine was £20 short. So, taking into account all the 
transactions it paid out too much. As our investigator has mentioned it I note that the other 
machine was short by £120. Halifax says it hasnt had any other similar complaints to this 
one. And I appreciate that this complaint is about not receiving enough money  not that too 
much had been paid out or credited. Id be looking for a surplus of cash over what was 
expected to be there when it was balanced to account for this.
Halifax explains that the automated note machine was previously balanced in March 2022 
and has provided evidence that following this dispute the machines were checked under 
dual control. This was when the branch was closed, and the notes were counted. The 
balance logs were signed by two members of staff on 6 June 2022 and Ive seen supporting 
documentation.
I need to balance all the factors. I note the position of Ms A including that no money could 
have gone missing from the envelope after it had been given to her and theres no mistake 
about what she says happened. I also note that the journal entry shows the money was 
dispensed. Its not impossible that the machine in error only dispensed £700 to Ms A. And 
that the resultant surplus cash in the machine over what should have been dispensed was 
offset by giving too much money to other customers. Shortfalls are clearly possible given the 
balancing positions of the machines here. And I also note the period since the machine in 
question was last balanced. But theres limited evidence to support for example that such a 
surplus was offset based on all the records Ive seen, and I dont think thats the most likely 
explanation. And I see less chance that the money went missing somehow in what Halifax 
says is an open plan branch and between the machine and being put into the envelope. I 
note the money wasnt manually counted by either the cashier, as thats not a requirement, 
or by Ms A in branch.
Having considered everything I dont have sufficient here to find it most likely that Halifax has 
made a mistake and to require it to do anything further. I can appreciate how disappointed 
Ms A and her representative will be about this.
If Ms A doesnt accept my decision she remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman