DRN-3115371
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) 
decision to terminate his income protection insurance claim.
What happened
Mr D had an income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by L&G. 
This would pay a benefit to Mr D if he was unable to work due to illness or injury. 
Mr D made a claim which was accepted in 2013. L&G reviewed the claim at certain intervals. 
Mr D was made redundant by his employer and so L&G made payment directly to Mr D. 
In 2019, L&G reviewed the claim again and arranged a number of assessments, psychiatric 
examinations and reports and concluded Mr D no longer met the definition of incapacity and 
terminated his claim. Mr D disagreed and made a complaint. Unhappy with the response to 
his complaint, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that L&G hadnt unfairly terminated the 
claim. Mr D disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Dr Ws report doesnt clearly address the issue of returning to work, it sits on the 
fence. 
It diagnoses recurrent depressive disorder which could be dysthymia or persistent 
depressive disorder.
The treatment for dysthymia is the same as for severe depression.
He has had two severe periods of depression since 2019 requiring ongoing treatment 
and support.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. When terminating a claim, the burden of proof shifts to 
the insurer to show the definition of incapacity is no longer met. And so its up to L&G to 
demonstrate, through medical evidence, that Mr D no longer meets the definition of 
incapacity.
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
Own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
If following the start of benefit payments under the policy a disabled member is no 
longer in employment the incapacity definition will change to suited occupation.
Suited occupation is defined as follows:
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury 
so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which we consider appropriate to 
his experience, training or education. 
For the purposes of this definition an occupation will not be considered to be 
inappropriate to an insured members experience, training or education on the 
grounds that:
(i) the pay from such occupation may be lower than that paid to the 
insured member prior to the deferred period in relation to his own job 
or lower than the amount of members benefit, or 
(ii) such occupation lacks the status or seniority associated with the 
insured members own job.
For this definition own job means the essential duties required of the insured 
member in his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
I will now set out the key medical evidence relied on by L&G to decide whether it has shown 
Mr D no longer meets the definition of incapacity.
Key medical evidence 
In 2019, L&G arranged for a transferrable skills analysis report to be completed. The 
report concluded Mr D would be able to work in alternative roles which were suitable 
for him based on his experience, qualifications and skills. 
L&G also arranged for an examination and report by a consultant psychiatrist, Dr F. 
This report concluded Mr Ds absence was consistent with work-related stress rather 
than a mental illness and that Mr D was fit to return to work.
Mr D arranged for a further examination and report by a different consultant 
psychiatrist, Dr B, who concluded his symptoms were consistent with severe 
depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. And that Mr D wasnt fit for work.
L&G asked Dr F to review and comment on Dr Bs report. Dr F said Dr Bs report was 
based on self-reporting and the diagnosis hadnt been supported with reference to 
diagnostic criteria. Dr F said Mr Ds symptoms were stress-related and the reported 
barriers to work werent medical. 
L&G arranged for a further independent report with another consultant psychiatrist, 
who Ill refer to as Dr W. Mr D met with Dr W in February 2020 and a report was 
prepared shortly afterwards. But Mr D didnt provide consent to release the report to 
L&G until October 2021.
Dr Ws report concluded that although there were barriers to Mr Ds return to work as 
a result of being absent from work for so long, he had the intellectual ability, practical skills and psychological strengths to resume paid employment. Dr W said he didnt 
find a current serious depressive order that would significantly impair Mr Ds ability to 
concentrate, plan or carry through tasks. He acknowledged that Mr D might find a 
return to work too stressful and made some recommendations for specialist support 
to return to work. 
L&G reviewed the report from Dr W and maintained that its decision to terminate the 
claim was the correct one and as Mr D was no longer employed, it would not 
consider any further medical evidence from Mr D. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think L&G unfairly terminated Mr Ds claim. I say 
this because it has arranged independent examinations and has demonstrated that it fully 
considered the medical evidence provided. It has asked Dr F to comment on Dr Bs report 
but has also arranged a further report from Dr W. Both Dr F and Dr W conclude that Mr D is 
fit to work. Dr Ws report addresses Mr Ds barriers to work and acknowledges the difficulties 
Mr D might face when returning to work.  
Im satisfied that L&G fairly relied on Dr F and Dr Ws reports and also arranged a skills 
analysis report to demonstrate Mr D would be able to undertake other roles. L&G explained 
that a suited occupation wouldnt have to be of the same level of seniority or pay. And also 
asked the specialist to review the report again when Mr D appealed. The specialist 
maintained its conclusions that Mr D would be able to do a number of roles based on his 
skills and experience but also factored in that Mr D may need some re-training. 
Mr D has made a number of very detailed submissions all of which I have considered 
carefully. I understand and appreciate the points Mr D has made but the policy will only pay 
out if he is unable to work due to illness or injury as defined above. The policy isnt designed 
to pay out if Mr D is unable to find a job of the same seniority or pay. 
In addition, the policy doesnt automatically pay out if an illness is diagnosed. The definition 
says Mr D would have to be unable to work due to that illness and this would be determined 
by medical evidence and his level of function. The medical evidence outlined above 
suggests that Mr D is fit to work. 
Although Mr D has said he has had further depressive episodes since 2019, he is no longer 
employed and as the claim was terminated in 2019, he no longer has any cover under the 
policy. Mr D says Dr Ws report doesnt address his ability to work but I think it clearly 
concludes that illness isnt preventing Mr D from returning to work. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I dont think L&G unfairly terminated his claim and so I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman