DRN-2540650
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the refusal of his claim under his mobile phone insurance policy 
with Telefonica Insurance S.A.
What happened
Mr Ss phone was stolen in the early hours of 10 October 2020. He told Telefonica that he 
had some friends at his house and there were two people he did not know. In the early hours 
he realised his car had been stolen and then when he tried to find his phone to call the police 
about that, he realised his phone must also have been stolen. I understand his car was 
recovered but the phone was not found. 
Mr S went into his network providers store on 12 October 2020 to report the theft, ask for a 
replacement SIM and to submit a claim under this policy. While at the store, he called 
Telefonica using the stores phone.
Telefonica says Mr S told it that he had been provided with a new SIM card by the network 
provider. Telefonica told Mr S it needed more information and that Mr S would need to report 
the theft of the phone to the police and provide the crime reference number for this and the 
reference number in relation to his car. He had, I understand reported the theft of the car to 
the police on the day it was stolen but did not report the theft of the phone. Mr S was not 
happy with the requests by Telefonica but did subsequently provide a crime reference 
numbers in relation to his phone. 
Telefonica then said Mr Ss airtime provider provided evidence that the SIM card had been 
taken out of the stolen phone on 11 October 2020 and put into another phone belonging to 
Mr S and had been used between the time of the theft and 12 October 2020 when Mr S  
reported the theft and got a replacement SIM card. As Telefonica says Mr S told it his SIM 
was in the phone when it was stolen, it asked Mr S for his latest itemised phone bill, so it 
could look at the numbers called using the phone. Mr S was not happy about being asked to 
provide this but I understand he did do so. 
Having received the details of those calls, Telefonica refused to meet the claim, as it says   
Mr S has provided inconsistent information and it cannot be sure the phone was stolen in the 
way he has claimed.
 
Mr S is very unhappy about the way the claim has been handled. He says he has been 
spoken to rudely and abruptly by Telefonicas representatives, and there were unnecessary 
delays. He wants his claim to be met.  
Telefonica agreed that one of its call-handler did not deal with one call in the way it would 
have expected and it says it has fed back about this. However, it maintains its refusal of the 
claim. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld. He 
said Mr S had implied that his SIM card was in the stolen phone at the time of the theft and 
therefore Telefonica is entitled to further evidence to support the claim. 
Mr S does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr S is also unhappy that he has still been paying for a phone, which he doesnt have and 
has been paying for the insurance. He asks whether he will get this refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a basic principle of insurance that it is for a claimant to establish their claim. This means 
that Mr S has to provide sufficient information and evidence to prove, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the phone insured under this policy was stolen as claimed. As part of the 
evidence that would support such a claim, mobile phone insurers usually expect a consumer 
to have the phone blacklisted as soon as reasonably possible, ask for a theft to be reported 
to the police and other reasonable evidence. As there were no apparent witnesses to the 
theft, Mr S is effectively asking Telefonica to take his word for what happened. It is important 
therefore that there is nothing to cast doubt on his word. 
I have listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr S and Telefonica. I am satisfied that 
Telefonica made reasonable and relevant enquiries and that Mr S provided conflicting 
information in response to those enquiries, which means it has not acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim. I will explain why Ive come to that conclusion.  
Mr S went into a store to report the matter on 12 October 2020. He was put through to 
Telefonica using a store phone and when asked for a contact phone number and if he 
needed a replacement SIM, Mr S confirmed that he had been provided with a new SIM and 
telephone number by the store. He also said he had no phone handset to use though at that 
time.
In a subsequent investigation call Mr S confirmed he had not put any other SIM cards into 
the stolen phone and he had password protection on it. He also said that on the night of the 
theft, he had to borrow his friends phone to report his car stolen, as he didnt have use of 
another phone at the time. Mr S also told Telefonica hed had to get another SIM card from 
the airtime provider to be able to use an old mobile phone.  
It is clear from these calls that Mr S reported that the SIM card was in the stolen phone when 
it was stolen and he hadnt had use of another phone. 
Mr S also apparently reported the theft of the vehicle to the police as soon as he realised it 
was missing, but didnt report the phone had been stolen at the same time. Telefonica 
queried why Mr S did not report the theft of the phone when he reported the theft of the car.
Mr S says he was upset at the theft of his car and his head was all over the place. Mr S 
was extremely reluctant to discuss the theft of the car and initially refused to provide the 
crime reference number for the car theft. Mr S says the theft of the car was irrelevant to the 
loss of his phone. However, I can understand why Telefonica had further questions about 
this, given Mr Ss car had also been stolen and possibly by the same person. The police 
report on the car theft could provide evidence relevant to the mobile phone theft. These were 
therefore reasonable enquiries. 
And I dont find Mr Ss explanation about why he didnt report the theft of the phone at the 
same time very convincing.Telefonica later told Mr S that it had evidence the SIM had been used after the time of the 
theft and so also asked for an itemised bill from him, so it could see which numbers were 
called. Mr S was again reluctant to provide this but I understand he did subsequently do so.
It was only after Telefonica told Mr S that it had evidence the SIM card had been used after 
the time of the theft, that Mr S said he in fact regularly swapped the SIM card between the 
stolen phone and another phone. Mr S said he had different apps on each phone that he 
liked to use and some numbers werent on his insured phone. Mr S says he had put the SIM 
in the old phone at the time of the theft and was using the wifi on the insured phone.
Telefonica discussed with Mr S that two calls made after the time of the theft were to taxi 
companies. Mr S said he was calling a taxi for his friend, as her phone was out of credit. 
Again this is inconsistent with Mr S previously saying he didnt have an alternative phone to 
use, until after he got a replacement SIM on 12 October 2020 and having to borrow his 
friends phone to call the police.  
I also note that in another call complaining about how long the claim was taking, Mr S 
mentioned he was having to use a different, much older model phone than the phone he 
later said he regularly used as a second phone and in which the SIM card was used after the 
theft. 
Mr S has argued that it doesnt really matter which phone the SIM was in; and he doesnt 
remember saying the SIM was in the stolen phone but he was not in a fit state to deal with 
the matter at the time. Again I do not find this convincing. Telefonica asked Mr S clear 
questions and Im satisfied from listening to those calls that he understood what he was 
being asked. Im not persuaded that Mr Ss answers in those initial calls with Telefonica 
should be disregarded in favour of his later testimony.
Given this, I am not persuaded that I can fairly ask Telefonica to meet the claim. I also 
consider it dealt with the investigation in reasonable time and it was entitled to make the 
enquiries it did. 
Mr S has also alleged that he was treated very badly and spoken to rudely during several 
calls with Telefonica. There is one call during which Telefonica says he was spoken over at 
times and it has fed back to that call-handler. All the calls I have listened to were dealt with 
professionally and courteously. The call-handlers were asking questions of Mr S that he did 
not want to answer but that is not in itself rude or unreasonable. 
Mr S has also queried his contract payments, since he made this claim. I understand, he 
entered into a contract for the phone and airtime with the airtime provider, not Telefonica. I 
am not therefore able to comment on those payments, as this decision is only about 
Telefonicas handling of the insurance claim.  
The insurance policy would normally cover any replacement phone provided under it, so it 
would not necessarily automatically come to an end when a claim is made but if Mr S no 
longer wants it, he can ask to cancel it with effect from October 2020 and ask Telefonica to 
refund the premiums. As this has not been raised before, I cant make any direction about 
this issue in this decision and Mr S will have to bring a new complaint if he is unhappy with 
Telefonicas response about this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman