DRN-3190198
The complaint
Mr M complains that TenetConnect Limited through its Appointed Representative, Tanner 
Financial Advice, gave him unsuitable advice in respect of a personal pension plan (PPP) 
switch. He also complains about Tenet facilitating a transfer of his Defined Benefit 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a PPP.
All references to Tenet will include all actions of Tanner Financial Advice. All references to 
Mr M will include submissions by his representative.
What happened
Mr M complains about two transfers  one from an OPS to a PPP (the OPS transfer) and 
another from a PPP to another PPP (the PPP switch).
PPP switch
In terms of the PPP switch, Mr M and his wife met with the Tenet adviser (the adviser) in 
August and October 2012 to discuss their retirement planning needs. At the time of the 
advice Mr M had built up a pension fund of £20,304 in a Prudential PPP. 
The fact find was dated 16 August 2012 and this recorded that Mr M wanted to see if he 
could achieve a better return than his current Prudential PPP. The adviser made a 
recommendation to transfer Mr Ms existing PPP from Prudential to AXA Wealth.
In the suitability letter dated 6 October 2012 the adviser said he strongly believed the 
transfer was right for Mr M because, amongst other things, the Axa PPP offered flexibility of 
fund choice and a variety of funds to invest in. On 3 October 2012, the adviser signed the 
application form for the PPP switch. And the transfer of the funds was completed at the end 
of October 2012.
In the fact find, the adviser referred to Mr Ms OPS entitlement. In a handwritten note, the 
adviser said he would contact the OPS administrators for more information about this 
pension. The Tenet adviser wasnt qualified to provide advice on defined benefit pension 
scheme transfers. So, during the advice process, he introduced Mr M to another adviser 
who worked for a firm Ill refer to as PS and who was qualified to provide this type of advice.
OPS transfer
Mr M had been an active member of his former employers scheme since 1993. As a 
member of a defined benefit scheme he was entitled to guaranteed benefits at the schemes 
NRA of 65. In September 2012, Mr M authorised PS to act on his behalf in obtaining 
information about the OPS entitlement.
Mr M was sent a letter dated 21 September 2012 from the PS adviser in which he introduced 
himself and explained the services he would be offering. The PS adviser began by saying 
that I am pleased to confirm that we have now received your signed letter of authority via 
[the Tenet advisers name] at Tanner Financial Advice. Under the heading Why have we 
been asked to review your pension plans? the following was noted:
It is important that our service works well within the FSA [now the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA or the regulator)] rules and regulations;
As such, we accept sole responsibility for providing you with the best pension advice. 
One of the FSA rules surrounding this advice is that no third party can be involved in 
our advice process;
If you have any questions about the information or advice that we provide to you in 
our reports, then you should contact us directly for guidance. You must NOT ask our 
introducer as they are not authorized by us to form any part of our advice service;
Any guidance or involvement provided by a third party is therefore not part of our 
advice service, and we will not accept any responsibility or liability for any advice, 
direction, or other comments given to you by any third party.
The letter went on to say that: At the end of our review, and after any changes  we have 
advised or recommended are made to your pensions are complete, your existing advisor will 
then be in a position to take over the servicing of your pension plans and provide you with 
the ongoing advice and service relating to these. PS then issued a suitability letter dated 
9 October 2012.
This letter noted that the cash equivalent transfer value from Mr Ms OPS was £64,011. The 
PS adviser said it wasnt recommending the transfer of Mr Ms OPS to a PPP because the 
critical yield calculation of 10.5% per year, was higher than the investment returns that he 
(the PS adviser) would normally recommend for a transfer. 
However, the PS adviser told Mr M in the letter that he (Mr M) could proceed on an insistent 
client basis. This meant that despite the recommendation being not to transfer, PS would 
still facilitate the transfer on Mr Ms behalf. Mr M decided to transfer his OPS benefits to his 
Axa PPP that had been set up by the Tenet adviser. The funds were transferred into the Axa 
PPP in January 2013. On 16 October 2015, Mr M cashed-in the whole of his Axa PPP.
In February 2019 Mr M made a claim via the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) for losses he said he suffered as a result of the advice he received about the OPS 
transfer. PS itself was an Appointed Representative of another firm. This firm went into 
Creditors Voluntary Liquidation in May 2016 and ceased to be regulated by the FCA in 
November 2016.
In his application to the FSCS Mr M said he had received advice from Tenet about the PPP 
switch. In respect of the OPS, Mr M said Tenet had advised him hed get a better return on 
his (OPS) pension if he transferred his pension benefits. But that he (Mr M) hadnt wanted to 
transfer and he didnt need to consolidate his pensions. Mr M said in his FSCS application: 
The benefit that was sold to me was that moving to the SIPP [the Axa PPP] and investing in 
the Axa stocks and shares I could have my pension money working much harder for me.
In his FSCS claim form Mr M said he became aware in September 2018 that there was a 
problem with the advice he received about the OPS transfer. Under the question asking him 
to describe the advice he received from PS, Mr M said the following:
I only ever dealt with [the Tenet adviser] throughout the process. I was introduced to [the 
Tenet adviser] through ex-workers in [his former employers name] who recommended him 
through a [social media] group. [The Tenet adviser] came to my home on a couple of 
occasions, looking back I feel the meetings were rushed and I had no time to absorb any 
information or read any paperwork. [The Tenet adviser] advised me to transfer my Prudential pension to Axa Wealth. He also advised me to look at transferring my [OPS] so that I could 
have all of my funds together. He passed my details to [PS] for this. I never met with them or 
spoke to them. [The Tenet adviser] just told me to sign the paperwork that was sent out by 
[PS] and send it back. As I had no prior financial experience I was not aware that there was 
any issue with what they were doing.
Mr M confirmed the firm who gave him advice about the OPS transfer was PS. And he 
received a total award of £50,000 for the transfer advice he received from PS. This was less 
than the calculated loss of £100,000 but due to the FSCS cap on pension advice transfers 
that applied, this meant Mr M could only receive £50,000.
Mr M complained to Tenet in February 2019 about both the PPP switch and the OPS 
transfer. In respect of the OPS transfer, Mr M said that Tenet had facilitated this.
In terms of the PPP switch, Tenet upheld Mr Ms complaint. However, it said that Mr M 
hadnt been financially disadvantaged by this advice as it said his pension would have been 
less if hed stayed with his Prudential PPP. Tenet didnt address the issue of the OPS 
transfer. But following the referral of the complaint to our service, Tenet told us that it wasnt 
responsible for the advice Mr M received from PS, which was a separate firm. So, Tenet said 
it could not be held liable for any losses that happened as a result of this advice.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. In respect of the PPP switch, he said that 
Tenet needed to recalculate the redress in accordance with a redress formula he provided. 
He also said that Tenet should pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its unsuitable advice. However, in terms of the OPS transfer advice, our investigator didnt 
think Tenet was responsible for the advice Mr M received from PS. He also concluded that 
Tenet wasnt the cause of losses Mr M suffered as a result of this transfer. So, he didnt 
recommend upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Tenet agreed to the investigators recommendations. Mr M disagreed with the investigators 
view in terms of the OPS transfer. Specifically, he didnt agree that Tenet wasnt responsible 
for causing the loss as a result of its introduction. He also didnt think Tenet had acted in line 
with its regulatory obligations. So, he asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am broadly in agreement with the recommendations made by the investigator. But before I 
explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr M and 
Tenet have about this matter. Both parties and their representatives, have provided very 
detailed submissions to support their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully 
all the information that has been provided to this service in respect of this complaint. 
However, I hope neither party will take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches 
either, thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to 
decide if Tenet has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any 
financial losses for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant 
law, regulation and best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not 
bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened. PPP switch
As neither party is disputing Tenets liability and both have now agreed that the redress 
formula recommended by the investigator is suitable to resolve matters, Im not going to 
focus my decision on this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. 
For completeness, I will just say that I agree that the advice Tenet gave to Mr M to switch his 
Prudential PPP to an Axa PPP was not suitable. As a result of the advice, Mr M was subject 
to additional and unnecessary fees that were a direct result of the transfer. 
Tenet has sought to argue that Mr M made things worse by cashing-in his pension early. 
However, despite what Tenet has said, the fact of the matter is that without its advisers 
unsuitable advice, Mr M would not have incurred additional and unnecessary fees as a result 
of the switch. This would have impacted on investment growth particularly in the early years. 
This is something that would have been avoided if Mr M hadnt received unsuitable advice.
Initially Tenet based its calculations on the loss as it would have been by comparing the 
value of the Prudential PPP and Axa PPP as each would have been if held until 2019. 
However, in October 2015 Mr M just turned 55 years old. And he decided to cash-in his 
policy early due to health reasons. I dont think these circumstances would have changed if 
hed stayed with his previous provider. So, I think its likely he would still have cashed in his 
policy at age 55 years old which was in 2015. 
Im satisfied the redress Ive set out below will, as far as possible, put Mr M in a position he 
would have been but for the unsuitable advice he received from Tenet.
OPS transfer
Turning now to the OPS transfer, I should note at this stage that introducing is not a 
regulated activity and I would not normally be able to consider actions related to this service. 
But as Ive communicated to both parties, I think the introducing in this case was ancillary 
to a regulated activity carried out by Tenet in the subsequent arranging of the investments. 
And this is why I am able to consider the actions related to this particular non-regulated 
activity. Ive seen no further information that would change my mind on this decision so I will 
continue to look at the merits of this case. 
Mr M has said that Tenet recommended the transfer during the appointment. However, from 
what I can see the fact find indicates that they discussed his options, and the advantages 
and disadvantages of transferring versus staying in the scheme. I dont think this amounted 
to advice and I can see that the Tenet adviser did recommend that Mr M receive advice from 
someone who was suitable to provide the advice for the OPS transfer.
The introduction was made subsequently, and I think, on balance, Mr M understood the 
reason for it. The fact that Tenet benefited from the ongoing servicing of Mr Ms Axa PPP to 
which the OPS funds were paid, the fact that the meetings were held in Mr Ms home with 
the Tenet adviser, and the fact the latter remained Mr Ms point of contact has little or no 
bearing on whether Tenet advised him in my view.
On the issue of fees, its accepted that Tenet received the benefit of managing Mr Ms Axa 
PPP. But from what I can see, PS received the majority of commission from the OPS 
transfer. Clearly, PS did receive ongoing commission from the managing of Mr Ms PPP but 
this doesnt prove Tenet has done anything wrong in terms of the introduction. This is 
particularly the case as Tenet was already managing the Axa PPP for Mr M and providing ongoing advice to him because of the PPP switch. So, Tenets services to Mr M werent 
dependent on the OPS transfer in any way.
PS clearly did advise Mr M. Hes confirmed that this advice was provided to him in the 
application he made to the FSCS. Hes said that he never actually met with the PS adviser. 
But that doesnt change the fact that PS was the adviser regarding the OPS transfer. And 
this advice may have been inadequate, which is why the FSCS provided compensation to 
Mr M. However, that doesnt mean I can hold Tenet responsible for advice of another 
separate regulated firm simply because its adviser made the introduction. Its clear from 
Mr Ms FSCS claim form that he (Mr M) was aware of the division of responsibilities. This 
was clear enough for him to identify he had a claim against PS when it went into liquidation.
Mr M says that if he had received suitable advice about his OPS he would not have 
transferred. But it was entirely PSs responsibility to advise him on the transfer. Therefore, if 
his position is that suitable advice would have led to him not transferring, any loss arising 
from transfer is attributable to PS advice and actions following this advice. This is the view 
reached by the FSCS when it awarded Mr M compensation for the losses he suffered as a 
result of PSs actions.
Mr Ms representatives referred to breaches of regulatory duties. I consider that when Tenet 
introduced Mr M to PS in expectation that it would provide suitable advice, it made this 
introduction because PS had defined benefit pension transfer permissions, and Tenet did 
not. As Tenets adviser wasnt authorised to provide advice on OPS (defined benefit) 
transfers, I think that it was reasonable for him to refer Mr M to an OPS adviser. So, Im 
satisfied that this was discharging its regulatory duties to which Mr Ms representatives refer.
I also think that any loss would be attributable to PS advice, and not to the introduction as 
such. In other words, I dont consider Tenet was the cause of losses that resulted from the 
OPS transfer. It was the transfer advice and the subsequent actions of PS that led to Mr Ms 
loss, not the introduction made by Tenet. 
I appreciate that Mr M thinks more could have been done to prevent him from transferring 
given the advice he received from PS. But Im not persuaded that this was the responsibility 
of the Tenet adviser given he had discharged his duty to only advise on an area he was 
qualified to act. In any event, it would seem contradictory to say on the one hand that Tenet 
couldnt advise on the OPS transfer, while on the other suggesting it should have identified 
faults in the advice of a separate, authorised firm, that was permitted to provide such advice.
All in all, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to attribute any of the loss to Tenets 
perceived failure to analyse the suitability of individual recommendations. Or to analyse 
wider issues with that firm simply because it made the introduction and managed the 
ongoing PPP to which those pension funds were paid. 
Whilst I know the Tenet adviser offered to help complete Mr Ms paperwork, which seemed 
to be in reference the paperwork sent to him by PS, I dont think this led to Mr Ms losses. 
This is because by this point, Mr M had already decided to transfer having received advice 
from PS.
Mr M has referred to other decisions with this service, but as he may appreciate I need to 
decide each matter on the merits of the particular case. In this case, I dont find that Tenet is 
responsible for the losses that resulted from the OPS transfer. And I dont consider it has 
acted unreasonably or unfairly by introducing Mr M to a suitably qualified firm to provide 
advice on the OPS transfer. Therefore, Im not upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice about the PPP switch from 
Prudential to Axa.
What must TenetConnect Limited do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, TenetConnect Limited must:
Compare the performance of the portion of Mr Ms pension resulting from the transfer 
of PPP only with the notional value if it had remained with the PPP previous provider. 
If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If 
the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
TenetConnect Limited should add interest as set out below.
As TenetConnect Limited is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan 
as it no longer exists, it should pay that amount direct to him. The total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual marginal rate of tax 
at the point he cashed-in his policy. Its common for lump sum withdrawals from a 
pension to be taxed at an emergency rate, meaning that its possible (although not 
certain) that some of the tax might have been reclaimable from HMRC at the end of 
the tax year. TenetConnect Limited should take this into account when determining 
the marginal rate of tax that would apply on the additional portion of Mr Ms pension 
representing the loss amount, asking for appropriate evidence from Mr M.
When Mr M cashed-in his pension he would have been entitled to take a tax free 
lump sum, so a reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation at 
Mr Ms actual marginal rate of tax at that time.
TenetConnect Limited should pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect Limited deducts income 
tax from the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. TenetConnect 
Limited should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Axa Wealth 
Personal 
Pension PlanNo longer in 
forceNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider 
PrudentialDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held on 
16 October 
20158% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional ValueThis is the value of Mr M's pension had it remained with the previous provider until the end 
date. TenetConnect Limited should request that the previous provider calculate this value. 
Any additional sum paid into the Axa Personal Pension Plan should be added to the 
notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Axa Personal Pension Plan should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TenetConnect Limited totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above under Fair compensation.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman