DRN-1995944
 
The complaint
Mr G and Ms K complain about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline Mr Gs 
claim under his private medical insurance policy. 
Mr G is also unhappy with the length of time AXA took to assess his claim.  
What happened
Mr G and Ms K hold a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA.
Mr G made a claim under his policy for a referral to a cardiologist, but AXA said the claim 
wasnt covered. At first, AXA said this was because Mr Gs policy didnt cover routine 
screening. AXA later said the claim wasnt covered because it was for cholesterol, which it 
considered to be a chronic condition. 
Unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and said he didnt think Mr Gs claim 
was covered under his policy with AXA. Mr G didnt agree so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The level of cover provided under Mr G and Ms Ks private medical insurance policy isnt 
unlimited. Like all insurance policies, cover is subject to terms, conditions and exclusions.
While Mr G is, of course, entitled to seek whatever investigations, monitoring or treatment he 
and his doctors feel is appropriate, AXA isnt necessarily responsible for paying the costs of 
these.
Mr Gs policy provides cover for the cost of certain medical services which are needed to 
diagnose, relieve or cure acute medical conditions. But treatment for chronic conditions is 
covered only in very specific circumstances. A chronic condition is defined to include a 
disease, illness or injury that needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups or tests. Mr Gs policy also doesnt cover routine preventative 
examinations, check-ups or screenings, or checks that a GP could carry out.   
Ive taken into account everything Mr G has told us and all the medical evidence he has 
provided. Having done so, I dont think the costs he is claiming for are covered under his 
policy. 
I understand Mr G says his referral to the cardiologist wasnt for cholesterol. Mr G has 
pointed out that a lipidologist treats cholesterol, and Mr G says the referral was for his heart. 
The medical evidence in this case says Mr G was referred to the cardiologist with elevated 
blood pressure and persistently elevated lipids. It was questioned whether Mr G needed 
ambulatory monitoring (letter dated 16 January 2020). A further letter dated 21 January 2020 
refers to seeking an opinion on the management of Mr Gs hypertension as well as regarding 
Mr Gs raised cholesterol. A third letter dated 24 January 2020 says a cardiologists opinion 
was sought to establish whether Mr G had essential hypertension and required 24-hour 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. 
Mr G visited the cardiologist on 2 March 2020 for what was described as an exercise 
echocardiogram and further review. The conclusion was that Mr G had a completely normal 
exercise echocardiogram and that he would not require any further screening for at [sic] 2 
 - 3 years.
A further letter dated 6 April 2020 says Mr G was referred to the cardiologist for investigation 
of his blood pressure. This letter goes on to say the referral was not directly to do with lipid 
management.  
Considering the references to persistently elevated lipids and raised cholesterol in the letters 
dated 16 January 2020 and 21 January 2020, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to 
conclude that Mr Gs referral was for cholesterol. The contemporaneous medical evidence, 
which Id generally consider more persuasive than evidence provided after the event, states 
that cholesterol was part of the reason for the referral. I dont think its unreasonable for AXA 
to consider raised cholesterol as a chronic condition under the policy. 
Even if I accept that the referral wasnt for high cholesterol, I dont think Mr Gs claim is 
covered under his policy anyway. His policy doesnt cover routine monitoring or checks that 
a GP or someone in a primary care setting could carry out. Mr G was referred to the 
cardiologist for 24-hour blood pressure monitoring. I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to 
conclude this is something his GP could have carried out. 
Mr Gs cardiologist instead carried out an echocardiogram, and I understand this wouldnt 
have been done unless the cardiologist thought it was necessary. However, there is no 
indication from the cardiologists report that the referral or the test was for anything other 
than routine monitoring or review, with further screening recommended in a few years time. 
Mr Gs policy doesnt cover routine check-ups or screenings. 
I understand Mr G has successfully made a claim for a similar referral in the past but what 
Im considering here is whether I think this claim is covered under the terms and conditions 
of his policy, and I dont think it is. 
Mr G says AXA has been difficult, defensive, obstructive and unhelpful. Ive considered 
AXAs claims notes and I dont agree. I also dont think AXA unreasonably delayed 
assessing the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman