DRN-3214825
The complaint
Mr F complains Rentokil Insurance Limited (Rentokil) has said it will not renew his policy.
What happened
Mr F took out his policy with Rentokil in the early 1980s. Between 2014 and 2020, he made 
a number of claims and referred concerns he had about the handling of the later claims to 
this service. They were considered by my colleague who issued a final decision in June 
2021.
This decision focuses on Mr Fs complaint about Rentokils decision to no longer offer him 
cover. In August 2021 it told him it wouldnt be renewing the policy as there were ongoing 
damp and condensation issues with his property. Mr F is unhappy with this, as the last time 
Rentokil had been at his property was in the summer of 2020. He arranged for the 
recommended extraction units to be fitted as recommended. 
Mr F tried to arrange an appointment for Rentokil to come out and carry out an inspection in 
his property, as he was sure there were no ongoing issues of damp or condensation. 
Rentokil declined to carry out the inspection. Mr F also thinks Rentokil was the reason an 
independent contractor declined to inspect his house.  Unhappy with this, Mr F made a 
complaint about the decision not to renew his policy. He was said Rentokil should offer a 
guarantee for the work carried out in summer 2020. Rentokil said it was a commercial 
decision not to offer any further cover, and it wouldnt offer a guarantee for the works already 
carried out. 
Mr F remained unhappy with Rentokils response and referred his complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt have any recommendations for 
Rentokil. Mr F didnt agree, and the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this is a matter Mr F feels very strongly about. And Im sorry my decision isnt 
going to be the one hes hoping for. The policy held with Rentokil was an annual policy. This 
means each year it was for Rentokil to decide if it would continue to offer cover. And it was 
entitled to make a commercial decision not to renew the policy.  
I can appreciate it would be upsetting for Mr F to find out Rentokil no longer intended to offer 
cover when it had done so for so many years. Hes said this is especially concerning when it 
hadnt been to his home for over a year. 
Ive considered the notice given to Mr F. Rentokil wrote to him on 10 August saying it didnt 
intend to offer cover for the next policy year. The policy was due to renew on 25 September. 
This meant Rentokil gave Mr F more than six weeks notice of its intention not to offer cover. 
Im satisfied this is a reasonable timeframe. I cant compel Rentokil to change a commercial 
decision its made, and I cant compel it to continue to offer cover to Mr F. 
I appreciate Mr F wants a guarantee for the works carried out, especially if he comes to sell 
his house. Hes worried about the impact not having a guarantee might have on potential 
buyers, However we cant compensate for something that hasnt happened or might not 
happen. Rentokil has said it can share the detail of the works it carried out with any potential 
buyers, as long as Mr F gives consent. I think this is reasonable. However, I wouldnt expect 
it to offer a guarantee for the works carried out over a year ago. 
In addition to this, Id expect any repair works carried out by an insurer to be an effective and 
lasting repair. I havent seen any indication the repairs carried out by Rentokil arent effective 
and lasting. As our investigator said, if Mr F was dissatisfied with the repairs carried out in 
2020 or in earlier years, he can complain to Rentokil. 
Finally, I havent seen anything to suggest Rentokil influenced the independent contractors 
decision not to carry out the inspection at Mr Fs house. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman