DRN-3234557
The complaint
Mr A complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy, following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with QIC which began on 17 July 2020. On 23 October 
2020 Mr A's car was stolen. He reported this to the police and made a claim under his policy.
QIC began its claim process and, as part of its validation process, found some anomalies in 
the information Mr A had provided when taking the policy. It decided to avoid policy from 
inception  this means to treat it as if it never existed. Mr A felt this was unfair and a 
complaint about it was brought to this service and dealt with under a separate reference to 
this one. That complaint was upheld in Mr A's favour. His policy was reinstated and QIC 
began to consider the claim.
As part of the validation checks for the claim QIC requested a copy of the police report. This 
described the "Modus Operandi" as:
Whilst victim was in the process of making a food delivery, X3 offenders travelling in 
a [car] pulled alongside [Mr A] . before fleeing with the victims car.
The police incident log summary also indicates that the theft happened while Mr A was 
delivering food.
Mr A's policy limits him to using his car for social domestic and pleasure purposes. This is 
defined on his certificate of motor insurance as:
use for social domestic and pleasure purposes, including travel between home and 
any permanent place of work. 
Based on the above QIC declined Mr A's claim, it said at the time of the incident he was 
using the car for "business use" and this isn't something the policy covered him for.
Mr A disputed this with QIC and said he had lied when initially reporting the claim. He said 
he had done this to cover the fact he had been conducting an extramarital affair with an ex-
girlfriend who was with him at the time of the incident. He changed the circumstances of the 
claim to the following version f events:
Mr A had sex toys in the boot of his car which he intended to use with his ex-girlfriend later in 
the day. His ex-girlfriend was in the car with him and they were on their way to a well-known 
fast-food restaurant. Before they reached the restaurant, he decided to pull over and get the 
toys from the boot so he could show them to his ex-girlfriend. It was at this time, he was 
approached by the three assailants who threatened him and stole the car from him. 
QIC took a statement from the lady that, Mr A says, was a passenger in the car at the time, 
which matched what Mr A had said in everything apart from one detail. She added that they 
had been to a fast-food restaurant and were now on their way to a different fast-food 
restaurant when the incident took place.
QIC considered the information and felt that it was more likely Mr A had been delivering food 
at the time of the incident, and so declined the claim. Mr A remained unhappy with this 
stance and so brought his complaint to this service. He provided the following evidence to 
our investigator to support that he was not delivering food at the time of the incident.
Mr A has a separate insurance policy with another insurer that provides him business use 
cover for food delivery on an ad hoc basis. The policy works by siting inactive in the 
background and the user logs on to start cover when they begin their shift. When the shift 
finishes the insurance finishes.
The provider has confirmed the insurance was taken out on 3 October 2020 to cover Mr As 
car that was later stolen. But the first shift was completed on 4 November 2020, with a 
different car.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr A's complaint in summary he said:
After considering all the information, he could understand why QIC was concerned 
about the credibility of Mr As changing testimony. And felt it had fairly relied on the 
available evidence when concluding he was most likely using his car for business 
purposes at the time of the claim. And so, it acted in line with the terms of the policy 
when deciding to decline Mr A's claim.
Mr A disagreed and raised the following points which Ive summarised:
He was frightened to his core having just been robbed by people armed with knives 
and a hammer.
Hed lied as the lady he was with wasn't meant to be there and he was thinking about 
the shame it would bring on him and his wife. He didn't want his society to know he 
was a cheating husband.
He thought if he said he was working his wife would not suspect anything. And 
doesn't think he should be punished by his insurance for lying to save his marriage.
He doesn't think it's reasonable to expect a person to give an accurate report when 
he's just been faced with a near death experience.
Hed provided evidence to show he had business cover in place which he could have 
used had he been working.
The difference in the statements of him and his ex-girlfriend, were down to the fact 
that he didn't remember, at the time, that they'd already been to a fast-food 
restaurant. His ex-girlfriend loves to have more and more food and the fact they were 
going from one fast-food restaurant to another fast-food restaurant does not mean an 
assumption can be drawn that he was delivering food.
Our investigator considered Mr A's points but didn't feel they changed things. And so, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr A that I won't be upholding his complaint, I'll explain.
I think its important to firstly explain if I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. 
Before getting into the details of the case I would like to express my sympathy to Mr A for the 
traumatic experience he has been through.
There is no dispute that Mr A's car was stolen, nor is there a dispute about how it was 
stolen, and how he conducts his personal life is of no relevance here and has no bearing on 
the outcome of this case. I will only be looking at if QIC acted fairly when concluding Mr A 
was using his car for business use at the time of the theft, and declining his claim.
Where there is a dispute in evidence, I have to look at what is more likely to have happened 
and in this case I think it's more likely than not that Mr A was using his car whilst working as 
a food delivery driver. I say this for a number of reasons:
His account to the police when reporting the crime, was that he was delivering food. 
Its normally found that the first version of an account following an incident is the one 
closest to the truth as its fresh in the memory. As an explanation for this being wrong, 
he has since said he had to lie to save his marriage and save shame being brought 
upon him and his wife.
Mr A gave a different account to his ex-girlfriend of their day. As an explanation for 
this being wrong, he has since said at the time he had just been robbed, was in 
shock, scared and unable to think straight. So, it's reasonable that he didn't give an 
accurate account of his day as he could remember everything.
Both of these statements can't be true, either Mr A was in shock and unable to think straight 
and so gave an inaccurate account of events, or, he was able to think on his feet and make 
up a lie to tell to the police for the good of his marriage. 
Mr A had already set up alternative insurance to use for delivering food, so I think it's clear 
this is something he was intending to use his car for. But I don't think him having not used 
the insurance, is evidence that he wasn't delivering food at the time of the incident. And I 
think it's entirely possible that, as he hadn't used the app before, he may have forgotten to 
start an ad-hoc shift on the day his car was stolen. 
I don't dispute what Mr A says about him having a passenger in his car, at the time, whose 
identity he wanted to hide. I think this is supported by the fact, he says, he told her to run 
away and she is not mentioned at all in the police report.
And so, having accepted, she was in the car, I also accept the statement she gave to the 
QIC investigator, which says her and Mr A were going between two fast-food restaurants. I 
dont find it likely this was because she loves fast-food and wanted more. So, based on this 
along with the other points, Im satisfied QIC has fairly and reasonably concluded Mr A was 
using his car for delivering food at the time of the incident.
So, I've gone on to consider if this means Mr A's claim is excluded under his policy. I've 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and they state under the heading Things not 
covered under this policy:This policy does not cover for the following.
1. Any injury, loss or damage that happens while you're car:
a. is being driven by, or is in the charge of, any person not shown on your 
certificate of motor insurance; 
b. is being used for any purpose not shown on your certificate of motor 
insurance;
c. 
I've already noted above that Mr As certificate motor insurance shows he is only covered for 
social domestic and pleasure purposes. This means the claim would not be covered under 
this policy. 
Our approach in the circumstances is to ask a business if it would have offered cover for the 
circumstances if a consumer had requested it at the start of the policy, and if so, what it 
would charge for this. If it is something it would have covered, we ask it to calculate the 
difference in price, and settle the claim proportionately, based on the percentage of the 
premium consumer has paid. However, if the business can show it would never have offered 
cover for the circumstances, then we say it's fair for it to decline the claim.
QIC has provided me with a copy of its underwriting criteria, showing it does not provide 
cover for food delivery. And so, I'm satisfied, it is entitled to decline Mr A's claim under this 
policy and wouldnt be asked to settle it proportionately either.
I understand Mr As strength of feeling about this claim. And I know he will be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with QIC  
can do for him.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman