DRN-3143557
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis sold them a decreasing term assurance 
policy. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in connection 
with their business. At the same time, HSBC recommended they take out a mortgage 
protection plan with another company. This plan was a 20-year decreasing joint term 
assurance policy with a sum assured of £230,000. 
In 2015, Mr and Mrs D approached another bank in relation to further business borrowing 
and a staff member at that bank expressed surprise that theyd been sold a term assurance 
policy given Mr and Mrs D had £1.2 million worth of assets in connection with their business. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs D complained to HSBC about the sale of the policy, which at the time 
they thought was PPI. HSBC told Mr and Mrs D they didnt have a PPI policy and gave them 
referral rights to our service. 
Mr and Mrs D then brought their complaint to our service. They told us they were not given a 
choice about whether to take out the policy and said the cover wasnt properly explained to 
them. 
After some discussion over the time limits for referring complaints, as outlined in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, HSBC consented to our 
service considering this complaint. 
HSBC told us that at that time it was common practice for suitable life cover to be a condition 
of business lending, but because of the passage of time it had been unable to find 
paperwork linked to the lending in order to confirm if this was the case.
Our investigator looked into things and was of the opinion HSBC had acted reasonably and 
the recommended policy was suitable. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at everything again and make a final decision. So, this has come to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the relevant time limits for bringing complaints outlined in the DISP rules. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has consented to our service considering this complaint, allowing me 
to consider the merits here.
HSBC has provided us with the fact find document and advice letter completed by its advisor 
at that time. These show this was an advised sale following a personal financial planning 
review meeting in April 2005 attended by both Mr and Mrs D.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D may not have been actively seeking term assurance at this time, 
but they agreed to the financial review being conducted. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for HSBC to review their financial circumstances and recommend suitable products. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs D now think the term assurance policy wasnt needed, having carefully 
considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded it was an unsuitable recommendation 
 Ill explain why.
The purpose of taking out a term assurance policy in circumstances such as these is usually 
to protect the debt in the event of death. And thats because the affordability of the loan is 
usually calculated on the joint income/participation in the business. 
Here the policy sold was decreasing, and the sum assured and term matched the borrowing 
being taken out. So, it seems the product itself was an appropriate type of cover for the 
mortgage being taken out. I can see the advisor was also aware Mr and Mrs D had existing 
term assurance cover in place. They wrote that this matched the existing borrowing - with a 
£100,000 sum assured in place until 2016  and wasnt suitable protection for the new 
borrowing. And so, Im satisfied it was reasonable in these circumstances for the advisor to 
recommend a replacement life assurance policy. 
But I think the crux of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is that they had enough assets in their 
business that were one of them to pass away, these could be sold in order to cover the debt. 
So, they didnt need the policy. 
Yet Ive seen nothing within the fact find or recommendation letter that indicates 
Mr and Mrs D had discussions with the advisor about the sale of business assets in these 
circumstances. The contemporaneous record states that Mr and Mrs D were only seeking to 
protect their mortgage, it said they only want this protected as it is their main priority. And it 
listed the business assets at £0.
The letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs D shortly after the meeting clearly stated your main 
concern is to ensure that the balance outstanding on your mortgage will be repaid if you die 
during the term of the loan. The accompanying important notes shared with Mr and Mrs D 
stressed that if there are any omissions, misunderstandings or subsequent material 
changes, please let me know as I may need to review my recommendations. And Mr and 
Mrs D signed the financial advice declaration form asking the advisor to proceed on this 
basis.
From what I have seen the recommended policy was suitable for the purpose outlined in the 
fact find. And if Mr and Mrs D were intending to sell business assets in the event one of them 
died, Id have expected this to have been mentioned in the documentation. Im satisfied they 
were given the opportunity to correct inaccuracies if needed. And so, on balance, I dont 
think the sale of these assets was raised by Mr and Mrs D at that time. 
I appreciate that the point Mr and Mrs D may be making here is not that they proactively 
suggested that they would sell business assets, but that this was an option available to them 
and something which they dont think the advisor explored or considered. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs D that the advisor was the expert here, someone they would have 
relied on to provide suitable recommendations. But these recommendations can only be 
based on the information provided. Ultimately, I dont think the selling of these assets was something that the advisor ought to 
have factored in when considering the protection required. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have 
told our service that the business couldnt function with only one partner due to the workload, 
so it would have been necessary to sell the business in the event of the death of one 
partner. But as outlined above, theres no evidence they told the financial advisor this. And I 
dont think the requirement to sell the business in this scenario is self-evident such that the 
financial advisor ought to have known this would happen. 
I certainly dont think this is an approach that ought to have been proactively recommended 
by the advisor in these circumstances. The fact find indicates both Mr and Mrs Ds income 
was derived from the business (Mrs Ds only in part, but Mr Ds in its entirety). Which means 
selling the business assets would seemingly have an impact on the livelihood of the 
surviving party. So, this approach would, on the face of it, offer very limited overall financial 
protection in the event of the death of one partner. And where a consumer could afford more 
comprehensive protection, this wouldnt seem a particularly suitable recommendation. 
For all of these reasons, I am of the opinion the recommendation made was suitable based 
on the information provided.
Mr and Mrs D have also said that the fact the business assets are listed as £0 on the fact 
find (which they say is evidently incorrect) shows a lack of diligence on the part of the 
financial advisor. And whilst it would appear that the fact find is inaccurate in this regard, for 
the reasons outlined above Im still not persuaded this means the recommendation was 
inappropriate.
The final point Mr and Mrs D have raised is that they didnt feel they had an option but to 
take out the protection policy, they have repeatedly stated they didnt ask for the protection. 
So, putting aside the suitability of the recommendation, Mr and Mrs D are essentially 
suggesting they were pressured into purchasing the term assurance policy. HSBC has told 
us it thinks taking out a term assurance policy was a condition of lending at that time, but it 
hasnt been able to evidence this. Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I have to 
decide what I think is most likely. And on balance I think protection was likely a condition of 
lending at the time. I say this noting its common for some sort of life protection to be a 
condition of commercial lending and that the fact find indicates the term assurance plan 
would be assigned as security to the bank. 
Mr and Mrs D have questioned why, if this was the case, the bank also held the deeds to 
their business during the loan term. Mr and Mrs D havent complained to HSBC about the 
fact HSBC required their deeds. So, in this decision Im limited to considering the protection 
policy itself. But I think the point that Mr and Mrs D are trying to make here is that by holding 
the deeds, HSBC had already protected its liability as it could sell the land to recover the 
debt. So, Mr and Mrs D dont think the protection policy was needed. However, its up to 
HSBC to decide what terms and conditions to place on its lending. So, I still dont think it was 
unfair for HSBC to require that Mr and Mrs D take out a protection policy.This being the case, I wouldnt have expected the advisor to explain the cover was optional, 
as it wouldnt have been. Although I would have expected the fact this was a condition of 
borrowing to be made clear. That being said, even if this wasnt fully explained, I cant see 
that this would have made any difference. As on balance, I think Mr and Mrs D would have 
agreed to the recommendation in order to obtain the borrowing. I can also see the financial 
advisor considered products from other financial institutions and explained all of this to 
Mr and Mrs D in the recommendation letter. Taking everything into account, I dont think this 
policy was mis sold and I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman