DRN-2120859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs L alongside a new mortgage in 
2003. The policy protected their monthly repayments in the event Mr L couldnt work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Santander hadnt provided 
Mr and Mrs L with all the information it shouldve done  in particular, it hadnt shown how it 
made Mr and Mrs L aware that the policy was optional.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Santander shouldve made it clear to Mr and Mrs L that the policy was optional. I cant see 
how it did and so I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs L wouldve known they could choose if 
they wanted to have the policy or not. 
Mr and Mrs L thought theyd taken out the PPI during a meeting but Santander cant confirm 
how it sold the policy. And Santander cant supply me with anything to show how the PPI 
was presented or explained to Mr and Mrs L.
Amongst other things, Mr and Mrs L told us that the terms of the PPI were never properly 
explained to them. And they felt that PPI wasnt needed as they had other ways to pay the 
mortgage if Mr L wasnt able to work.
Ive looked carefully at the information Santander has sent me about the sales process 
which it says wouldve been followed. And I've also taken into account the PPI leaflet and 
application that Santander suggested was indicative of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve seen at the time. 
But I dont feel Ive seen enough for me safely to say that Santander made Mr and Mrs L 
aware that they couldve had their mortgage without taking out PPI. And I dont think theres 
anything in the paperwork Ive seen that wouldve made them realise this.
Looked at overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think Santander made it 
clear to Mr and Mrs L that they didnt have to take out PPI. 
So I uphold this complaint. And Ive set out below what Santander should do to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs L in the position they wouldve been had they not taken 
out the policy. So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
Santander can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating to 
this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Mr and Mrs L.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman