DRN-3781795
The complaint
Mr M complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proper affordability checks before it provided him with loans.
What happened
Mr M was advanced four home collected loans between December 2018 and October 2020.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 18/12/2018 19/07/2019 33 £10.00
2 £200.00 19/07/2019 28/02/2020 33 £10.00
3 £200.00 28/02/2020 23/10/2020 34 £10.00
4 £200.00 23/10/2020 09/07/2021 34 £10.00
Following Mr Ms complaint Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried
out affordability checks before these loans were advanced and based on the information it
received, it was reasonable to lend.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator. He concluded it was reasonable for loans 1
 3 to have been advanced. So, he didnt uphold the complaint about these loans. However,
he thought loan 4 shouldnt have been granted because the lending pattern was now harmful 
for Mr M.
Mr Ms representative didnt acknowledge receipt of the adjudicators assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in summary, Morses said:
Morses loan values remained stable  borrowing £200 each time.
Mr M was only repaying one loan at a time.
Adequate checks were completed before loan 4 was advanced and these checks
showed the loan was affordable.
Up to loan 4 Mr M had a good repayment history.
As no agreement had been reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I then issued 
my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and a smaller font and 
which forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Mr M (or his representative) appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators
findings in relation to loans 1  3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer
think that I need to make a finding about it. But for completeness I dont disagree with the
adjudicators assessment that it wasnt unfair of Morses to have provided these loans. But I
have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between
Morses and Mr M.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loan
4.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to
repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Loans 4
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view the loan was harmful for Mr M because
it was now unsustainable for Morses to continue to lend to him.
Given the time Mr M had been spent indebted to Morses, I can understand why the
adjudicator may have felt the lending was now unsustainable for Mr M. However, I dont
think, Morses wouldve concluded these loans was now harmful to Mr M.I accept, that Mr M had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 22 months  and
he was further committing to be indebted for an additional 34 weeks. This, in some situations
could be a sign that he was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least having longer
term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was consecutive,
which could show that Mr M had a continued need for credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that Mr Ms borrowing wasnt increasing  all the loans were
for the same capital amount and the repayment term stayed the same. There also hadnt
been any obvious repayment problems when Mr M had settled previous loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for him and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to
be so harmful to the extent that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to
Mr M. But that doesnt mean Morse did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Mr M, his income was
declared at £168 per week. His weekly expenditure was declared as £87.60 which resulted
in a disposable income of £80.40 per week. This may have then led Morses to believe that
Mr M had sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan repayment.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Mr M may have been reliant on
this credit and his indebtedness was potentially extending for another 34 weeks. These
factors ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Mr Ms financial
position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr M declared to
it about his income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mr M could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ms financial position to ensure
the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of his outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Mr Ms full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Ms financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mr M couldnt afford it.
However, Mr Ms representative hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with either his
credit file or his bank statement. So, without any further information from Mr M about his
other living costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it
made better checks.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Mr M. As this is
the case, Im intending to not uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4.
Response to provisional decision
Both Morses and Mr M (and / or his representative) were asked to provide anything further 
for consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 28 October 2022. 
Neither Morses nor Mr M (or his representative) has acknowledged or responded to the 
provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has supplied anything further or new for consideration. I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. In relation to loan 4, I dont 
think Morses checks went far enough before it advanced this loan. 
However, as Ive not been provided with any details of Mr Ms financial position at the time 
(such as a credit file or bank statements) I dont know what Morses may have seen had it 
carried out a proportionate check. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman