DRN-1476221
 
The complaint
 Mrs H is upset with her insurers Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd (LV) for the 
treatment she experienced during a home emergency claim, for her boiler breakdown. 
What happened
Mrs H has complex health problems that have left her with mobility issues. In September 
2019, Mrs H called LV to report that her boiler had stopped working. It sent their engineer to 
fix the problem. The engineer identified the issue and ordered parts. It estimated labour to be 
5 hours and that it would take 3 -4 working days for the delivery of the parts.  
 Mrs Hs policy has a limit of £500 per insured event. As this was estimated to exceed the 
limit, an overpayment was taken on Mrs Hs debit card. The engineer returned and carried 
out the repairs but only took 2 hours to fix. Mrs Hs son complained to LV and a refund of 3 
hours labour was given back.  
 Another engineers visit was arranged as there was an issue with the programmer.  So in 
October 2019, he attended and installed a new programmer.  But, Mrs H complained that he 
had installed an inferior programmer, left her with very hot water and he failed to re program 
the heating timer. He also left without shutting her front door.
 Mrs Hs son again complained to LV about the poor level of service that his mother had 
received. Not least as he said he had to leave work to rectify the engineers mistake and had 
Mrs Hs carer not arrived home there was a potential for far greater risk caused to his 
mother.
 LV recognised that its customer service had fallen short and initially offered £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenienced caused. Mrs H rejected that offer and it 
was increased to £150.
 Mrs H wasnt satisfied with LVs response and brought her complaint here.   
 Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that LV acted fairly. He found that it 
had refunded the overpayment as soon as possible and that they carried out necessary 
repairs to Mrs Hs boiler.  He found that the £150 compensation offered by LV was fair and 
took into account Mrs Hs ill health and the distress that LV had caused. 
 Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
 Like our investigator I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether LV acted 
unfairly in its treatment of Mrs Hs complaint.  I have had sight of her policy document and I 
have taken into account Mrs Hs health issues and how the events would have affected her.  
Engineers visits
 Following Mrs Hs report of the breakdown, an engineer attended and diagnosed the fault. 
Parts were required and it wouldve meant that Mrs H would be without heating, so he 
offered temporary heaters but they were refused. 
 The engineer attended and fitted the parts. Mrs H said that the engineer was at her home 
for 2 hours but she had been charged for 5 hours labour costs. LV said that they refunded 
the additional 3 hours, once it was made aware of its error.  It is regrettable that LV did not 
automatically refund the overpayment but I am satisfied that it refunded the overpayment as 
soon as was practicable.  Consequently, I think LV acted reasonably towards Mrs H by 
issuing the refund and also offering temporary heating.  
 In October another engineer attended to fix a program issue. He installed a timer.  Mrs H 
says that he failed to re-program the timer to her previous settings, and he failed to adjust 
the hot water, so it that ran extremely hot. She says he also left her front door wide open. 
Due to her mobility issues, she only discovered this when her carer attended. Mrs H says 
that she had to call her son to fix the problem and they felt that the timer installed was of an 
inferior quality. 
 I have looked at the terms of the home emergency cover policy that Mrs H had. I can see 
that LV relied upon those terms when they replaced the timer:  
"Our approved repairer may use parts that do not exactly match the originals that have failed 
in order to complete a temporary repair. If you request parts that are of a superior 
specification to the original ones fitted, you will be responsible to pay for the increased costs 
involved.
The engineer didnt have the original part but replaced it with a comparable timer, in 
accordance with the terms. I think where LV fell short was by its engineer not re 
programming the timer or ensuring that the hot water was at a suitable temperature for use. 
Also, I can see why Mrs H felt distress at having her front door left open, when she didnt 
have the ability to shut it. 
Policy limit 
The terms of the policy show a limit of £500 for any one emergency including call outs, parts, 
labour and VAT. I have seen a breakdown provided from LV which includes the parts used in 
the repair, the labour costs and call out charges.  Initially LV changed the maximum of 5 
hours labour, on the basis of the engineers estimation of how long the job would take. Mrs H 
said that the engineer was at her home for 2 hours and her son had to inform LV of this. LV 
once it was made aware refunded the additional 3 hours labour costs. I think LV acted as 
quickly as possible so that Mrs H wasnt significantly out of pocket and LV relied on the 
policy limit as it was permitted to do. So I cant see how LV acted unreasonably. LV offered Mrs H £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, in recognition of its 
shortcomings. I think that the level of compensation is fair in the circumstances and would be 
in line with the recommendations of the service.
Whilst I sympathise with Mrs H in what would have been a worrying experience, I have to be 
satisfied that the actions of LV in relying on the policy and the level of compensation were 
unfair. For the reasons given, I cant see how LV acted unfairly towards Mrs H.  I am afraid 
that overall, my view is that I cant ask LV to do anymore.   
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman