DRN-3069617
The complaint
Mr R says ReAssure Life Limited (formerly trading as Skandia and then Old Mutual Wealth) 
mis-sold him a Group Personal Pension product, failed in its duty of care towards him and 
was conflicted in executing the transaction. As a result he says he has suffered financial 
detriment.
What happened
Mr R joined a new company as a senior director in 2000. He says he requested his pension 
contributions be paid into his existing flexible personal pension plan, but instead was forced 
to join a new group pension plan provided by ReAssure Life Limited (ReAssure).
Mr Rs pension was initiated in 2000 and became paid up the same year. Only two 
contributions were paid into his plan totalling £3,333. But these still benefitted from returns 
on the investment made. As at September 2020, his fund was worth around £6,325.
Mr R says that when recently planning for retirement he found out his employers chairman 
was the owner and director of the firm which was engaged to provide advice to employees 
about the pension plan hed joined. He believes this was in order to maximise commission 
payments to the brokerage his chairman had an association with. He complained about what 
had happened.
ReAssure rejected Mr Rs complaint saying it was the product provider only. It said its 
products were recommended to the customers by financial advisers It said the firm which 
had provided him with advice was BAL Europe Ltd (BA No2) - R Langley, which was part of 
Burns-Anderson Limited network (Ill refer to BAL throughout for simplicity).
Mr R wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response so he brought his complaint to this Service. 
He told us:
As I am now 60 years old and planning the next 5-7 years leading up to my retirement I find 
due to the fact my pension contributions were largely allocated to commissions that my fund, 
after 20 years of growth, is not even valued at the amount of my contributions, this is 
preposterous.
My flexible personal original pension has compounded by at least 3 times in value as 
pension charges are minimal as no new initial commissions have had a negative effect on its 
growth.
I write therefore for your intervention as to the effect upon my contributions of these 
commission payments made and subsequent negative effect upon my pension value.
I apply for financial compensation in this matter for mis selling -I calculate the value based 
on contributions made should be in excess of c £25,000
An investigator considered Mr Rs case and didnt uphold it. She concluded BAL was 
responsible for giving him advice in 2000. And that ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr R disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions Mr Rs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision. This is the 
final stage of this Services process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in terms of the mis-sale of his group pension plan; a failure 
in the duty of care shown to him during the transaction; and citing what he believes was a 
conflict of interest between his employer at the time and the advising firm.
Its important to make clear that ReAssure didnt sell the pension plan to Mr R. The financial 
adviser shown on the paperwork Ive seen indicates this role was performed by BAL. It was 
that firms responsibility to have informed him about whether the policy was appropriate and 
to have provided him with the information he needed to make a proper decision about 
whether to proceed.
So, it was BAL which sold Mr R the pension plan. And it was that firm which had a duty of 
care to him with regards the information and recommendations it provided.
Turning to the matter of potential conflicts of interest, Mr Rs concern appears to be centred 
on the role of the then chairman of his new employer and that individuals interests in the 
advising firm. So again, ReAssure is remote from the matter he raises.
Its of note that the Regulator banned the practice of commission being paid to advisers with 
effect from 2013. In doing so it sought greater transparency for consumers in what they were 
being charged for products and services. That said, even though Mr Rs policy was initiated 
in 2000, there were still obligations on firms like BAL to have provided him with clear 
information about the costs of the policy (including commission), and the impact these would 
have on projected returns.
Unfortunately, BAL is no longer authorised by the Regulator and is in default. But my 
understanding is that claims are being considered against that firm through the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And Mr R has already initiated action through that 
route.
That leaves a narrow area to explore for this Service about ReAssures role in what 
happened to Mr R. Specifically, any administrative failings in relation to his pension plan 
where these relate to the complaint points hes raised.When Mr Rs plan was set-up BALs agreement with ReAssure meant that it would receive 
up-front commission of around £2070 for arranging the policy and a marketing allowance of 
around £830. 
The pension plan was due to run from initiation until Mr Rs retirement when he reached 60. 
However, the terms of the agreement provided that ReAssure could claw back commission if 
the pension plan wasnt followed for a minimum period of 22 months. So, because it became 
paid up after a couple of contributions, BAL only received around £360 initial commission 
and £144 marketing allowance.
ReAssure has confirmed that commission was funded from the bid/offer spread of unit 
prices. The upfront payment wouldve been recouped through this mechanism with 
contributions made by Mr R. But as we know his fund was paid up early and the actual 
commission paid to BAL reduced accordingly.
Like the Investigator, I havent seen anything which shows ReAssure failed to adhere to the 
agreement made at the time. 
To conclude, what Mr R alleges about the sale, duty of care provided and potential conflicts 
of interests may or may not be the case. But these matters are not the responsibility of 
ReAssure for the reasons Ive set out. In respect of its responsibilities, I havent seen 
anything to suggest it had done anything wrong. It follows that Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman