DRN-1557267
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given by Barclays Bank UK PLC about his 
finances.
What happened
Mr C spoke to a Barclays representative as he wanted to see if there were ways he could be 
smarter with his money, as he was thinking about taking out further borrowing in a mortgage. 
The adviser suggested he could reduce the amount of unsecured debt he had, as well as the 
amount of credit available to him, as they said these may affect the amount of mortgage he 
could borrow. 
Following this, he used his savings to pay off his Barclays loan that had around £12,000 
outstanding and reduced the limit on his credit card with another provider from £12,000 to 
£2,000. But Mr C then spoke with a financial adviser and was told these actions wouldnt 
make a difference to his financial position, as his credit card limit wouldnt affect his ability to 
borrow a mortgage. Paying off the loan also used his savings, which left him with nothing as 
an emergency fund. 
Mr C complained that hed been wrongly advised. He wanted to be put back in the position 
he was in before  with the money in his savings account; his loan back in place and his 
credit card limit back to what it was.
 
However, Barclays said that Mr C had been given general information in the branch. It said 
the adviser wasnt allowed to give advice on mortgages as this is a regulated product. It said 
that although removing the credit limit from a card may not have an impact, having a few 
cards with a zero balance would affect a customers exposure to credit. It said that Mr C had 
previously told it that he had other credit cards, not just the one that he reduced the limit on.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and initially didnt think that it was one that 
we could consider. However, upon review, the investigator said that Barclays hadnt 
provided Mr C with financial advice but had had a general discussion with him that reducing 
his unsecured debt may put him in a better position for future borrowing. The investigator 
said it was Mr Cs choice to take the actions he did, and although he then felt he was in a 
less secure financial position after making the changes he did, she didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate what Mr C has told us about the discussion he had in the branch; and 
the changes he made to his finances following this. I can see that Mr C wanted to try and be 
smarter with his money, particularly as hes said he was looking at increasing or changing 
his mortgage borrowing.
But, having considered all that hes told us alongside the information from Barclays about his 
visit to the branch, I dont think the discussion he had that day could be said to constitute 
specific financial advice or a personal recommendation based upon his particular 
circumstances. 
I say this because the adviser he saw was a banking adviser who wasnt authorised to give 
advice on mortgages. There arent any notes or records of the discussion or advice given. 
The branch has said that the adviser only gave Mr C general information and then booked a 
telephone appointment for him with a mortgage adviser.
 
Ive also taken into account Mr Cs own description of the discussion. Hes told us that he 
recalls that the adviser used phrases such as If I was in your situation or If I was you. 
And I dont think this suggests that the adviser was giving Mr C specific or tailored advice 
about what would be right for his situation; or what would certainly help him obtain the 
mortgage he wanted. Instead it seems that the adviser was giving Mr C a more general 
opinion that it may help his financial position in relation to applying for a mortgage if he had 
less unsecured debt or available credit.
Following the discussion, Mr C using his savings to pay off his loan and reduced the limit on 
his credit card with another provider. These were actions he chose to make himself. They 
werent dealt with by Barclays adviser who wouldnt have been able to approach Mr Cs 
credit card provider on his behalf and didnt make the arrangements to pay off his loan with 
his savings. These were both actions Mr C decided to go ahead with of his own accord. I 
realise that he feels that he was following the suggestions made by the adviser in doing this, 
but I dont think this means Barclays was making tailored financial recommendations about 
how he should manage his finances.
 
I can see that with hindsight, Mr C now feels that his financial position hasnt been made any 
better by the actions he took and may not have improved his ability to obtain the mortgage 
he wanted. But in the circumstances here, I dont think this was Barclays fault or was the 
result of any wrongdoing by it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman