DRN-2568340
The complaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a curtailment 
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 28 February 2020, Mr B took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This was 
intended to cover a trip Mr B was taking to South America. He was due to travel on 12 March 
2020 and return on 8 April 2020.
Mr B travelled to South America as planned. However, on 23 March 2020, as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all UK travellers 
abroad to return to the UK. Mr B sought help from the consulate in the country he was 
staying in to make early return arrangements and returned to the UK on 3 April 2020. He 
made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cutting short his 
trip.
URV turned down Mr Bs claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy set out a list of 
insured events which it covered. This section didnt include changes to FCO guidance. So it 
said the circumstances of Mr Bs claim werent covered by the policy terms.
Mr B was unhappy with URVs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that Mr B 
had found himself in an unfortunate and stressful situation. But she didnt think the policy 
covered the circumstances of the claim. And she explained that travel insurance policies 
simply didnt insure every eventuality a policyholder might need to claim for.
Mr B disagreed. He felt customers were offered a policy that appeared to meet their needs, 
which URV could alter when it suited it to do so. He said hed taken out the policy in good 
faith and felt that it would cover all eventualities. He didnt think it was fair for URV to decide 
that Covid-19 wouldnt be covered until after claims had been made. This meant URV was 
operating on an uneven playing field. The policy document didnt make clear which 
scenarios wouldnt be covered and he felt URV had used non-existent wording in its policies 
to get out of paying claims.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for URV to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms 
and conditions, together with the circumstances of Mr Bs claim to decide whether URV 
treated them fairly.
Mr B had to cut short his holiday because the FCO advised all UK tourists abroad to return 
to the UK as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This means his claim was correctly 
considered under the If you need to come home early section of the policy. This says:
We will pay:
up to £3,000 in total for your unused proportion of:
 pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip;
 loss of accommodation;
 foreign car hire; and
 either your pre-booked return travel costs, or the cost of your curtailment travel costs, 
whichever is the greater that you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot recover 
from any other source following your necessary cutting short of your trip.
For: 
-your early return home because of the death, injury or illness of: you or a friend with 
whom you are travelling;
-a close relative who lives in your home country; 
-a close business associate who lives in your home country; or
-a friend who lives abroad and with whom you are staying
-you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your home 
country for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
-you, a friend, business associate or close relative who is travelling with you being 
called back by the Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your
friend, business associate or close relative, or usual place of business in your
home country, having suffered from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
Ive looked carefully at each of these insured events, which form the basis of the contract 
between Mr B and URV. Changes to FCO guidance and cutting trips short because of a 
pandemic simply arent included in the list of things this policy covers. 
Taking the above into account, this means that I dont think Mr Bs claim is covered by the 
policy terms.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Bs situation. At the time he flew to South America, 
the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel and the FCO hadnt advised UK 
travellers abroad to return to the UK. Once the FCO guidance changed, on 23 March 2020, I 
can entirely understand why Mr B needed to return home early. He acted in line with the 
advice hed been given and was put to significant expense and inconvenience in having to 
cut short his trip. So I can understand how frustrating and upsetting it mustve been for him 
when URV turned down his claim.
But as the investigator explained, travel insurance policies dont cover all eventualities. Mr 
Bs claim simply isnt covered by any section of his policy. And I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to direct URV to cover the claim in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ive outlined above. So I think it was fair for URV to turn down Mr Bs claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman