DRN-4502665
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was given unsuitable advice by AJH Financial Services Ltd (AJH) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In August 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr R information about his entitlement 
under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) illustration. 
The CETV stated that Mr R had 24 years and 9 months of pensionable service in the DB 
scheme and that the total transfer value of his benefits was £393,537.05.
Mr R wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he contacted AJH to seek some advice. 
An initial meeting was arranged between AJH and Mr R at the end of August 2017 along 
with a follow up meeting in October 2017. A fact-find was completed to gather information 
about Mr Rs circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr R was aged 48, his wife was aged 
44 and they had two children, one aged 23 who was financially independent and one aged 
17 who was financially dependent. It also noted that Mr R earned £46,000 per year and his 
wife earned £30,000. Their home was documented as being valued at £130,000 with a 
repayment mortgage of £76,000 and an outstanding term of 10 years. Mr R was noted as 
having no debts, savings or investments save for £1,000 in his bank account. AJH also 
recorded that Mr R and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his 
employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme and that Mrs R was a member 
of her employers DB scheme.
Mr R told AJH he was hoping to retire at age 60 on a target income of £18,000 per year and 
an aspirational income of £24,000 per year. AJH carried out an assessment of Mr Rs 
attitude to risk (ATR) which was mutually agreed to be lowest medium, or 4 on a scale of 
1 to 10.
The pension transfer questionnaire completed by Mr R with AJH during their first meeting 
(along with his comments on the fact-find) recorded his objectives for wanting to transfer his 
DB benefits to a personal pension. These were that he had concerns and had lost faith with 
his employer and its pension schemes and did not want to risk his benefits moving to the 
PPF because he thought this would impact his ability to retire early at age 60. Mr R said he 
didnt want to leave his funds invested in a scheme connected to his employer and that he 
wanted to ensure that his family could benefit from his pension monies if anything happened 
to him. Mr R also said that he wanted the flexibility around how he drew his benefits because 
he wanted to be able to draw more income in the early years of his retirement. Mr R also 
said he wanted to maximise the benefits payable to him in his lifetime because his wife had 
significant pension benefits of her own which, together with their state pensions, would 
provide them with sufficient guaranteed income. Finally Mr R said he wanted to retire early at 
age 60 and did not want to incur a penalty for doing so. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr R signed the transfer and application forms on 25 October 2017.
On 2 November 2017, AJH sent Mr R its suitability report in which it recommended he 
transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension plan. AJH said Mr R would benefit 
from being able to invest in a range of investment funds that had the potential for long term 
growth; from tax-free death benefits should he pass away before the age of 75; the flexibility 
to draw unrestricted amounts from his pension at any one time and from being able to vary 
the underlying funds and risks within the pension to reflect any changes in his personal 
circumstances. 
On 21 November 2017, AJH sent Mr R a transfer value analysis report.
In December 2017, £406,369.78 (Mr Rs CETV having been revised by his employer) was 
transferred from Mr Rs BSPS DB scheme to his new pension. AJHs advice fee, paid from 
the transferred fund, was £4,063.70
 
In August 2021, Mr R, through his representative, complained to AJH about the advice he 
received, believing it may have been unsuitable for him and that he had suffered a financial 
loss as a result. Mr R said he should have been advised to join the BSPS2. AJH looked into 
Mr Rs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had acted in Mr Rs 
best interests and in good faith based on his retirement objectives.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to AJH, Mr R complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint for him and issued his 
findings in April 2022. He recommended that Mr Rs complaint was upheld as he didnt think 
it was in Mr Rs best interests to transfer his guaranteed benefits to a personal pension plan. 
Our Investigator said he didnt think there was any reasonable prospect of Mr R improving 
on his guaranteed scheme benefits based on him investing in line with his ATR. So he didnt 
think that the transfer was a financially viable one. Nor did he think the alternative death 
benefits available through the personal pension were worth Mr R giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme for. And our Investigator thought that Mr Rs other objectives 
of early retirement and flexibility could have been met through utilising the benefits available 
through either the BSPS2 or the PPF.
Our Investigator thought that AJH should have advised Mr R to opt into the PPF due to him 
wanting to take early retirement and that the early retirement factors under the PPF being 
more favourable than under BSPS2. So he recommended that AJH calculate whether Mr R 
had suffered a loss as a result of its advice to transfer. The Investigator also recommended that AJH should pay Mr R £300 to address the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
receipt of its unsuitable advice.
Mr R replied to say that whilst he was pleased to note our Investigator was recommending 
that his complaint was upheld, he disagreed that the redress recommended should be based 
on him having opted to join the PPF. He said he was some way away from retirement at the 
time of the advice so it was too early to decide at that point that he would have retired at age 
60. Mr R said he intended to retire at age 65. AJH replied to say it disagreed with our 
Investigators findings but made no new substantial submissions. 
Our Investigator considered the responses he received and issued a second view. He 
explained why he wasnt persuaded to change his mind regarding the outcome of the 
complaint but that he did now think that, had Mr R been suitably advised he would have 
opted to remain in the BSPS and move with it to the BSPS2. He said this was because 
Mr Rs retirement plans were not finalised at the time of the advice. Our Investigator 
recommended that AJH should calculate redress in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance based on Mr R retiring at age 65 and opting to move to the BSPS2. Our 
Investigator remained of the view that AJH should pay Mr R £300 to address the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the receipt of its unsuitable advice.
Mr R replied to say he accepted our Investigators findings. AJH replied to say it disagreed 
that it had provided Mr R with unsuitable advice. It said that by transferring, Mr R had been 
able to meet all of his objectives. AJH asked that the complaint be referred for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
In December 2022, whilst the complaint was waiting to be referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision, AJH informed our Investigator that it had undertaken a redress calculation for Mr R 
and that it showed he had suffered no financial loss. AJH said that in the interests of settling 
the complaint it was willing to pay Mr R £300 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. 
Mr R declined to accept AJHs offer and said he would rather wait until after 1 April 2023 to 
have his losses assessed in accordance with the changes brought about by the regulators 
Policy Statement PS 22/13. 
In February 2023, and again in May 2023, AJH undertook a redress calculation in 
accordance with PS 22/13. Both calculations showed that Mr R had suffered no financial 
loss. Mr R remained of the view that he wanted his complaint referred to an Ombudsman. 
Also in May 2023, our Investigator wrote to both Mr R and AJH to say that the regulator had 
now developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator which it was encouraging businesses to 
use. In June 2023 AJH ran a further calculation using the BSPS-specific redress calculator 
which showed that Mr R had sustained no financial loss. The calculation was valid for three 
months from the point AJH provided it to Mr R. Mr R didnt accept the calculation and it 
expired. 
In October 2023, in an attempt to resolve the complaint informally, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service asked AJH to carry out an up-to-date loss assessment using the BSPS 
calculator which it would then put to Mr R. AJH carried out the loss assessment which 
showed that Mr R had not suffered a loss as a result of its advice to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits. 
Our Investigator wrote to Mr R in November 2023 to explain that he had checked the inputs 
personal to him and entered by AJH into the BSPS calculator. Our Investigator said that 
based on what hed seen, AJH had carried out the calculation appropriately. He also said that the calculation showed that Mr R had suffered no financial loss and that his personal 
pension had sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB scheme benefits at retirement. 
Our Investigator explained that no redress was due to Mr R but that AJH had agreed to pay 
the recommended award of £300 for distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Mr R replied to say that he would still like an Ombudsman to look at the complaint. He said 
he would like the Ombudsman to consider increasing the compensation award for distress 
and inconvenience in light of the stress the entire situation and the protracted complaints 
process had caused him. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand AJH is still disputing that it gave Mr R unsuitable advice. Nonetheless, in order 
to conclude the matter, its already carried out loss calculations. So I dont see the need to 
address the suitability of its advice to Mr R in detail. 
That said, I will comment that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for broadly similar reasons. In particular Ive been mindful that the FCAs 
guidance for advising firms is that they should assume that a transfer from a DB scheme is 
unsuitable and they should only recommend one where they can clearly show that it was in 
the consumers best interests. I dont think that was the case for Mr R. Thats because, 
amongst other things:
The growth rates required to match the benefits from the DB scheme, particularly if 
Mr R were to take early retirement, seem too high to ensure he would be financially 
better off by transferring out of the DB scheme.
The difference in death benefits from a personal pension wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees offered by the DB scheme for. Thats especially the case as the both the 
BSPS2 and PPFs own death benefits were guaranteed and didnt rely on investment 
growth or how much was left in his pension pot at the date of his death. 
Mr R didnt need to give up the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to 
take early retirement or have flexible access to his pension funds. Thats because 
Mr R was a member of his employers DC scheme which provided him with the 
flexibility he claimed he needed  he wasnt committed to take its benefits in a set 
way. Mr R was aged only 48 at the time of the advice so had at least 12 years (and 
possibly 17 years) to go before retirement during which he would have built up a 
significant fund in his employers DC scheme which he would be able to access 
flexibly at whatever age he chose to retire. I cant see that AJH explained to Mr R that 
there was no requirement for him to give up the safeguarded benefits from the DB 
scheme in order to have some flexible access to retirement funds. 
Mr R could have taken lump sums from his DC scheme as and when required and 
adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have 
likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he ultimately decided.
I understand that Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer 
had handled his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was AJHs role 
to objectively address those concerns.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Rs best interest to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees. 
I also agree with our Investigator that AJH should compensate Mr R for any distress and 
inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him by paying him £300. Ive noted the 
comments made by Mr Rs representative that Mr R would like me to consider increasing the 
amount of compensation he is awarded in light of the distress the entire BSPS situation and 
the protracted complaints process has caused him. 
Ive thought carefully about the amount of compensation I am awarding Mr R here and Im 
satisfied that it is in line both with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to such 
awards in general and with awards we have made in similar complaints. I am also mindful 
that we dont award compensation for the process of bringing a complaint to this service. So 
Im not awarding any more than the £300 recommended by the Investigator.  
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr R as no agreement could be 
reached.
The aim is to put Mr R back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. AJH carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by AJH which are personal to Mr R. These 
include Mr Rs personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Rs case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr R has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
AJH has agreed to pay £300 as recommended by our Investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Overall, I think the calculation carried out by AJH is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr R. I think AJHs offer to pay Mr R £300 for the 
distress and worry he experienced as a result of realising he was unsuitably advised to move 
his DB scheme and that he could have suffered a financial loss as a consequence, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also thought about compensation awards that Ive 
made in complaints with similar circumstances and Im satisfied that this award is in line with 
those and with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to compensation in general.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AJH Financial Services Ltd to 
pay Mr P compensation of £300 for the worry he says this matter has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman