DRN-3631649
The complaint
Mr I complains M.E.M Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold a trade and professional insurance 
policy to him that didnt provide suitable cover for his business.
Mr I is represented in his complaint. For ease Ill refer to Mr I throughout.
What happened
Mr I is a sole trader. Historically he took out insurance for his business through a broker 
which was acquired by M.E.M Insurance Brokers Ltd (MEM) in around December 2017. 
Although Mr I moved his insurance business to MEM, his previous policy lapsed. And 
he took out a new insurance policy through MEM in April 2018. The policy, for public 
liability (PL) only, was renewed on similar terms in April 2019.
In around February 2020 an individual who was working with Mr I on site had an accident 
and brought a personal injury claim against him. Mr I made a claim on his policy. But the 
insurer declined the claim on grounds the individual fell within the definition of an 
employee under the policy and Mr I had no employers liability (EL) cover with them.
Mr I complained to MEM that theyd sold him an unsuitable policy. MEM didnt accept his 
complaint, so Mr I brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think 
MEM had done anything wrong since MEM had asked relevant and clear questions when 
Mr I took out the policy, and he confirmed he didnt have any employees or use 
subcontractors in his work. So, MEM hadnt mis-sold the policy. Since Mr I didnt agree, I 
reviewed his complaint afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I know so far, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and I 
dont intend to uphold Mr Is complaint. My reasons are partly different to our 
investigators. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to 
provide any further evidence or arguments theyd like me to take into account.
The parties have made detailed arguments, which Ive considered carefully in reaching 
my provisional conclusions. But I dont set them all out here. No discourtesy is intended 
by that  it simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on the 
issues I consider key in coming to my decision. And where theres a dispute between the 
parties about what happened, or not all the information is available, Ill decide what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on what I know.
From what Ive seen, I think Mr I approached MEM in 2018 to ask them to provide a 
quote for public liability (PL) insurance. MEM asked him questions which were relevant 
to the PL insurance the insurer provided, so they could let him know the premium hed 
have to pay.
Mr I says the questions MEM asked him didnt draw out the right information about his 
needs and demands. I think they did. Like the policy documents Ill refer to below, the 
questions distinguished between employees, including labour only sub-contractors, on the 
one hand and bona-fide sub-contractors on the other. I acknowledge Mr I says the 
difference between the types of sub-contractors werent clear to him at the time. But Id 
expect him to have answered yes to at least one of those questions if he used                
sub-contractors in his work. I note he answered yes to both when he adjusted the policy in 
October 2020, although I appreciate that followed the personal injury claim and legal 
advice. But I think Mr I would have known if he used sub-contractors of any sort in April 
2018.
In the context of the PL insurance MEM were sourcing for Mr I, its possible the only impact 
of answering yes to using sub-contractors would have been on the terms the insurers were 
prepared to offer for PL cover. But I think its likely, if hed done so, that it would have 
prompted MEM to ask Mr I if he wanted EL cover too. MEMs recommendation about the 
insurance Mr I took out was based on the answers Mr I gave to the questions MEM asked. 
He had the opportunity to let MEM know when answering those questions whether he used 
subcontractors or had employees. And he could have called to amend the policy if he 
started using sub-contractors for the first time at a later date.
I understand MEM spoke to Mr I over the phone in April 2018. Mr I had let his previous 
policy lapse and he wanted cover in place straight away. In those circumstances, Id expect 
MEM to have sent Mr I a copy of the statement of fact confirming his demands and needs 
for insurance, as discussed on the phone, so he could check the information was correct. 
Mr I doesnt recall getting the statement of fact. But I think MEM probably sent it to him as it 
was part of the policy documentation they had on file, which they were required to provide 
under the relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules.
Id expect Mr I to have read the documents to check the information was accurately 
recorded and the cover hed bought met his needs and requirements. Im not aware Mr I 
had EL cover before MEM took over from his previous brokers. But he had been in 
business for several years. And Id expect him to have understood what the legal 
requirements for insurance for his business were and whether he needed EL cover.
The cover MEM had arranged was set out in the documentation they gave Mr I in a way 
that was clear, fair and not misleading, as Id expect. For example:
The policy schedule set out prominently the sections of the policy that were in 
force, and that Mr I should contact MEM if he required cover the policy didnt 
provide.
Under the heading IMPORTANT NOTICE the schedule explained the policy 
requirements about employees and sub-contractors under the PL and EL 
sections, where to find the definition of an employee and a warning that 
whenever employees are engaged by the business you must ensure that 
employers liability is in force.
The cover described made a clear distinction between proprietors, partners 
or employees (including labour only subcontractors or working directors) 
on the one hand and bona-fide subcontractors on the other. I think Mr I ought to 
have understood different sub-contractors were treated differently, even if he 
didnt understand the full meaning of the terms used at the time. And if he had 
any concerns that people he was working with might fall into the category of an employee, he had the opportunity to check he had the cover he needed with 
MEM.
The Notes on Cover said if employees were engaged, Mr I should select EL 
cover unless he was exempt under relevant regulations or had cover elsewhere.
Bearing the above in mind, I think MEM did enough to bring to Mr Is attention the 
limitations of the PL cover he was taking out. The cover he got reflected the answers he 
gave to the questions MEM had asked about employees and subcontractors. And Mr I had 
the opportunity to let MEM know if he hadnt got the cover he needed.
MEMs records suggest Mr I renewed his policy on-line in April 2019. The renewal notice 
issued in March that year also contained the important notice wording Ive already 
mentioned. The statement of fact was reissued in similar terms and the cover Mr I took out 
didnt change. MEM spoke to Mr I in March 2020 when he confirmed again no changes 
were required to his insurance.
Since I think the information issued at renewal reflected what Mr I received in 2018, it 
follows that the renewal information was also sufficiently clear. If Mr I had any concerns he 
didnt have appropriate cover, he also had the opportunity to consider it when he renewed. 
I note Mr I adjusted his policy in October 2020, after the injury claim had been made 
against him, to include EL cover for a significant additional premium. I dont think thats 
relevant to whether MEM mis-sold insurance to Mr I beforehand.
I understand Mr I is concerned about the claim made against him. And the lack of EL 
cover has clearly left him in a difficult situation with which I empathise. But, based on what 
I know so far, I dont think MEM have made a mistake and I havent concluded at this 
stage that MEM mis-sold the policy to Mr I. So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
uphold Mr Is complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Is complaint.
Developments
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the parties havent commented on my provisional decision, I see no reason to change 
my mind about the conclusions I reached. So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman