DRN-2914876
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants Black Horse to pay for the 
repair costs.
What happened
Mr R obtained a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in 
April 2018. 
In July 2020 Mr R incurred various repair costs which were due to wear and tear. But when 
the garage removed the driveshaft to replace the CV boot, it found that the CV split and 
filled with an unusual material and CV joint dry and corroded. As a result, the garage had to 
replace the entire driveshaft. Mr R said this cost him £568.49. 
Black Horse said there wasnt evidence to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied, particularly as Mr R had enjoyed 27 months of trouble-free motoring.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that the fault was present or developing when the car was supplied. Mr R supplied 
some further information from the garage and said that the substance found in the CV boot 
contributed to the cost of the repair.
Our investigator still didnt think Black Horse could be held liable for the cost so Mr R asked 
for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He repeated that Black Horse had said it 
would re-consider the issue if Mr R could provide proof that the substance was added before 
the car was supplied to him. But hed never be able to obtain such evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The hire 
purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of goods under this agreement 
and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was supplied and how long 
after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old and had been driven around 57,000 miles when it was 
supplied. Its reasonable to expect that a car of this age and mileage would require more 
repair due to wear and tear than a brand-new car.
The driveshaft needed to be replaced in July 2020. This was more than two years after the 
car had been supplied and when Mr R had driven it around 20,000 miles. Mr R accepts that 
the driveshaft and the CV boot required repair or replacement due to wear and tear. But he 
says the cost he incurred was greater because of the substance that was found in the CV 
boot. He says this must have been put there by a previous owner and that it would have 
been present when the car was supplied.
In circumstances like this, I would usually rely on the findings of an independent report. But 
theres been no independent inspection of the car. So Ive considered the photos and the 
statement provided by the garage. 
Its clear that there is evidence of thick, black grease. I think the garage is more likely than 
not right when it says that the incorrect grease was used on a previous repair. But the 
garage hasnt been able to conclude what impact the use of this grease has had. I accept 
the presence of the grease meant the driveshaft had to be replaced. But I cant confirm with 
any certainty that the driveshaft wouldnt have needed replacing due to wear and tear 
anyway. In other words, I cant conclude that the grease is the sole reason for the fault, or 
the repair that was necessary. Taking into account also that Mr R was able to drive the car 
more than 20,000 miles before he reported the problem, I cant conclude that the car wasnt 
satisfactory when it was supplied.
It follows that I dont find Black Horse is obliged to reimburse Mr B for the costs hes 
incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman