DRN-2372110
The complaint
Mr H complains Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund a disputed transaction.
Monzo says the payment was authorised.
What happened
Mr H was on holiday between 23rd and 30th July 2019.  He transferred money into his Monzo 
account to use abroad as he says the exchange rates were better than his other bank.
When he arrived, he used his card to pay for his hotel bill, withdrew some euros from an 
ATM and then put his card away  not intending to use it again.
The next time he used it was on 30th July when he was due to leave.  This is when he 
noticed a transaction of 40 euros which had taken place on 25th July 2019.
Mr H said he hadnt carried out this transaction  so he complained to Monzo on his return.
In a final response, Monzo rejected Mr Hs complaint regarding the disputed transaction but 
offered him £30 for the poor customer service it had offered  although it didnt explain why it 
had rejected his complaint.
Mr H then came to this service.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask Monzo to do anymore  so the matter was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H will now know from the investigators view why it was Monzo refused to refund this 
money to Mr H.  Its because the audit trail for the transaction which Mr H complains about 
shows that the transaction was carried out using Mr Hs card and PIN.  
In fact, what it shows is that the payment was made by the card being tapped on the 
terminal, and then followed by the PIN being entered. Monzo say this is not so common in 
the UK but more common in European countries.
In order for Monzo to fairly hold Mr H liable for this transaction, the evidence needs to show 
that it was more likely than not that he authorised the payment. 
Authority is a two-stage test consisting of authentication and consent. 
Im satisfied the transaction was authenticated.  By that I mean Mr Hs card was used for the 
payment.  However, a finding on consent requires me to have consideration of the 
circumstances of this case and the evidence I have seen.
The evidence from Monzo shows Mr Hs PIN was entered in order to complete to the 
transaction.  I cannot ignore that evidence.
Mr H says he didnt make the transaction, his card was securely stored in a safe in the hotel 
room and no-one else knew his PIN.  He was on holiday with his two daughters at the time 
and he would not be complaining about a relatively small amount unless he was certain he 
had not authorised it.
If Mr H didnt make the transaction, then this suggests a third party was able to take his card 
from the safe, somehow obtain his PIN, make the payment and then return the card  and all 
this without Mr H being aware of what was happening.
On balance, I dont think this would have been possible.
In the circumstances, I am afraid I have seen nothing to suggest Monzo has been unfair or 
unreasonable in how it dealt with Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman