DRN-3961719
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to change his joint 
account to a sole account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Barclays had not 
acted incorrectly and therefore they were unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
In March 2022, Mr H and the joint account holder wrote to Barclays to request that their joint 
account be changed to a sole account in Mr Hs name. 
Barclays wrote to Mr H on 4 April 2022 to explain that for an account to be changed to a sole 
account, Barclays needed the authorisation from all account holders and also that if there 
was an overdraft on the account that is to be retained, the person whose name the account 
would be in would need to submit an overdraft application. This was to ensure that the 
overdraft was affordable for that individual.
Barclays then wrote to Mr H on 12 May 2022, to confirm that the overdraft application Mr H 
had submitted had been unsuccessful. The letter explained that Mr H could either leave the 
account in joint names or bring the account into a credit balance so that the overdraft facility 
could be withdrawn. The letter explained that Mr H would need to contact Barclays to 
confirm which option he wanted to choose, and explained that no action would be taken by 
Barclays unless it hears back from Mr H.
Unfortunately, it seems that Mr H didnt receive the letter dated 12 May 2022 and Mr H had 
assumed that the account had been changed to a sole account. I understand Mr H later 
discovered it had not been changed, and after contacting Barclays again on 19 August 2022, 
the account was changed to a sole account without an overdraft on the same day.
Having considered everything, I cant see that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
this matter. Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays in all likelihood did send the letter dated 12 
May 2022 to Mr H, and it looks to have been sent to the correct address. As such, I cant 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible if the letter was lost in the post, which seems to have 
been the most likely explanation for events.
In the letter, I note that it says that the account would need to be brought to a credit balance. 
And Mr H has explained that the account was not overdrawn and so the overdraft couldve 
just been removed by Barclays. Barclays has acknowledged that it had used the wrong 
wording in the 12 May 2022 letter. However, I dont think this changes anything, because the 
letter required Mr H to make a choice (either to keep the account as a joint account with an 
overdraft or request for the overdraft to be removed). And it made it clear that Barclays 
would not take any further action until it was informed of what course of action Mr H wanted 
to take.
In his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr H questioned why a further letter was not 
sent to confirm that the account remained in joint names due to not receiving a response to 
the 12 May 2022 letter. However, whilst it may well have helped in this specific situation (due 
to Mr H unfortunately not receiving the letter), I dont think Barclays was being unreasonable 
by not sending one - given that the 12 May 2022 letter already made it clear that the account 
wouldnt be changed until Mr H got in contact again to confirm how he would like to proceed.
Mr H also said that Barclays could easily have processed the request, removed the overdraft 
and then contacted him to say he could apply for one in his sole account. However, whilst 
that course of action may well have been preferable for Mr H, employing such a process for 
joint to sole account conversions may well disadvantage other customers going through the 
same process. For example, adopting the process suggested by Mr H - whereby the 
overdraft is automatically removed without checking with the account holders first - could 
disadvantage those customers where retaining the overdraft is more important to them than 
changing the account type.
As such, I think it was reasonable that Barclays asked Mr H to decide whether to continue 
with the account in joint names for the time being and retain the overdraft, or to change the 
account to a sole account but without an overdraft, before any change to the account was 
made.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman