DRN-2693434
The complaint
Miss W complains that she was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in October 2013 by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Miss W has sent in copies of documentation from the sale in 2013, where Nationwide are 
checking her eligibility and asking her to check the FPA is right for her. These documents 
contain key information about the benefits of the FPA.
In my view these documents indicate that its more likely than not that Miss W knew she had 
a choice about whether to take out the FPA and she chose to do so.
I can see no evidence from the documentation available that Nationwide recommended the 
FPA to her. It appears to have assisted her to check her eligibility for the FPA but there is no 
indication that it intended to, or tried, to check her suitability. So, I think its more likely than 
not that this was a non-advised sale, in other words Nationwide didnt recommend the FPA 
to her.
So Nationwide was only required to provide Miss W with enough information about the FPA 
to make an informed choice. 
And I think its more likely than not that it did. I say this because the documentation Miss W 
sent in shows she was aware of the main benefits of the FPA. And she tells us she 
subsequently made claims on the travel insurance and she registered a mobile phone for 
insurance as well.
Miss W argues that her travel claims were turned down. But as this was a non-advised sale, 
it was for her to check whether the travel insurance was suitable for her purposes. 
If Miss W feels her travel claims were turned down incorrectly, then she could raise that with 
Nationwide as a separate complaint.
So, although I know Miss W will be disappointed, Im not able to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman