DRN-3728021
The complaint
Mr L complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says Oakbrook 
didnt carry out sufficient checks and hes suffered loss as a result. To put things right, hed 
like Oakbrook to refund interest, fees and charges he paid on his loans and remove adverse 
information about the loans from his credit file.
What happened
Oakbrook lent Mr L two loans, loan 1 was taken out in September 2019 for £1,000 to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £115.96. Mr L repaid this loan in September 2020. In 
May 2021, Mr L took out loan 2, also for £1,000, for a term of 12 months with monthly 
repayments of £115.96. Mr L repaid loan 2 in January 2022.
When Mr L complained to Oakbrook, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said it carried out 
sufficient checks and those checks showed Mr L could afford the loans. Unhappy with the 
response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Oakbrook did enough before lending loan 1 and although Oakbrook should have done more 
before lending loan 2, as he hadnt seen evidence of Mr Ls circumstances at the time, he 
couldnt say what those further checks would have shown. Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakbrook is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mr L would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Oakbrook has provided evidence to show that before lending either loan, it asked Mr L for 
his income and searched his credit file. It verified Mr Ls income with his payslip before 
lending loan 1 and used an income verification tool to verify Mr Ls income at the time of loan 
2.
The checks show that at the time of loan 1Mr Ls verified income was around £2,060, he said 
he needed the loan to pay for a holiday/travel. Oakbrook used data from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) to work out Mr Ls living costs, it lent on the basis that Mr L was 
spending around £1,213, including regular credit commitments. This meant that Mr L would 
have sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments in a sustainable way. Given 
the loan amount and the term, I think Oakbrooks checks went for enough for this loan and 
there wasnt anything within those checks that suggest Mr L would struggle to repay the 
loan. So, I dont think Oakbrook was wrong to lend loan 1.
By the time of loan 2, Oakbrooks checks showed Mr Ls income had reduced to £1,834.24 
and he had defaulted on a credit account about 10 months before loan 2. Loan 2 was for a 
similar amount to loan 1 and Mr L told Oakbrook he was borrowing for a holiday/travel  
same as loan 1. I think given the recent default and the reduction in Mr Ls income, 
Oakbrook should have been looking to take its checks further before lending this loan. I dont 
think it was reasonable for it rely on a similar level of check as loan 1.
Mr L has had an opportunity to respond to the adjudicators view and following the letter 
informing him that the complaint would be looked at by an ombudsman, to provide further 
information  including evidence of his financial circumstances at the time of the loan. Mr L 
hasnt provided any further information and without this information, Im unable to say 
Oakbrook shouldnt have lent this loan as I dont know what those further checks would have 
shown.
Based on the information I have seen, Im unable to say Oakbrook was wrong to lend either 
loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman