DRN-2583462
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (formerly Merchant Investors) gave 
him unsuitable advice. 
In particular, he says it didnt make him aware that a product charge would apply to both the 
savings plans he took out with it. He says it should have advised him to cancel the first 
savings plan when he took out the second plan in 1991, to avoid incurring two product 
charges.
What happened
In 1990 Mr O took out a savings plan with Sanlam for £20 per month. In 1991 Mr O took out 
a second savings plan with Sanlam for £50 per month. 
In 2000 Mr O complained about the plans he had taken out. It appears Mr O thought the 
plans had a 10-year term but were, in fact, open ended. Sanlam upheld Mr Os complaint 
and offered him redress. 
In order to put matters right, in its final response letter dated April 2000, Sanlam said:
We have recalculated the units of the Savings Programmes from the commencement date, 
but used a setting up charge that would apply to a 10-year term contract. This charge 
reduction will increase the units of the Savings Programmes and put you in the same 
financial position had you commenced a 10-year term policy as you state you wanted.
Although, the charging structure is being amended to that of a 10-year policy the actual term 
will remain the same. Therefore, at the tenth policy anniversary' the options open to you 
would be to continue payment of the monthly premiums, make the policy paid-up and make 
no further contributions or, fully surrender the policy and take the value of the contract at that 
time.
In 2019 Mr O complained again. He said that when he took out the plans, he was not made 
aware that a product charge would be applied to each plan. He said:
I believe that I would be better off now financially had I been advised to cancel the original 
plan (commencement date 17/08/1990) and added that £20 premium to the subsequent £50 
plan (commencement date 11/03/1991). I realise that I would have lost the funds (£20 x 7 
months) that had accumulated in the original savings plan. To illustrate this I wish to draw 
your attention to the charges that appear on the report for 2018 (Annual Statement 2018) 
that identifies the £20 savings plan has a charge of £39.92 a charge %age of approx 16% of 
the annual subscriptions of £240 and the £50 savings plan also has an annual charge of 
£39.92 which is an annual charge of approx 6.5% of the annual subscription of £600.
Mr O has explained that he only became aware of the product charge that was being applied 
to each plan in May 2018, when he received a statement setting out that an annual product 
charge of £39.92 was being applied to each of his plans. Earlier statements had not included 
this information.
Sanlam said it didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. It said that Mr O had been 
made aware, when he took out the plans, that each plan would be subject to such charges 
from the outset. It also said that it wasnt possible to increase contributions to existing plans, 
so if a customer wanted to save more they would have had to take out an additional plan, 
and each plan would incur a product charge.
Our investigator said she didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. 
She noted that the product charge applied to each of Mr Os savings plans is a fixed amount, 
not a percentage of the value of the contribution. Therefore, if Mr O only held one plan he 
would only incur one product charge, rather than the two charges he incurs as he holds two 
plans. 
She considered what she thought Mr O would have done if he had been aware, at the 
outset, that he couldnt increase his contributions to his existing savings plan. She said she 
was of the view that as Mr O had wanted to increase his savings after less than a year of 
taking out the first savings plan, in August 1990, she felt it was reasonable to say he valued 
the original savings plan which was why he took out a second savings plan in 1991.
Our investigator said that if Mr O had been aware in March 1991 that he would incur a 
product charge on the second savings plan, as it wasnt possible to increase his 
contributions to his original plan, he would have needed to choose between opting for a 
further savings plan or not. 
Having considered this, she said she didnt think incurring a second product charge would 
have stopped Mr O from taking out the second plan. And she noted that if Mr O had decided 
to take out another plan with a different provider he would have incurred charges with that 
provider. In view of this she said she didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view. He said, in summary, that he felt he should have 
been advised to;
kill off the initial £20 plan after 6 months and accept that financial hit (6 x £20) and then to 
increase the new second £50 savings plan by £20 to make a monthly contribution of £70 to 
this single plan.
Cancelling my initial plan would have halved my annual fees which currently on the £20 plan 
runs at over 16% and is crippling it as a savings plan. It is clear to me that I have suffered 
financially due to the misinformation given to me at the time of product sales as the advice 
given to me was not independent or impartial and purposely skewed to benefit the company 
much more than me the client who was paying for the service. I believe their misinformation 
and poor advice was premeditated, intentional and malicious and they should remain 
accountable for this as it was a mis-sale.
Mr O said he now believed that more suitable savings products would have been available 
but said these werent offered to him at the time he took out these plans in 1990/1. 
Mr O also asked this service to investigate whether the redress he received in 2000 in 
relation to these savings plans was back-dated and added retrospectively to month 7 from 
the savings plans inception or were the adjustments added at the time of the complaint in 
2000 nearly 20 years later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered everything Mr O has said and provided in relation to this 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr O feels very strongly that he should have been advised to 
cancel the savings plan he took out in 1990 when he took out a second plan in 1991. Mr O 
says he wasnt made aware that both plans would attract a product charge or that the charge 
was a flat fee, regardless of the amount he paid into the plan.
I agree that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr O may have been better off if he had cancelled 
the first plan and instead set up a second plan with a higher contribution. But I must take into 
account that in information Mr O was provided with when he took out his plans it set out that 
a product fee would be charged for each plan. 
In a document titled The Savings Programme it set out:
We deduct a monthly Programme maintenance charge from the units allocated to your 
Programme for as long as you keep it with us. This charge has been set at £1.21 per month 
(as at 31st December 1989) and will be reviewed each year.
At the time Mr O took out the plans the rules relating to the information product providers 
had to disclose to customers were less prescriptive than they are now. But, having reviewed 
the point of sale information it appears that the product maintenance charge was disclosed 
in the material provided to Mr O. I accept that Mr O may not have read this information in 
detail, but I cant reasonably hold Sanlam responsible for this.
It isnt possible for me to know what was discussed when Mr O took out these savings plans 
in 1990/1 but at the time there was no requirement on the adviser to discuss the charges 
that applied to the plans Mr O had taken out. 
As this is the case, I cant reasonably agree that the adviser should have discussed whether 
Mr O would be better off cancelling the first plan he had taken out and contributing a higher 
amount to the second plan. I am also mindful that Mr O may have preferred to have two 
separate plans to allow more flexibility if he wanted to take the benefits from one plan but 
continue contributing to the other plan. As Sanlam explained, this wouldnt have been 
possible if he only held one plan. 
I am also mindful that in 2000 when Mr O first complained about these plans, he said he 
thought they had a 10-year term. When Mr Os complaint was upheld in 2000, Sanlam 
explained that he was free to take the benefits from these plans at their ten-year anniversary 
if he did not want to continue to use them as savings vehicles. This was explained in 
Sanlams final response letter dated April 2000. 
It said:
 Therefore, at the tenth policy anniversary' the options open to you would be to continue 
payment of the monthly premiums, make the policy paid-up and make no further 
contributions or, fully surrender the policy and take the value of the contract at that time.
Mr O has also complained that he didnt receive independent advice when he took out these 
plans in 1990/1. The adviser that arranged the plans for Mr O was a tied adviser  in other 
words he wasnt authorised to give independent financial advice and could only advise on 
Merchant Investors (now Sanlam) products. I therefore cant reasonably say the adviser 
should have given Mr O independent advice.
redress calculation in 2000I note that Mr O also asked this service to investigate whether the redress he received in 
2000 in relation to these savings plans was back-dated and added retrospectively to 
month 7 from the savings plans inception or were the adjustments added at the time of the 
complaint in 2000 nearly 20 years later.
The offer of redress Mr O received in 2000 set out: 
We have recalculated the units of the Savings Programmes from the commencement 
date, but used a setting up charge that would apply to a 10-year term contract. This charge 
reduction will increase the units of the Savings Programmes and put you in the same 
financial position had you commenced a 10-year term policy as you state you wanted.
(bold is my emphasis)
In view of this it appears that the plans were re-worked in 2000 from the commencement 
date in 1990 and 1991.
summary
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr O was hoping for. But having carefully 
considered this matter I am satisfied that the product maintenance charge was set out in the 
point of sale information provided at the time Mr O took out these plans. I appreciate that 
Mr O feels the adviser should have discussed the charges each plan would incur with him - 
and should have advised him to cancel his first plan and contribute more to the second plan 
- but there was no requirement on the adviser to do so. As this is the case, I cannot uphold 
Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman