DRN-3559920
The complaint
Mr C complains that ArchOver Limiteds actions have caused him a financial loss on peer to
peer (P2P) investments he made on its crowdfunding platform. He says its failure to
complete sufficient due diligence and monitoring of the loans resulted in him losing money.
What happened
Mr C made three investment into loans with the same borrower through ArchOvers P2P
crowdfunding platform. He made investments into loans in February 2017 (£5,000),
September 2017 (£3,000) and April 2018 (£10,000).
In the second half of 2018, ArchOver started to have concerns about the information it was
receiving from the borrower. This led to further investigation and concerns that the borrower
might be committing fraudulent activity in its reporting, to hide losses and fund other
connected businesses. Despite assurances and with an agreed repayment plan in place with
the borrower, further evidence led ArchOver to call in its all asset charge and appoint
administrators. Following this it says it uncovered a sophisticated deception  including that
debtor security was fictitious, bank statements falsified and insurance nullified. So, it started
recovery action to try and return lenders capital.
In July 2020, Mr C raised a complaint with ArchOver. He was unhappy that the promised
controls that should be in place for the loans have proved to not have been in place  and 
feels that if they were, the recovery of the loans would have been possible. He said 
ArchOver misrepresented the loans  specifically the security and protection in place. He 
said he would not have invested without the protections that were promised.
ArchOver didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said
It didnt misrepresent the P2P loans Mr C invested in and put in place the security
and checks for the loans.
It didnt provide any advice to Mr C but instead acted as a facilitator between lenders
and borrowers  and lenders pick investments suitable for their own risk appetite. Its
website, and terms and conditions make it clear that capital is at risk.
The loan description and loan definition provided to Mr C was more than adequate
for him to make an informed investment decision.
It carried out an extensive post default review of its systems and engagement with
the borrower.
It followed the correct processes and procedures with regards to the management of
the loan facility as per the terms and conditions.
Following the borrower defaulting on the loan, investigation discovered a complex
fraudulent misrepresentation by the borrower. The borrower was also using other
facilities to mask the true state of the business as it began to deteriorate.
Administrators were appointed within a week of discovering the extent of the
situation.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. I issued a Provisional 
Decision in May 2022. This is what I said:
The crux of the complaint concerns ArchOvers actions in relation to how it facilitated the
investment opportunity and the administration of the relevant loans. In particular how it
arranged for the relevant security to be placed as described in the promotion. Ive reviewed
the relevant terms and conditions, which sets out the responsibilities of ArchOver and
lenders that use the platform (in this case Mr C).
ArchOvers terms and conditions sets out the basis of this relationship. These explain:
The Platform enables Lenders to find suitable Borrowers and enables Borrowers to find
suitable Lenders. On the Platform, we list projects where Borrowers require funds and
display relevant information for lenders. We are not a Lender of money to businesses nor
are we a Borrower nor are they our accounts receivable debts, stock-in-trade or other assets
which are offered as security for repayment of borrowed funds. We act as a facilitator in
transactions and in that capacity, we may provide tools that relate to processing the
transaction and may collect repayment from a Borrower on behalf of a Lender, or collect
funds from a lender to pass to a Borrower. We are not involved in any transaction between
Borrowers and any insurance company or insurance brokers, although we may introduce a
Borrower to an insurance broker with regard to our Secured and Insured service. We do not
act as agent for the Borrower or Lenders but merely facilitate the communication between
the Borrower and the Lenders and carry out some administrative tasks on behalf of the
Lender in connection with the borrowing/lending or potential borrowing/lending, or facilitate
the initial introduction of a Borrower and any Insurance Broker. As a result, the loan and
security documentation are between each Lender and the Borrower (although we may be a
party in the capacity of an administrator or security trustee) and each part of an actual or
potential contract between a Borrower and a Lender (including without limitation the truth
and accuracy of the warranties and assurances given, ability of Borrowers to repay or the
ability of a Lender to lend) is solely the responsibility of the Borrower and Lender and it is the
Lenders and Borrowers responsibility to verify these matters and the information provided,
or in the case of insurance, is between the Borrower and the insurance company, again with
each of the Borrower and the insurance company having the responsibility to verify the
information provided and the ability of the other to carry out its contractual obligations. We
therefore disclaim all liability and responsibility relating to the content, information
and materials posted by Borrowers and Lenders and any reliance placed on this by
you.
Essentially the relationship involves ArchOver bringing together prospective borrowers and
lenders through the operation of a crowdfunding platform. It presents information on lending
opportunities that investors can put funds towards. Lenders (such as Mr C) appoint
ArchOver to act as its agent in relation to the loans they invest in.
The loans subject to this complaint were taken on the basis of the Secured & Insured (S&I)
service provided by ArchOver. This meant the loans were considered to have added
protection compared to the other services provided on the platform. In summary this meant
the following would be in place:
An all assets first ranking charge in place against the Borrower, registered at
Companies House.
Borrower was to take out credit insurance over their Accounts Receivables to
minimise the risk of bad insurance firm.
Credit analysis, due diligence and monthly monitoring of the Borrower.
A controlled bank account owned by ArchOver.
In reaching my decision on the complaint, alongside the relevant terms Ive taken intoaccount the regulatory obligations placed upon ArchOver at the time. The Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements
which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and
diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and
not misleading.
ArchOver is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving the promotional material for the loans, ArchOver needed to satisfy itself
that the campaign itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied
that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest, it would continue to be
acting in its clients best interests. So this means I dont find that its fair for ArchOver to rely
on the terms and conditions to disclaim liability and responsibility relating to the content,
information and materials provided by the borrower.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself, ArchOver would need to carry out reasonable
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given
case, is something which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary
according to the particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to
provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
This is supported by what the FCA said in its July 2018 consultation paper on loan-based
(peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential
information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCAs consultation paper was issued after Mr Cs investment into the loans. But I
consider the content has relevance when thinking about ArchOvers responsibilities. I say
this because they clearly set out the FCAs view on good practice and compliance with
existing rules and principles, applicable to at the time the investment was made.
Loans taken out in February and September 2017
For the first two loans Mr C invested in, Im not minded to reach a decision that ArchOver is
responsible for the losses claimed. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive reviewed the documents (the funding request) ArchOver produced to promote
the loans to investors. These provide detail of the amount being requested for funding and
purpose it was to be used for, details of the borrower company  including financialinformation. It also provides details of what the security for the loans was and the insurance
in place. The promotions also confirm that capital is at risk and provide a link to the risk
warnings on ArchOvers website. These confirm the risk of the borrowers business failing
and interest and capital payments arent guaranteed, meaning you could lose all the capital
invested.
Having reviewed the promotions for these loans, I havent identified a falling in the way they
were presented. Ive considered whether the information contained within them was clear,
fair and not misleading. The crux of the issues Mr C has raised surround the various
protections that ArchOver should have had in place for a Secured & Insured loan and in his
view were not fully in place in one way or another. Ive paid particular attention to the
security that was described, and the concerns Mr C has raised about how ArchOver has put
this in place.
Ive seen evidence that the security was put in place and a fixed charge was registered. I
acknowledge that once the loans were defaulted, ArchOver discovered through its recovery
action that funds hadnt passed through its controlled account as expected -which essentially
meant that the security couldnt be realised to repay investors. There is a disagreement
between the borrowers business bankers and ArchOver about whether this should have
happened in light of the charge that was registered. ArchOver has conceded that it was
unlikely to win legal action against the bankers. I accept this is a complex issue and it isnt
straightforward to understand who is at fault for the situation. In order to uphold Mr Cs
complaint and say that ArchOver had mis-represented the security in the promotion, Id need
to be satisfied that the information it provided was unclear or misleading.
Im satisfied ArchOver didnt mislead Mr C about the security. The fact a charge was
registered supports the validity of the information in the two funding request documents for
the loans. During the recovery action, after default it established that significant falsification
and hidden losses meant that the expected assets werent available to be used to return Mr
Cs investment. One reason why the security wasnt effective in the recovery action, appears
to be due to technical drafting of the fixed charge, making it difficult for ArchOver to
challenge the way the borrowers bankers had allowed funds to flow outside of the controlled
account. ArchOver is in dispute with the solicitors who drafted the fixed charge. It says it
was entitled to rely on the professional advice it took when registering the charge, so cant
be blamed for any drafting errors. Im also conscious that when ArchOver challenged the
bankers, they sought to defend their position legally  I understand on multiple grounds. As
part of the recovery action and following legal advice, ArchOver has decided a claim against
the drafting solicitors rather than bankers had more chance of success  which based on
what Ive seen seems a reasonable position to take. All of this leads me to the conclusion
that even with the security in place, there was a risk that it wouldnt be sufficient to prevent
losses to investors. This was largely due to the actions of the borrower (and its bankers) 
which I dont find ArchOver can be held responsible for.
I understand Mr Cs concerns about the security, but on balance I dont think there are
sufficient grounds to say failings by ArchOver in how it was described in the loan promotion
amount to misleading information being provided. There are a number of factors that have
resulted in the security not being easily realisable. In order to reach a conclusion that
misleading information about the security was provided by ArchOver, Id need to be satisfied
that the charge wasnt in place. Based on the available evidence, I dont think I can say to be
the case. The issues relating to the validity of the charge are still in dispute and form part of
the recovery action  which if successful would lead to Mr C receiving money returned to him
to reduce the losses he says he has suffered.
As mentioned above these loans were described as secured and insured. So, Ive looked at
how the insurance element was presented to Mr C. The funding request reports for bothloans say one of the risk mitigation factors is that there is credit insurance (on the borrowers
clients or debtors) in place through an insurance policy. Im satisfied the insurance was in
place but acknowledge it hasnt been able to be used for a successful claim. Ive looked at
the lender terms and conditions that were relevant to Mr Cs account. These provide the
following description for lenders about the credit insurance:
[lender] understands that any insurance cover taken out by the Borrower, as required
pursuant to the applicable service, may not cover all accounts receivable lent against and
that it may not recover all money lent or applicable interest or return on investment;
So, I think this is clear to show that any insurance in place wasnt guaranteed to recover
capital and interest. With these particular loans I understand a claim wasnt successful due
to the alleged fraudulent misrepresentation by the borrower. Im persuaded that ArchOver
did provide clear information about the insurance. The fact a claim wasnt successful,
doesnt in my opinion mean Mr C was misled about the insurance. And I dont find that it can
be held responsible for the actions of the borrower.
Ive also looked at the information ArchOver has provided to show that it had undertaken
enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential information which the loan promotions
were based. Ive seen evidence of the checks ArchOver completed when firstly on boarding
the borrower to the platform and also before agreeing for these two loans to be made
available to investors on the platform. This included a credit analysis, which looked into
background checks on directors and shareholders, reviewing management accounts and an
analysis of business. For each loan a series of checks completed by both a loan and credit
manager was completed before sign off. As part of the reports completed, information was
gathered on the security  including validating the Bills of Exchange (BOEs) presented by
the borrower. ArchOver confirmed these were validated against the borrowers management
accounts - which were supplied by its professional accountants.
While it now appears that some of the information ArchOver gathered was inaccurate, it
doesnt mean it must have failed Mr C. After the loan defaulted, further information has come
to light about the information ArchOver was provided with by the borrower and its
accountants. This appears to indicate false information was provided, which misled
ArchOver as to the value of the security. Having considered the evidence provided  Im
satisfied that ArchOver did complete sufficient due diligence to comply with its obligations
and I cant hold it responsible for the actions of the borrower. I think it completed
proportionate checks and it was reasonable to rely in the information it was provided with
before promoting these two loans.
I note Mr C has raised concerns about the monitoring of the borrower and its capability of
meeting the loan repayments. As mentioned above, Ive seen evidence of the due diligence
that ArchOver completed before each loan was promoted and also that there were active
discussions with the borrower about repayments. I do have some concerns about how the
information ArchOver gathered as part of its monitoring was used to promote the third loan,
which I will discuss below.
Mr C also raised a point about ArchOvers parent company lending separately to the
borrower and this presented an incentive to approve refinance loans to protect the parent
companys investment and created a conflict of interest. I havent seen anything that would
lead me to say there was a conflict of interest, or that this impacts the promotion of the loans
Mr C decided to invest in. If Mr C has further information to support this aspect of his
complaint, he should provide this, and I will consider it further.
In summary, I dont intend on upholding Mr Cs complaint about these two loans. As per the
risks warning provided, this type of investment didnt provide a guaranteed return of capitaland interest even though they were secured and insured loans. The risks that did materialise
and resulted in the (current) failure to recover funds were in my view as a result of matters
that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect ArchOver to have known about or been able
to foresee at the time it promoted these loans. It wouldnt be fair on the basis of hindsight,
where errors and alleged fraud have come to light, to expect ArchOver to have known about
them. It follows that Im satisfied it didnt just approve the promotion at face value or without
checking security was in place  and it was reasonable for ArchOver to conclude on the
basis of the information available at the time that the information wasnt misleading.
Loan taken out in April 2018
I do have concerns about the last loan that Mr C invested into in April 2018  and Im
currently minded to uphold this part of the complaint.
My first concern centres around whether ArchOver completed sufficient due diligence before
promoting and allowing investors to lend. Ive seen evidence that ArchOver were aware of
issues with funds not flowing through the controlled account as early as January 2018. It
says the borrowers bank manager called in early 2018 and challenged ArchOver
on this. It says the call was instigated by the borrower, who knew the bank manager well.
ArchOver has told us that as a result of this call it sent a communication to the bank to warn
that all instruments and credits should flow through the controlled account and no consent
was given (due to the fixed charge in place) for funds to flow through another account.
ArchOver says it felt this was sufficient to resolve the issues identified.
Not long after this, ArchOver promoted the last loan Mr C invested in. We have asked
ArchOver to explain what checks it did to ensure that the borrower was now passing funds
correctly through the controlled account and not an alternative account  so as to ensure the
statements in the loan promotion were accurate. ArchOver said it received accounts
information from the borrowers accountant  and while this wasnt actual bank statements it
was satisfied that this was sufficient to show funds were flowing through the accounts
correctly. And it was only after appointing the administrators and when they recovered the
full bank statements that it could see the reported accounts information was considerably
different to the true position.
Ive considered this information in light of the responsibility for ArchOver to act in the clients
best interests (in this case Mr C as an investor in the loan) before allowing it to be promoted
on the platform. Specifically, did it undertake enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the
essential information on which any communication or promotion is based. In light of the
known issues of funds not flowing correctly through accounts only a few months before the
loan was promoted, I think it would have reasonable for ArchOver to make checks beyond
relying on the financial information produced by the accountant. In my view, completing
further checks would likely, based on the information uncovered in the recovery action, have
led to further scrutiny of the borrowers financial position and consideration of whether the
information in the promotion was accurate.
I appreciate that ArchOver say they are entitled to rely on the integrity and professionalism of
a chartered accounting firm and that the documents supplied are a true reflection of the
business. But all rules and obligations must be considered in all the circumstances and the
particular context of the loan promotion. In the particular circumstances of knowing that the
borrower hadnt been adhering to the expected use of accounts in the past, I think additional
checks should have been completed. ArchOver did have reason to complete more checks
than it may usually have done, in light of the issues they had encountered only months
beforehand. Had it have done this then, on balance, Im persuaded it would have uncovered
further concerns about the validity of the security  which would have prevented the loan
being available for Mr C to invest in.Ive also found another reason to indicate that ArchOver has failed in its obligations to Mr C
in respect of this loan. My other concern surrounds the requirement to ensure the
information provided about the investment opportunity is clear, fair and not misleading. In the
lender updates that were provided after the loan defaulted, it details that ArchOver were
advised in March 2018 that a client (and a debtor) of the borrowers was in difficulties to the
extent the borrower had to step in and take over the business to protect its, and by extension
ArchOvers position. Shortly after this ArchOver promoted the April 2018 loan. Ive reviewed
the promotion and noted the following statements:
We review all clients financial situations on an ongoing basis so that immediate action can
be taken if warning signs emerge e.g. overdue debtors and creditors;
The difference between investors in other platforms and those investing in ArchOver is the
latter have less risk. This is because the loan monies are spread over more than one debtor,
whilst in the former example, loan monies are usually specific to one debtor.
We have a strong pipeline with our current clients who continue to revolve their current
facilities.
This information indicates a very positive position on the borrower and its client base and
there is a reduced risk. In the period shortly before and at the time of promoting this loan,
ArchOver says it received reassurances from the borrower and its accountants about the
exposure to the distressed client and that there was no undue concern. However, it later
transpired through the administration process that the client in question was the borrowers
largest debtor. ArchOver say it wasnt aware of this until the recovery investigation
uncovered this fact.
My concerns are that the loan promotion presents that the borrower and its clients were in a
strong position. The above statements indicate that finances are reviewed and immediate
action can be taken in circumstances like overdue debtors. And that theres lots of
diversification to reduce the risk. With this loan, there are factors that played into both of
these statements. So its reasonable for a potential investor (like Mr C) reading the
promotion to assume if that were the case ArchOver would be on top of it  and certainly
would mention it. ArchOver was aware of issues with the borrower at the time of loan
promotion as it knew as early as March 2018 of difficulties with clients that required the
borrower step in to protect its position. And given it claims to review all clients financial
situations on an ongoing basis so immediate action can be taken if warning signs emerge 
it ought to have known the seriousness of the situation  and if it didnt, thats a failing in
itself. Within the loan promotion there is no indication of problems with clients and rather an
extremely positive picture of the client base was presented. While its unclear exactly how
much ArchOver knew about the exposure to this client, it knew there was a problem  so it
was misleading not to reflect this. Had this information been made clear to Mr C, I think it
would have led to him making a different decision on whether to invest in this loan.
Taking both of the concerns I have about this loan, I think there have been failings by
ArchOver that have led to Mr C investing in this loan when he otherwise wouldnt have 
Within my provisional findings I also proposed how ArchOver should put this right for Mr C  
this is what I said:
As Ive reached the finding that Mr C would not have invested in this loan, I next need to
decide what he would have otherwise done with the money he invested.
Having carefully considered all the available information and evidence, I currently think the
fairest way to compensate Mr C is to assume a rate of return that is equal to average returnon loans of a similar risk profile (i.e. Secured and Insured loans) on ArchOvers platform. I
say this because Im satisfied that Mr C would have continued to invest on the platform, but I
take the view that he would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what
he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances when he invested.
My proposed compensation calculation requires ArchOver to:
calculate how much Mr C has received back from his initial investment into the third
loan - including any interest and funds that have been recovered and returned to him, 
the actual value;
then calculate how much Mr C wouldve received from an *average rate of return for
loans of similar risk across the platform from the date he invested in loan the third
loan until the end date of the term for that loan (B) - the fair value.
If B is greater than A, ArchOver should pay Mr C the difference. It should add additional
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the loan end date to the date of
settlement**. If A is greater than B, then Mr C hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will
be no financial compensation to pay.
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and
any default rates.
** Mr C has indicated that at the end of the term he would have used the returned capital to
pay off debts. Also, by this point he would have been aware of the default of on his other two
loans. So, I think its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have invested further on the platform
after this date, so any loss should be crystallised from this point.
Finally, As ArchOver are still pursuing recovery actions on the loan  if these are still
ongoing at the date of settlement, ArchOver should take ownership of the loan. If it is not
possible for ArchOver to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr C that
he repays any amount he may receive from the recovery distributions in the future. This is
because it wouldnt be fair for Mr C to benefit from any future payments received from the
loan when hes already been compensated.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision. In summary he said if ArchOver agree to the 
outcome provided, he would be prepared to accept it  including the compensation 
calculation set out for the and repayment of the Third Loan. But if ArchOver dont agree he 
thinks further investigation is warranted in respect of the point hes raised in relation to the 
loan position of ArchOver and its parent company, to this particular borrower. 
ArchOver responded and provided further comments for me to consider in summary it said:
- ArchOver does not act as an agent for the Lender. Its terms and conditions and 
Facility Agreements are governed by 36H and it only act as a facilitator between 
parties (Lender and Borrower) and as a Trustee for Lenders when a loan is live. This 
is an important point with relation to paragraph 4 page 5 of the Ombudsmans 
findings around financial promotion. The documentation is written and signed off for 
publication by the Borrower, not ArchOver. Its responsibility is as facilitator, but it 
does take extra steps to validate any statements made by the Borrower are correct.
- For the April 2018 loan, the Ombudsman makes a case around failure to make 
additional checks by ArchOver but fails to detail what these additional checks could 
have been. It carried out additional due diligence over the previous loans and it was 
heavily engaged with the borrower at meetings, along with the directors and key staff 
members (Head of Risk etc.) to discuss its worries. It also met with the professional 
advisors, where it asked for additional information to back up what was being talked about and it was satisfied by flow of funds etc. It was also directly in contact with the 
borrowers bankers around the current account not being used.
- It is entitled to rely on the integrity of a chartered accounting firm, so doesnt 
understand why it is suggested it should not have been so reliant i.e. carried out 
more checks for the April 2018 loan. The validity of professional advisors is 
absolutely key and that is why it met and discussed with them a number of points to 
back up the information provided by the borrower.
- It was comfortable with the statements made by the borrower in the financial 
promotion. Research indicates that about 30% of SMEs suffer bad debts each year. 
Working with many hundreds of companies, ArchOver regularly see bad debts. It 
would not be normal for any firm seeking finance over a P2P platform to detail every 
bad debt, so it doesnt see why it would be relevant to this borrower.
- The statement we review all clients financial situation.so that immediate action can 
be taken if warning signs emerge is true. This was clearly demonstrated when the 
borrower stepped into the distressed client and took control.
- There is a paragraph that attempts to make the point that there is a wide spread of 
debtors  something ArchOver could validate with the debtor book, so no reason why 
this statement could not be made. The borrower also demonstrated in the meetings 
that it had a strong pipeline, so again there is no reason why this statement should 
not have been in the Funding Request.
- The Ombudsman makes a presumption that he believes Mr C would likely not have 
invested if the Funding Request had more information been available. Its records 
indicate Mr C never reviewed the Funding Request document, but instead logged in, 
pledged, clicked the wire transfer and left the site. Based on this, its hard to 
understand how Mr C could have been misled by the Funding Request if he never 
read it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further comments made by ArchOver, Ive not found reason to 
change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
Firstly, I note the further comments made about ArchOvers role in this investment  
including the references made to the terms and conditions. I also acknowledge the point that 
the Funding Request was written by the borrower  but ArchOver did take steps to validate 
any statements made. As an operator of an electronic system in relation to lending in relation 
to P2P agreements, ArchOver had regulatory principles and obligations it needed to follow. 
This applies to the facilitation of the loans Mr C invested in. I set out the most relevant in my 
provisional decision  but for completeness I will repeat them below:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and
diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and
not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financialpromotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
 
As I havent received further comments on the first two loans Mr C invested in as part of this 
complaint, my findings remain the same as those set out above in my provisional findings. 
In respect of the third loan taken out in April 2018, ArchOver has raised further points for me 
to consider. Ive noted the comments about the checks that ArchOver completed before 
making this loan available to investors. I also understand the points being made about 
relying on professional advisors. But I find the circumstances materially different between the 
first two loans Mr C complains about compared to the third loan. As Ive previously 
explained, ArchOver needed to be satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its 
customers to invest, it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. To satisfy this 
requirement it would need to carry out reasonable checks and this is something it needed to 
decide based on the particular circumstances of the investment opportunity it was promoting 
into this loan. 
The key point here is that in early 2018 ArchOver had concerns about the borrower - and 
this was prior to this loan being agreed. It has acknowledged there were known issues of 
funds not flowing correctly through accounts only a few months before the loan was 
promoted. ArchOver told us it had received a call from the borrowers bank manager 
challenging the flow of funds through accounts. Ive seen the letter ArchOver sent following 
this conversation to press home its point that funds must not pass through alternative 
accounts. Im not persuaded that this letter provides clear confirmation that an agreement 
had been reached. And Ive not seen that the borrower or the bank responded to that letter 
to acknowledge that it agreed to the content. It comes across as more of a stand-off than a 
resolution of a disagreement.
So, in this circumstance, when promoting loan three I think it would have been reasonable 
for ArchOver to take steps in its due diligence to show how it satisfied that the earlier 
concerns it had were no longer an issue. It is not for me to say what additional checks it 
should have completed, but clearly during the administration process only months later 
ArchOver was able to undercover significant issues. It has explained in the default report it 
obtained copies of full bank statements  and it confirmed these showed a considerably 
different position to the management information it had received from the borrower.  So this 
is just one example of checks that could have been completed and led to the loan not being 
made available to invest in. It remains that Im persuaded ArchOver failed to fulfil its 
obligations  specifically in respect of Principle 2 (conducting its business with due skill, care 
and diligence) and Principle 6 (paying regard customers interests and treating them fairly). 
Had it done so, I don't think it ought to have gone ahead and placed the loan on the platform 
for Mr C to invest in. 
Ive considered the comments ArchOver have made about the Funding Request document 
being clear, fair and not misleading  which was its obligation as it was financial promotion 
that it approved. As mention above, whether the borrower wrote the document or ArchOver 
did, it still had obligations to ensure the contents met that criteria. I acknowledge the points 
about the statements made in the document. But when considered with the information 
available to ArchOver about the borrowers business, I remain of the opinion that it was 
misleading for ArchOver to know of the problem, but for this not to be reflected in any way. 
With regards to whether Mr C read the pitch before he invested. Mr C says as it was more 
than four years ago, he cant specifically remember exactly what he reviewed. He said his 
decision to invest was based on the information provided to him by ArchOver  this included 
the projects Management Summary. But he wouldnt have made the decision to invest in 
this particular loan solely on the above. He says ArchOver provided detailed information to him about the borrower  which was continuous good news reported on the many great and 
important projects that the borrower had supported with ArchOver loans. 
On balance, I dont think Mr C invested without reviewing any information from ArchOver but 
I cant be certain that he relied on the statements Ive highlighted in the Funding Request.  
But even, if he didnt rely on them to make his decision to invest, Ive found another reason 
why the complaint should be upheld (detailed above), which isnt specifically related to the 
highlighted statements in the Funding Request document. 
Having considered the further submission provided by ArchOver, I havent found reasons to 
change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. So, it follows that I uphold the 
complaint made about the sale of loan three in April 2018. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
C as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not have invested in this 
loan. So Ive considered what he would have otherwise done with the money he invested.
Having carefully considered all the available information and evidence, I think the
fairest way to compensate Mr C is to assume a rate of return that is equal to average return
on loans of a similar risk profile (i.e. Secured and Insured loans) on ArchOvers platform. I
say this because Im satisfied that Mr C would have continued to invest on the platform, but I
take the view that he would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what
he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances when he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly, ArchOver must:
calculate how much Mr C has received back from his initial investment into the third
loan - including any interest and funds that have been recovered and returned to him, 
the actual value;
then calculate how much Mr C wouldve received from an *average rate of return for
loans of similar risk across the platform from the date he invested in loan the third
loan until the end date of the term for that loan (B) - the fair value.
If B is greater than A, ArchOver should pay Mr C the difference. It should add additional
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the loan end date to the date of
settlement**. If A is greater than B, then Mr C hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will
be no financial compensation to pay.
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and
any default rates.
** Mr C has indicated that at the end of the term he would have used the returned capital to
pay off debts. Also, by this point he would have been aware of the default of on his other two
loans. So, I think its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have invested further on the platform
after this date, so any loss should be crystallised from this point.
Finally, As ArchOver are still pursuing recovery actions on the loan  if these are still
ongoing at the date of settlement, ArchOver should take ownership of the loan. If it is not
possible for ArchOver to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr C that
he repays any amount he may receive from the recovery distributions in the future. This is
because it wouldnt be fair for Mr C to benefit from any future payments received from the
loan when hes already been compensated.My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. My final decision is that ArchOver Limited should pay Mr C 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman