DRN-1950123
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out a total of six loans with Mr Lender between June 2012 and October 2016.
Loan no. Date 
borrowedDate repaid Amount Instalments
1 11.06.12 28.06.12 £200 1
2 28.06.12 14.06.13 £400 1
3 08.12.15 26.02.16 £350 3
4 28.02.16 27.05.16 £500 3
5 08.07.16 28.09.16 £500 3
6 29.10.16 27.01.17 £700 3
Mr W repaid all the loans on time except for loan 2, on which he deferred repayment ten 
times.
Mr W says he was in financial difficulty, and he believes that if Mr Lender had carried out 
adequate checks it would have realised this.
In its response to Mr Ws complaint, Mr Lender didnt agree that it had been irresponsible to 
make the loans. But it offered Mr W a retail voucher as a gesture of goodwill. Mr W wasnt 
happy with Mr Lenders offer, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator originally thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have allowed Mr W to roll over 
loan 2 after the third rollover, and shouldnt have made any of the loans after that. But he 
subsequently revised his view, and explained that he no longer thought that Mr Lender had 
been wrong to make loans 3 and 4. He did, however, still think that it shouldnt have agreed 
to roll loan 2 over more than three times, or to make loans 5 or 6. So he said Mr Lender 
should pay Mr W some compensation. And he said it should remove any negative 
information about loan 2 (from the fourth rollover onwards) and all information about loans 5 
and 6 from Mr Ws credit file.
After the adjudicator sent out his revised view, Mr Lender offered to do as he had 
recommended, but only in relation to loans 5 and 6. Mr W wasnt happy with Mr Lenders 
offer, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr Lenders told us about the checks it did before it lent to Mr W. It asked him for details of 
his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the 
loans. Ive seen a summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that 
should have caused additional concerns to Mr Lender.
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing to make the first two loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr W needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information 
that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the 
first two loans.In the event, Mr W was unable to repay loan 2 as planned. Mr Lender allowed him to 
defer his repayment by a month and pay some additional interest. As I've mentioned 
above, this happened on ten occasions.
In 2012, when Mr W took out loan 2 and asked to defer his repayment, there was no 
regulation about how many times a consumer should be allowed to rollover their borrowing. 
A regulation was introduced later, in 2014. But in early 2012 some best practice was 
already beginning to emerge that a maximum of three rollovers should be allowed. And by 
the time of the fourth rollover in October 2012, that guidance had become mandatory for 
members of some lending trade bodies. So I think it would be reasonable to say that by 
October 2012, a maximum of three rollovers was considered to be good industry practice.
Repeated rollovers are likely to be an indicator that a consumer is facing serious 
problems managing their finances. In the end, Mr Lender set up an affordable repayment 
plan, and applied an interest discount of £45 to the loan. Im satisfied that it treated Mr W 
positively and sympathetically in doing so. But I think it should have offered to help earlier, 
rather than repeatedly agreeing to roll over the repayment and charging Mr W an 
additional months interest. And I think it should have declined any more rollovers from 
October 2012 onwards. 
After Mr W finished repaying loan 2, he didnt borrow again from Mr Lender for nearly two 
and a half years. Thats a significant gap, and I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to 
consider that it was likely that Mr W had overcome his previous financial difficulties. So 
I think it was reasonable of it to treat him as a new customer, and to base its checks 
accordingly.
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing loans 3 and 4 were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr W needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances 
at the time and his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing loans 3 and 4.
Mr Lender has already offered to do as the adjudicator recommended in relation to loans 5 
and 6. Since thats in line with our usual approach in this type of case, I wont comment on 
those loans here. 
Putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to allow Mr W to rollover loan 2 from the fourth 
rollover that was made in October 2012 onwards, or to make loan 5 or 6 to Mr W. So 
Mr Lender should;
Refund any interest and charges Mr W paid to rollover loan 2 from the fourth rollover 
onwards;
Refund any interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 5 and 6.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file about loan 2 from the 
fourth rollover onwards;Remove all information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Ws credit file, because by the 
time Mr Lender agreed those loans, any information recorded on his credit file about 
them was adverse in and of itself.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman