DRN-3835670
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim for 
malicious damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Bs roof was leaking so she arranged for a roofer to repair it. When the roofer started 
the work, Miss B realised there was an issue with the roofers work. She asked him to redo 
it, but he didnt reply to any messages. She then found that he wasnt a genuine roofer and 
the insurance document he had provided was fake. Miss B got quotes from other builders to 
repair the work. The builders told her she would need a new roof, as there was no way to 
repair it.
Miss B reported the person to the police and contacted Aviva to make a claim for malicious 
damage. Aviva declined the claim. It said it was faulty workmanship, which wasnt covered 
by the policy.
When Miss B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said there wasnt evidence to show the persons intent was to cause further damage. He 
said the further damage was poor workmanship by an unqualified person.
As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy provided cover for loss or damage to the buildings caused by malicious people or 
vandals. I would normally consider that damage was malicious if the person intended harm 
by damaging the property. Im aware Miss B has referred to fraud and forgery offences and a 
criminal law definition of vandalism. It is my understanding that the police and others have 
been involved in this case and with other work carried out by the person.
Miss B said she wouldnt have allowed the person anywhere near her home if she had been 
aware of his deception and that if he had considered himself to be competent, he wouldnt 
have hidden his identity or provided fake insurance documents. Miss B also said the person 
had vandalised her property through recklessness and that when he started the work, it 
became clear he wasnt capable of doing the work. Miss B said it wasnt incompetence. She 
said it was malicious intent to deceive for his financial gain with no regard given to the 
damage to her property.
Ive thought about this carefully. Its clear Miss B has strong views about what happened, 
which I can understand. Miss B has explained why she thinks the person acted as they did, 
which included financial gain. It also appears the person did work on Miss Bs roof but, 
seemingly, without the knowledge or skills to do so. Having thought about this, Im not 
persuaded that the persons intention was to cause damage to the roof. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the damage to the roof was the result 
of a lack of roofing skills and knowledge. This isnt covered by the policy.
So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman