DRN-1769417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Society of  Lloyds has turned down a cancellation claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by their solicitor, who Ill call D.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday abroad.  They were due to travel on 12 
November 2018. Unfortunately, Mr Ms father sadly passed away due to a heart attack. So 
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
costs associated with the cancellation.
Lloyds looked into Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It obtained a copy of Mr Ms fathers medical 
records and noted that hed had a number of medical conditions, which it considered were 
linked to the heart attack hed suffered. These conditions included: stroke, peripheral 
vascular disease, heart failure, alcoholic cardiomyopathy, left ventricular failure, COPD and 
high blood pressure. It also concluded that Mr and Mrs M had likely been aware of Mr Ms 
fathers medical conditions. The policy specifically excluded claims which happened because 
of any medical condition of a close relative which a policyholder was aware of. On this basis, 
Lloyds considered that Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Lloyds decision and so D asked us to look into their 
complaint. D didnt dispute that Mr Ms fathers heart attack had been linked to his pre-
existing medical conditions. But it said that Mr and Mrs M hadnt known about Mr Ms fathers 
medical conditions. Theyd known hed undergone amputation surgery in 2017, but they 
hadnt realised that this surgery was linked to other existing conditions hed had. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He considered that 
the medical records showed that Mr Ms father had a long history of medical issues, which 
neither party disputed were linked to the heart attack hed suffered. He also noted that the 
medical records made reference to members of Mr Ms family being present during clinical 
discussions. So he felt it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M had been aware of Mr 
Ms fathers medical conditions when they took out the policy and booked their trip. Overall, 
he thought it had been reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that the claim was specifically 
excluded from cover. 
D disagreed. Ive summarised its response. It maintained that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been 
aware of Mr Ms fathers medical conditions. It said Mr and Mrs M hadnt been at the hospital 
when clinical discussions were taking place around Mr Ms fathers amputation surgery and 
that they werent named in the medical records. Mr and Mrs M had understood the cause of 
the amputations to be an infection in his foot. D argued that Mr Ms fathers medical 
conditions had come as news to them and that Mr Ms siblings also hadnt known about his 
conditions. It said that Mr Ms father had been a very private man, whod wanted to shield his 
family from his health concerns. So it considered Mr and Mrs M were being penalised for Mr 
Ms father keeping his medical history private. It said it was unreasonable to expect relatives 
of policyholders to carry out a health questionnaire prior to a policyholder travelling. And it 
felt Lloyds should take more responsibility to explain to policyholders what was expected of 
them. It stated that parties should be equally entitled to benefit when weighing up the 
balance of probabilities  it considered Lloyds had the advantage of this test.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to offer Mr and Mrs M my sincere condolences for their sad loss. I dont doubt 
what an upsetting time this mustve been for them and I sympathise with their position. But in 
deciding whether Lloyds handled the claim fairly, I need to think about, amongst other 
things, the relevant regulators rules, the policy terms and conditions, the circumstances of 
the claim and the available evidence.
It seems to me that there are three key issues for me to consider: the policy terms; whether 
the cause of the claim was linked to Mr Ms fathers existing conditions and whether or not I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew about those medical conditions. Ill 
consider each of these in turn.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy
Ive first carefully considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as this 
formed the basis of their contract with Lloyds. Page 4 of the policy document includes 
Important Information. Immediately underneath is a section called Pre-Existing Medical 
Conditions. This says:
You will not be covered for any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
-Any medical condition of a close relative or close business colleague that you are 
aware of.
UNLESS you have declared the medical conditions to our medical screening lineand cover 
has been agreed in writing.
In my view, this term has been clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions. Im satisfied 
it explains that Lloyds wont cover any claims which are either directly or indirectly linked to 
medical conditions of a policyholders close relative if a policyholder knows about them 
unless its medical screening line has agreed to cover these conditions. 
It might be helpful if I explain that most travel insurance policies contain similar terms and 
exclude cover for any medical conditions of non-travelling relatives which a policyholder is 
aware of when they buy a policy or book a trip.Was the cause of the claim linked to Mr Ms fathers pre-existing medical conditions?
Like our investigator, Ive looked closely at Mr Ms fathers medical records to understand his 
medical history at the point Mr and Mrs M took out their policy and booked their trip. I can 
see that Mr Ms father was diagnosed with heart failure, left ventricular failure and high blood 
pressure in 2004. He had a mini-stroke in 2008 and was diagnosed with alcoholic 
cardiomyopathy in 2009. Subsequently, in 2015, he was diagnosed with Peripheral Vascular 
Disease and in 2016, with COPD. And in May and August 2017, Mr M underwent amputation 
surgery on both legs. The cause of the right-sided amputation was deemed to be down to 
Peripheral Artery Disease and the cause of the left was critical limb ischaemia and arterial 
disease.
The policy terms require the condition causing the claim to be directly or indirectly linked to a 
close relatives existing conditions. While D hasnt disputed such a link, I asked Lloyds 
medical team to provide its opinion on whether there was a link between Mr Ms fathers 
medical conditions and his heart attack. Lloyds said that Mr Ms father: had an extensive 
cardiac pre-existing medical history which would be a contributing factor to the cause of 
death and put them at higher risk. It also added: we believe that on the balance of 
probabilities sadly Mr (Ms fathers) death was linked to his previous cardiac condition and 
problems.
Based on Lloyds comments and the opinion of its medical team, I think it was fair for it to 
conclude that Mr Ms fathers heart attack was directly or indirectly linked to his existing 
medical history.
Was it fair for Lloyds to conclude that Mr and Mrs M were aware of Mr Ms fathers health 
conditions?
Ive considered this question very carefully. On the one hand, Lloyds thinks Mr and Mrs M 
were most likely aware of Mr Ms fathers health concerns. On the other, D says that Mr Ms 
father was a very private person who kept his health private. In considering this question, I 
need to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely 
to have happened, given the available evidence.
Again, Ive referred closely to Mr Ms fathers medical records. I accept that neither Mr nor 
Mrs M are mentioned by name in the records as being present during Mr Ms clinical 
consultations. However, its clear that both Mr Ms mother and his sister knew about at least 
some of Mr Ms fathers conditions, as these were specifically discussed with his doctors on 
his behalf. So while I note D said none of Mr Ms siblings knew about his fathers health 
concerns, it seems at least one of his siblings was aware of at least some of his medical 
issues. It also seems Mr Ms mother was present at some of his consultations. The hospital 
notes from the time of Mr Ms fathers amputation state that Mr Ms father had five children, 
who might be able to help with shopping. And that discussions were had before right limb 
amputation with Mr Ms fathers family regarding management of the wound versus surgery.
I accept its possible that Mr and Mrs M mightve understood that the amputation surgery 
was only for an infection. But given it seems the treating doctors discussed Mr Ms fathers 
proposed surgery with his family before he underwent amputation, I think its more likely than 
not that the medical team wouldve explained the underlying causes which had led to 
amputation becoming necessary. I also think its likely the underlying causes of left limb 
amputation were likely to be discussed too. I say that because Mr Ms father had undergone 
both femoral artery and posterior tibial angioplasty surgery shortly beforehand, which hadnt 
led to improvement. In my view, it appears that Mr Ms mother and sister knew about at least some of his fathers 
existing health issues and that these had been discussed with the wider family. I also think, 
given that Mr Ms father had suffered from cardiac failure and ventricle dysfunction for 
several years, for which he was under annual review, that its more likely than not that his 
wider family were aware of these problems. And I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs M were 
most likely to have become aware of at least some of these concerns around the periods Mr 
Ms father underwent amputation surgery.
This means that in the round, I think it was fair for Lloyds to conclude that Mr and Mrs M 
were aware of at least some of Mr Ms fathers medical conditions, including those which 
Lloyds thinks contributed to his heart attack.
Overall, I think Mr Ms father did have pre-existing medical conditions which were linked to 
the cause of the claim. And I think, on balance, that it was fair for Lloyds to consider that Mr 
and Mrs M were most likely aware of at least some of Mr Ms fathers conditions which were 
linked to the cause of the claim. This means I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down their 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman