DRN-1716856
The complaint
Mrs H complains that IGO4 Limited agreed she could cancel her car insurance policy with no 
additional costs and have then said she still owes them money. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a car insurance policy through an aggregator site with IGO4. IGO4 then 
asked for confirmation of Mrs Hs no claims discount (NCD) and discovered it was still in use 
on another policy. Because of this IGO4 said it couldnt be used on this policy and charged 
Mrs H an additional premium on behalf of the insurer. Mrs H didnt think this was fair and 
objected to the additional premium. 
IGO4 looked into Mrs Hs complaint and said if Mrs H would like to cancel her policy she 
could do so and they wouldnt charge the additional premium, cancellation fee or admin fee. 
Mrs H agreed and cancelled her policy. When IGO4 sent the breakdown to Mrs H there was 
an outstanding balance of £14.35 to pay. Mrs H disagreed with this and said IGO4 had 
agreed she could cancel the policy with nothing more to pay. IGO4 didnt agree, they said 
they hadnt charged a cancellation fee or admin fee and that Mrs H had only been charged 
for her time on cover, plus interest. Mrs H wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint 
here. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt recommended it was upheld. She 
found that while IGO4 hadnt been as clear as they could have, she didnt think theyd said 
Mrs H wouldnt have anything further to pay. She said Mrs H had been charged for her time 
on cover and the interest for this. So, didnt recommend IGO4 to waive the fee. Mrs H 
disagreed and said IGO4 had agreed she could cancel with nothing more to pay. 
As Mrs H disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs H took out her policy, she told IGO4 she had 9 years NCD. IGO4 discovered this 
was in use on another car and therefore said it couldnt be used on this policy. Because of 
this IGO4 charged Mrs H an additional premium on behalf of the insurer. 
After Mrs H complained IGO4 agreed not to charge the additional premium if Mrs H chose to 
cancel her policy. They also said theyd waive the £35 administration fee and the £75 
cancellation fee. 
Ive looked at the breakdown of costs from when Mrs H chose to cancel her policy. I can see 
IGO4 hasnt charged the additional premium, administration fee or the cancellation fee. In 
total Mrs H paid IGO4 £272.87, as she was paying for it on a monthly basis it would mean 
interest would be applied to her annual premium. When her policy was cancelled the cost of 
the time on risk plus the interest was £287.22. This meant there was an outstanding balance 
of £14.35 left to pay. It is this amount Mrs H is complaining about. 
Ive looked into Mrs Hs concern about paying this amount, but I dont think IGO4 have done 
anything wrong by telling Mrs H she still owes that money. I say that because IGO4 have 
waived the fees they agreed to in their final response letter, it also didnt say Mrs H wouldnt 
have anything further to pay. The only charge Mrs H has had to pay is the time on risk plus 
the interest charge for paying on a monthly basis. Im satisfied this is fair in these 
circumstances and wont be telling IGO4 to remove it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman