DRN-2937550
The complaint
Mrs B complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender hasnt treated her fairly. 
What happened
Mrs B had an outstanding debt with Mr Lender which she was repaying through a debt 
management plan (DMP). While in the DMP she received offers from Mr Lender to settle her 
debt earlier and receive a discount on the amount she owed. Mrs B says she wanted to take 
advantage of one of the offers of reduced payments over a few months (as these were 
similar to the amounts she was paying through her DMP) but was told she would need to 
work directly with Mr Lender rather than through her DMP. The only offer she could take 
advantage of through her DMP was the one off settlement payment which while having a 
higher discount was for a larger amount.
Mrs B says the offers were discriminatory as she wasnt able to make separate payments to 
a single creditor under her DMP terms and so she wasnt able to take advantage of the 
offers Mr Lender had made. 
Mr Lender said that Mrs B was in a DMP which as an informal arrangement meant there 
were no rules to stop her settling one of the debts in the DMP early. It said it acted 
reasonably by providing Mrs B with the offers available and had worked with her debt 
management agent. Mr Lender said it had confirmed to Mrs B that she could benefit from the 
50% reduction to her debt by making a one off payment through her DMP, but Mrs B didnt 
accept this.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. He said that Mr Lender was aware that Mrs B was 
in a DMP and that the offers made werent clear that payments would need to be made 
outside of her DMP in order to receive the discounts. He also said that there wasnt evidence 
to show that Mr Lender carried out affordability checks to see if Mrs B could afford to make 
higher repayments while maintaining the other payments through her DMP. He didnt think 
Mr Lender acted fairly and recommended that Mr Lender pay Mrs B £70 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that Mrs B stopped making her 
contractual payments in February 2020 before entering a DMP. It said an offer was sent 
after 14 months had passed and it was reasonable to make Mrs B aware of all of her options 
as her circumstances could have changed since the DMP was put in place. 
Mr Lender said that Mrs B raised her complaint in April 2021 then decided to take advantage 
of the offer to settle her account with a 50% discount one month later. It said that the offer 
was clear, and Mrs B wouldnt have chosen to act on this had it not been clear. It said Mrs B 
decided to settle directly with it rather than through her DMP after it had explained that she 
could make payment through her debt management agent. 
Mrs B said that she had to spend all of her savings to obtain the discount and that had the 
offers been honoured she would have saved more. Mrs B said that Mr Lender was 
encouraging people to leave their DMPs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B was making payments towards her outstanding debt with Mr Lender through a DMP 
and Mr Lender was aware of this. Based on the information provided it appears that 
Mr Lender accepted the payments put forward by Mrs Bs debt management agent and so 
was working with Mrs B regarding her outstanding balance.
Mr Lender has explained that Mrs B stopped making her contractual payments in February 
2020 and that 14 months later it sent her details of the options available for settling her 
account sooner. I note the comments made by our adjudicator about additional affordability 
checks but in this case I do not find it unreasonable that Mr Lender informed Mrs B of the 
options available to her to reduce the overall amount she would need to repay.
I have looked at the offers that were sent to Mrs B and the email exchanges that took place 
between Mrs B and Mr Lender. The offer acknowledges that Mrs B is making payments 
through a DMP and the time it would take to clear her debt through this process. It then 
provides reduced payment offers. It is not immediately clear on the offer sheet that the 
options arent available through DMP payments although the email at that time confirming 
Mrs Bs DMP payment refers to setting up a repayment plan or receiving reduced settlement 
offers. 
Through the email exchange Mr Lender said that Mrs B could make the one off payment 
through her DMP. However, the options of spreading over two, three or six months were only 
available if Mrs B was working directly with Mr Lender. I can see why Mrs B felt this wasnt 
fair and felt her DMP repayments should be reduced to reflect the discounts available. The 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out a number of principles including treating 
customers fairly. In this case, Mr Lender provided offers to Mrs B which she wished to take 
up however due to the way in which she was making her payments (through a DMP) the full 
range of offers was then not available to her. I understand that Mr Lender said the full 
payment could be made through the DMP but in this case I think it would have been fair to 
allow Mrs B to take up which ever offer suited her best and make her payments through the 
already established DMP.
Because of this, on balance, I think Mr Lender didnt treat Mrs B fairly in this case. However, 
I note that Mrs B did take advantage of the offer to make a full repayment of the reduced 
settlement amount and she didnt take the option of doing this through her DMP. Therefore, I 
accept that Mrs B was able to benefit from one of the offers. However, she has explained 
that taking this option meant she had to use her limited funds available and I think on 
balance she was likely to have taken one of the other options had these been available 
through her DMP. Based on this I think it reasonable that Mr Lender pays Mrs B some 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience she has been caused. Factoring into my 
assessment of compensation the fact that Mrs B was able to pay the reduced settlement 
offer, I think the £70 recommended by our adjudicator is reasonable.
Putting things right
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should pay Mrs B £70 compensation for the 
trouble and upset she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman