DRN-3637247
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Phoenix gave her unsuitable advice to transfer out of her Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) and into a Personal Pension Plan (PPP), and that they have failed 
to properly put things right.
What happened
Mrs H left her employment relating to the relevant OPS in 1990/ 1991. In 1992 Phoenix 
recommended Mrs H transfer the deferred benefits held in this OPS into a PPP. Mrs H 
accepted this advice and the transfer was completed. Her funds were invested in a Phoenix 
with-profits plan.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pensions business, including pension transfers that happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994. This arose from the widespread mis-selling of 
PPPs.
The transfer of Mrs Hs OPS benefits fell within this timescale and so Phoenix (then trading 
as Pearl Assurance) were required to review it. Phoenix wrote to Mrs H inviting her to have 
the advice reviewed in 1999, and she accepted the invitation.
Phoenix carried out a review and sent the outcome to Mrs H in 2001. They said they had 
completed the review in accordance with the guidance issued by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA). The review had revealed she had lost out as a result of being advised to 
transfer from her former employers pension scheme. Mrs H was told theyd completed a 
redress calculation and were now making her an offer. Mrs H accepted the outcome and the 
sum calculated was paid into her PPP.
In October 2020, a complaint was made on Mrs Hs behalf to Phoenix regarding the 
suitability of the original transfer advice. Mrs Hs representatives said they wanted to check 
the calculations completed at the time.
Phoenix rejected the complaint, and pointed to the previous review, they said they would not 
review the transfer again.
Mrs Hs representatives subsequently complained the pension review calculation did not 
take account of personal pension costs. They suggest this means the pension review loss 
redress ought to be recalculated using the review guidelines introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in October 2017.
Mrs Hs representatives say the sole issue in their complaint is that a costs assumption of 
zero had been used for Mrs Hs loss calculation. Mrs Hs representative say the FCA 
guidance applies "to determine appropriate redress" where a firm "did not review the 
relevant pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements 
applicable for the review of the transaction at the time". 
And they submit this intends to cover not only cases that werent considered under the 
pension review, but those that werent considered properly. Mrs Hs representatives say they 
dont consider Phoenixs review was proper as it didnt review the transfer in accordance 
with the regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review, because of the 
costs assumption used.
Our investigator concluded Phoenix didnt have to complete a further review of the advice as 
they had already carried out a review in-line with the regulators guidance at the time. The 
investigator concluded that charges had been reflected implicitly within the calculation rather 
than explicitly based on the with-profits fund Mrs H had transferred to. And he was satisfied 
this had been incorporated into the calculation completed at the time of the review.
Mrs Hs representatives didnt accept the investigators view. They didnt accept it was 
plausible that provision, or adequate provision had been made for charges in the calculation 
completed at the time. They also took issue with the reference to the pension review having 
been designed to be a one-off exercise and wanted to stress their belief the intention of the 
review was to put people who had lost valuable benefits into the position they ought to have 
been in.
Provisional decision
On 18 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision. This indicated I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint and I set out why. Phoenix accepted my provisional decision; no response was 
received on behalf of Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision and I am not 
upholding this complaint. I am satisfied Mrs Hs representatives were provided with sufficient 
opportunity to respond. Im not persuaded there are grounds on which I can reasonably 
conclude Phoenix ought to be required to revisit their calculation.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer, it is not required to 
look at the matter again. I understand its said on Mrs Hs behalf that Phoenix ought to be 
required to complete the calculation again and using the updated guidance, because the 
original calculation was not completed in accordance with the regulatory standards or 
requirements applicable for the review, (because of the costs assumption used), but I dont 
agree.
Phoenix say they have already considered Mrs Hs transfer in-line with the SIB Pension 
Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business 
(Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994) and updated by subsequent regulators. And so, 
there is no obligation under the guidance to look at this again. To support their position, they 
have provided documentation from the time. Information from the third-party actuary firm 
was not originally provided to Mrs Hs representatives when it was requested, but it was 
subsequently provided.
Phoenix say documents from the time of the review, show the relevant charges as bespoke. 
They say this is because the expense/charges code is used to import the charges for a 
particular policy into the calculation software. In this case, the policy was a with-profit personal pension and the applicable code for this policy is 1,1,1. This is shown on the 
contemporaneous documents.
Phoenix say the actuaries calculated a fund management charge for with-profit contracts to 
be used in pensions review calculations. For this case, it was 0.45% pa. Phoenix stress they 
reviewed Mrs Hs advice (and loss) in-line with the regulations set out by the regulatory body 
at the time.
This agrees with my understanding there was a facility to allow for future policy charges 
within the pension review redress calculation software. And there were codes to be used for 
different policy types in order to load the appropriate expense charges, as appropriate into 
the software. 
Based on the information, I am satisfied that whoever completed the calculations for Mrs Hs 
review, clearly considered charges and I am comfortable here the relevant code was used. I 
dont consider there are persuasive grounds to suggest the review and calculations guidance 
as required at the time, was not followed. Ive looked with care at everything provided, I can 
see a history of contact with the original OPS by the actuarial firm used, and information 
provided (including from Mrs H). I think the review most likely met the standards applicable 
at the time. 
The pension review was designed, as relevant to Mrs H, to identify people who might have 
been unsuitably advised and invite them to have the relevant advice reviewed. Where 
someone responded to the invite and asked for a review, this was completed in-line with the 
guidance and a calculation completed. Where loss was established, an offer in respect of 
redress was made and here Mrs H agreed to a final settlement in respect of the advice. As 
such this was intended to be a one- off exercise for Mrs H. There are only limited 
circumstances where I would look beyond that agreement. 
Here Phoenix carried out the pension review and offered appropriate compensation to Mrs H 
as required at the time by the regulator. Im not persuaded there are grounds to require 
Phoenix to revisit the matter now.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint against Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman