DRN-2535265
The complaint
Mr P believes Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook), acted 
irresponsibly by agreeing two loans hed applied for.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr P took out a £2,000 loan with Oakbrook, to be repaid over 36 months 
with repayments of £121.14 a month. This loan was repaid early in July 2019. In August 
2019 Mr P took out a second loan with Oakbrook, to be repaid over 24 months with 
repayments of £131.05 a month. The second loan was also repaid early, in October 2019.
Mr P complained that Oakbrook didnt act responsibly when approving the loans. He said 
Oakbrook shouldnt have approved them because hed taken out other loans around the 
same time. Oakbrook didnt agree, so Mr P brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Oakbrook asked Mr P for information about his income (which they 
verified) and expenditure; and they carried out a credit search for each loan application.
For loan one the investigator said the credit search showed Mr P had ten active credit 
accounts, to which he owed a total of £12,900. All of these were showing as up to date, with 
no history of missed payments. Oakbrook calculated the monthly payments for these credit 
commitments to be £865 a month. Which, after taking the payment for loan one into 
consideration, left Mr P with over £2,300 a month to pay his rent, bills and other spending.
For loan two the investigator said Mr P had nine active credit accounts, totalling £9,900, to 
which he paid £519 a month. So, after taking the payment for this loan into consideration, he 
was left with £2,650 a month to pay to pay his rent, bills and other spending.
Because of this, and because Oakbrook had taken Mr Ps existing lending into consideration 
when making their decisions, the investigator thought the decisions to lend were responsible. 
And she didnt think Oakbrook needed to do anything else.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the fact that he was in a debt management plan (DMP) at the time 
hadnt been considered, so he didnt think the loans shouldve been approved. The 
investigator explained that DMPs dont show on credit searches, so Oakbrook couldnt have 
known about this unless Mr P told them  and shed seen nothing to show that he did. And 
there was nothing on the credit searches, for example arrears or defaults, that couldve 
indicated a DMP or other financial difficulties. So this didnt change her mind.
Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Oakbrook checked at the time they approved Mr Ps loans.
On his application for the first loan, Mr P declared an annual income of £55,000. Ive seen 
the credit check details Oakbrook reviewed for Mr P, and this electronic verified his income 
at £3,306 a month. It also confirmed Mr P owed £12,900. Oakbrook calculated his monthly 
payments as £865 - £220 for the payments to his existing loans, plus £645 which was 5% of 
£12,900 outstanding. There were no missed payments on any of the credit commitments, no 
County Court Judgements (CCJs) or defaults, and nothing to indicate that Mr P was in a 
DMP or otherwise struggling financially.
Based on the verified income and expenditure, Mr P had £2,320 left each month after paying 
his existing credit commitments and the first loan  this is 70% of his monthly income. Given 
this, Im in agreement with the investigator that Mr P had sufficient income to cover his rent, 
household bills and any other expenditure hed normally make i.e. food, clothing etc. So Im 
satisfied the first loan was affordable and Oakbrook didnt act unreasonably by agreeing it.
Ive also seen that Mr P made all of the payments to this loan on time and in full.
On his application for the second loan, Mr P again declared an annual income of £55,000. 
Ive also seen the credit check details Oakbrook reviewed for Mr P, and electronically 
verified his income as £3,099 a month. It also confirmed Mr P owed £9,900. Oakbrook 
calculated his monthly payments as £519 - £24 for the fixed payments to his existing loans 
plus £495 (5% of £9,900 outstanding). There were no missed payments on any of the credit 
commitments, no CCJs or defaults, and nothing to indicate that Mr P was in a DMP or 
otherwise struggling financially.
Based on the verified income and expenditure, Mr P had £2,449 left each month, after 
paying his existing credit commitments and the second loan  this is 79% of his monthly 
income. Given this, Im in agreement with the investigator that Mr P had sufficient income to 
cover his rent, household bills and any other expenditure he would normally make i.e. food, 
clothing etc. (which Oakbrook had calculated to total £1,097).
More importantly, Mr P had shown that he was able to pay Oakbrook £121 a month (just £10 
a month less than the second loan payment) for a period of over 18-months. Which also 
went towards demonstrating the affordability of the second loan.
So Im satisfied the second loan was affordable and that Oakbrook didnt act unreasonably 
by agreeing this.I appreciate Mr Ps comments about being in a DMP, but I havent seen anything thatd 
indicate to Oakbrook that this was the case. And I dont consider Mr P having taken out other 
loans to be a reason why Oakbrook shouldve declined his applications. Id expect them to 
take all other lending into consideration when deciding on any loan application  and in this 
case Im satisfied they did. And both loans were affordable at the time Mr P took them out, 
with nothing to indicate that the affordability wasnt sustainable.
So I remain satisfied that Oakbrook didnt act unreasonably when approving either of Mr Ps 
loans, and I wont be asking them to refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Likely Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman