DRN-3664444
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement offered by Admiral Insurance Company Limited for a 
motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S insured a car with Admiral. The car was stolen and Mr S made a claim which was 
accepted by Admiral.
In settlement of the claim, Admiral offered £34,070, less the policy excess. It said this was 
the market value of the car. Mr S didnt accept this and complained to Admiral. He said that 
purchasing a similar car would cost significantly more, around £38,000.
When Admiral rejected his complaint, Mr S referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
Admiral had made a fair offer. Mr S didnt accept this. He said he would accept a settlement 
of £36,443, that being the highest value obtained from online motor valuation tools.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to consider the relevant terms and conditions of Mr S policy. These 
say, that in the event of a claim for damage or theft, the most we will pay is the market value 
of the vehicle.
Market value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral offered £34,070 in settlement of the claim. This was the higher of two values it 
obtained from online valuation tools, which use data to establish the likely selling price of 
cars similar to Mr S.
In addition to the tools used by Admiral, weve looked at two additional valuation tools. The 
four values given for Mr S car using all these tools are:
£34,000
£34,070
£36,058
£36,443
The settlement offered of £34,070 is within in the range of these values. Ive considered 
whether I should discount the lower values from the range, but Im not satisfied this would be 
reasonable. These arent so different to the higher values, and theres nothing to suggest 
that they are outliers compare to the others, or inaccurate. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to discount the lower valuations from the tools simply because theyre less than 
what Mr S says it would cost to replace the vehicle.
Mr S has said that without knowing the data which is used to calculate these values, its not 
possible to say whether the values are accurate. We dont have access to that data, and 
neither do insurers. 
Its fair for insurers to take the values provided by the tools as accurate provided the details 
added to the tools when generating the values are accurate  for example ensuring that the 
insurer adds the correct make, model, specification and mileage. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the values obtained by Admiral were based on inaccurate details being input 
into the valuation tools.
Establishing the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Where a reasonable range 
of values is obtained from valuation tools, its fair to say that an offer within this range should 
be considered reasonable. 
Im not minded to exclude any values as being unrepresentative, and the offer made by 
Admiral to settle the claim falls within the range of all the values. Im not asking Admiral to 
increase the settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman