DRN-2205164
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL) has settled a
claim she made under her gadget insurance policy for a broken electronic device.
Mrs B is being represented by her son in this case, but for ease, Ill mainly refer to them 
collectively as Mrs B throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim under her gadget insurance policy for a broken electronic device. AGIL
accepted the claim but the device was deemed beyond economical repair. So it offered
Mrs B a cash settlement.
Mrs B was unhappy with the settlement and asked AGIL to return the broken device to her.
On investigation, AGIL found the device was prematurely disposed of, and so couldnt be
returned. It apologised and offered Mrs B £100 compensation for the mistake. It also
reiterated the cash settlement offer which it maintained was fair.
Mrs B disagreed and brought a complaint to this service. She said the settlement figure was
based on the cost of refurbished devices that werent covered by the manufacturers
warranty or servicing. She wanted AGIL to cash settle the claim at an amount that would
allow her to purchase a new replacement device directly from the device manufacturer.
Our investigator said that under the policy terms, AGIL was entitled to cash settle the claim
and offer replacement devices that were remanufactured and not new. But he concluded the
settlement figure AGIL offered was too low and said it should be increased £1,100. He also
said AGIL should pay a further £150 compensation for the delays in fairly settling the claim.
AGIL disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Throughout the course of this complaint, a number of points have been made. And Ive
carefully considered what Mrs B and AGIL have said. But in this decision, Ill focus on what I
see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of this
complaint. And to decide if AGIL has dealt with Mrs B in a fair and reasonable way.
Cash settlement
Mrs Bs policy terms state - If your device is damaged or breaks down we will either: repair
the device, or replace it with a device of the same make and model. If we cannot do this you
will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification. The terms also allow it to
reach an alternative claim settlement if the device cant be repaired or replaced and the
replacement can be remanufactured and not brand new.
AGIL was unable to repair Mrs Bs device and didnt have any available replacements. So it
offered Mrs B a cash settlement  which its entitled to do. I think its fair the cash settlement
reflects the amount it would cost Mrs B to buy a replacement device of the same make and
model  or  if this is unavailable, a replacement of an equivalent specification. But in line
with the policy terms, this doesnt need to be a brand new device.
AGIL said Mrs Bs device is no longer available to purchase as new from the device
manufacturer. So it based its cash settlement of £1,003.75 on prices for replacement
refurbished models from an online shopping website  Ill call it C. C sells new, used and
refurbished products from both private individuals and businesses.
AGIL provided screenshots from Cs website which showed replacement devices priced
between £977 and £1,099.99. And its offer seems to be an average of these figures  which
on the face of it doesnt seem unreasonable. But our investigator said the offer was too low,
because he could understand Mrs Bs reasons as to why she didnt want to buy her
replacement device from C, so he thought it fair that other online retailers be taken into
consideration. And in doing so, he concluded AGIL should increase its cash settlement offer.
I understand the general point the investigator is making, in that, where possible, its usually
fair to consider more than one companys prices for a replacement when reaching a
settlement figure. But I dont think that equates to an increase in the cash settlement in this
case and Ill explain why.
The screenshots AGIL provided show that a replacement for Mrs Bs device can be
purchased from different sellers on C for slightly less than the amount its offered Mrs B as a
cash settlement. Several of these replacement options are sold by trusted sellers and some
also offer A grade refurbishment or 12-month warranties. And I havent seen anything to
suggest these wouldnt be suitable replacements. In any case, Cs prices are only an
example  Mrs B is still free to purchase her replacement device wherever she wants.
And if she did decide to purchase the replacement elsewhere, I think its more likely than not
the cash settlement AGIL offered would cover this. I say this because, many of the sellers
AGIL quoted from C, also have independent websites and online shops  one of which the
investigator relied on in deciding a fair settlement. So AGIL has essentially based its
settlement figure on replacement costs from different companies or sellers. And from what
Ive seen, a suitable replacement seems to be available from some of these entities, for
around the settlement figure AGIL originally offered Mrs B.
It follows, based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied AGIL has provided sufficient evidence
to show, that Mrs B can purchase a suitable replacement laptop in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy, for the amount its already offered as cash settlement. So I dont
intend to direct it to increase its cash settlement offer.
Compensation for device disposal and delays
Mrs B shouldve been told the outcome of the claim before AGIL disposed of the device.
AGIL has acknowledged this mistake and offered £100 compensation for any inconvenience
caused. And I agree with the investigator that this is fair compensation for this error.
However, Im aware the investigator said AGIL should pay an additional £150 compensation
to Mrs B for delays in offering the right cash settlement. He said these delays had an impact
on Mrs Bs son who was unable to use the laptop for his work and had to turn down jobs as
a result.
Ive already explained that based on what Ive seen so far, AGILs cash settlement seemsfair  so Im not persuaded it did in fact cause any delays that it needs to compensate for. In
any case, I cant award compensation for any impact on Mrs Bs son, because from what Ive
seen, hes not the policyholder, and as such, isnt the eligible complainant in this case. So I
dont intend to direct AGIL to increase its compensation for trouble and upset.
Ive considered all of Mrs Bs comments, including the point that AGIL agreed to return the
device and repair it with the device manufacturer for £600. And that the device was in
working condition and could still be used. But I havent seen any supporting evidence to
show AGIL made any agreement with Mrs B to pay for the manufacturer to repair the device,
and this isnt something the policy terms say is covered under the policy anyway.
And if Mrs B thought the laptop was in working condition, she didnt need to make a claim
under the policy for repair. But the fact is, she did. And from what Ive seen, besides
premature disposal of the device  which Ive already considered above, AGIL seems to
have fairly dealt with the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. So these points
dont change my provisional conclusion.
My provisional decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, my provisional decision is that Assurant General Insurance
Limiteds offer of £1,003.75 to settle the claim and £100 compensation for the trouble and
upset caused in this case is fair. And that Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay
these amounts to Mrs B if it hasnt done so already.
I asked both parties to send me anything else theyd like me to consider before I issued my 
final decision. 
AGIL said it had nothing further to add. But Mrs Bs representative responded on her behalf 
saying that AGIL had offered to reimburse them for a repair quote to get the device fixed by 
the manufacturer directly. He says the device was sent to AGIL in working order and it was 
then taken to an unauthorised provider where it was broken and then AGIL were unable to 
send it back. 
He says that even if AGIL had fixed it, the manufacturers warranty for the device wouldve 
been voided because an unauthorised repair service was used. He says AGIL cant say 
theyre going to do something and not deliver when the service is being paid for, and that its 
failed to show any remorse. So Ive considered whats been said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Mrs Bs device was no longer covered under the manufacturers 
warranty at the point she made the claim, so AGILs actions had no bearing on this.
I havent seen anything that shows AGIL broke Mrs Bs device, it simply deemed it beyond 
repair and then arranged to settle the claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
As set out in my provisional decision, AGIL has apologised for the premature disposal of the 
device, offered fair compensation for this action and has offered a cash settlement that I 
think is fair and reasonable to allow Mrs B to replace the device. So I dont think it needs to 
do anything further.In relation to AGIL not doing what it said it would do, Ive still not seen any supporting 
evidence to show it agreed to cover the cost of a manufacturer repair. And I cant see that 
its obliged to do this under the policy. 
For the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied AGIL settled 
Mrs Bs claim fairly in line with the applicable terms and conditions. 
It follows, the comments made in response to my provisional decision dont change my 
conclusion in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Assurant General Insurance
Limiteds offer of £1,003.75 to settle the claim and £100 compensation for the trouble and
upset caused in this case is fair. Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay these 
amounts to Mrs B if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman