DRN-2269439
Complaint
Mr R has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in my 
decision.
Background
Mr R bought the policy in September 1997 at the same time as applying for a Personal 
Reserve account.
The policy cost 65p per £100 of Mr Rs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of his balance 
until the outstanding balance at the start of the claim was paid off or he returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says he completed the application on a leaflet, but he wasnt aware PPI had been 
applied to the account or that it was an optional product. The sale took place a long time 
ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of sale documentation. Because of 
this, I need to think about what was more likely to have happened when the PPI was sold. 
Ive seen a copy of an application form Allianz says was used around the time Mr Rs policy 
was sold. This has a section about PPI on it and a box for the customer to tick if they wanted 
to take PPI. Weve seen a number of similar sales from around the same period and this is 
consistent with our knowledge of how Allianz sold PPI. So, I think its likely Mr R would have 
needed to select to have PPI on the leaflet he says he completed. 
I can also see the PPI would have appeared on Mr Rs statements as PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PREMIUM and I think this would have been quite prominent. So, while Mr R 
says he didnt know he had PPI, I think its likely he would have seen this and if he wasnt 
sure what it was for, I would have expected him to query the transactions with Allianz much 
sooner. 
For these reasons, I think Mr R was likely aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Mr R says that PPI wasnt recommended to him, which means Allianz didnt have to check 
the policy was right for him. But it did need to give him enough information about the PPI, so 
he could decide himself whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about 
his circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to him, so I dont think 
better information would have stopped him buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
the policy wasnt affordable for Mr R at the time of sale.
Ive considered that Mr R says he was entitled to generous sick pay and that he had some 
savings at the time. But considering the cost and benefit of the policy, I think Mr R still could 
have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times. So, I dont think better information would 
have changed his decision to take the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman