DRN-3341573
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
handled a claim for the death of her cat under her pet insurance policy.
This decision covers that aspect of Mrs Cs complaint relating to the death of her cat, made 
to Red Sands and then to this service. It doesnt cover other aspects that havent been 
considered by - or the subject of a final response from - Red Sands.
What happened
Mrs C had a cat covered by a pet insurance policy with Red Sands. In March 2021 the cat 
became ill and was taken to a vet, who diagnosed a tumour. Sadly, the cat had to be put to 
sleep. Mrs C made a claim for the death of her cat, but after deducting those costs not 
covered by the policy the remaining (claimable) costs were less than the policy excess. So, 
no payment was made in respect of the claim.
 
Unhappy at this outcome, Mrs C complained to Red Sands. She referred to sections of the 
policy terms and conditions that provided cover and payment for the death of a pet during 
the policy year because of injury or illness (the percentage payable varying according to the 
age of the pet).
 
Red Sands didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they noted the policy 
references but pointed to an exclusion in the same section that meant death of a pet due to 
illness, where the pet was aged eight years or older [at commencement of the policy or 
subsequent renewal period], wasnt covered.
Mrs C complained to this service, unhappy at Red Sands declining her claim for the death of 
her cat. She reiterated her concerns that the policy provided for payment in the event of the 
death of a pet during the policy year and that she had claimed because her cat had been put 
to sleep for humane reasons. She asked that she be paid what she maintained the Policy 
Summary indicated was payable for her cat.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint, concluding that Red Sands hadnt acted fairly. 
She noted that while there was an exclusion in the policy terms and conditions for the death 
due to illness of a pet aged eight years or older, as a longstanding policyholder Red Sands 
should have drawn specific attention to the exclusion at the appropriate renewal when the cat 
reached eight years of age. That would have meant Mrs C could decide whether to continue 
with the policy with this change to the cover. As Red Sands drew attention to the policy 
requirement for co-payment when the cat turned ten years of age, the investigator thought 
they should have done the same with the exclusion for death (from illness) once eight years 
of age was reached. To put things right, the investigator thought Red Sands should pay Mrs 
C the price she paid for her cat.
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said the policy terms and conditions made clear the exclusion for 
death once a pet reached eight years of age, both at policy inception and subsequent 
renewals. They also argued that the exclusion was made clear in the Policy Summary and it 
was the policyholders responsibility to review the policy documentation at the inception of 
the policy and subsequent renewals. They also noted that the policy did still cover the death 
of a pet that was eight years of age or older, if the death was the result of an accident. 
In my findings I concluded that it was clear from the policy terms and conditions that the 
exclusion for the death of a pet (from illness) where the pet was over eight years old. I also 
thought the inclusion of the additional reference to Injury only in the later version of the 
policy terms and conditions made the exclusion clearer still.
I also concluded that because the policy terms and conditions made the exclusion clear (as 
did the Policy Summary issued alongside the terms and conditions at the 2020 renewal) Red 
Sands didnt need to draw specific attention to it when the pet turned eight years of age.
As I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, Im sorry this complaint arose from the death of Mrs Cs cat. Its clear from what Mrs C 
has told us that this was very upsetting for her, having had the cat from when it was a kitten. 
Id want to reassure Mrs C that Ive thought very carefully about the circumstances of her 
complaint and what I think would be reasonable. In doing so, my role here is to decide 
whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Mrs C.
 
The main issue in Mrs Cs complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying the policy 
exclusion for the death of Mrs Cs cat through illness as it was over eight years of age. Mrs C 
maintains that the policy provided for payment in the event of the death of a pet during the 
policy year and that she had claimed because her cat had been put to sleep for humane 
reasons. Red Sands say that the policy terms and conditions made clear the exclusion for 
death once a pet reached eight years of age, both at policy inception and subsequent 
renewals. Also, the exclusion was clear from the Policy Summary and it was the 
policyholders responsibility to review the policy documentation.
In considering both arguments, Ive looked at the specific terms and conditions of the policy. 
At inception the policy terms and conditions stated the following in Section 2 (Death of Dog 
or Cat From Accident Or Illness):
2.1  Cover
We will pay a percentage of the market value, the price paid or the amount specified 
in your schedule (whichever is the lesser) if your pet dies during the policy year or is 
put down for humane reasons because of injury or illness that happened or started 
during the policy period, taking into account the age, breed and condition of your pet.
Up to 1 year 100%
From 1 year up to 3 years 75%
From 3 years up to 5 years 50%
From 5 years up to 8 years 35%
From 8 years and over 25%2.2  Specific Conditions
2.2.1  The death must occur during the same policy year as the accident or illness. 
You must adviseas soon as possible in writing of the accident or illness, but not 
later than 30 days after your pet has died.
2.3  Exclusions
      The following are excluded from cover:
      2.3.5  Death due to an illness of any dog or cat aged 8 years or over at the  
commencement date or any renewal period. 
Ive also noted that theres very similar wording in the version of the terms and conditions 
that were in place at the time of Mrs Cs renewal of her policy in 2020 (the renewal that came 
before the death of her cat). But the reference in Section 2.1 that refers to From 8 years 
and over25% includes an additional reference immediately adjacent which reads Injury 
only (see exclusion 2.3.6). Looking at these conditions, I can understand why Mrs C has said 
what shes said, drawing specifically on what Sections 2.1 and 2.2.1 state. However, I dont 
agree. While the exclusion cited by Red Sands to decline Mrs Cs claim for the death of her 
cat (section 2.3.5) comes after Sections 2.1 and 2.2.1, as both come under Section 2 then I 
think its reasonable to say that they should be read in conjunction with each other. I think its 
clear that while Sections 2.1 and 2.2.1 are the starting point, there are then clear exclusions 
set out, including death from illness (but not injury) where the pet is aged 8 years or over. 
The inclusion of the additional reference to Injury only in the later version of the policy 
terms and conditions makes the exclusion clearer still.
Theres also no doubt about the age of Mrs Cs cat being over eight years old at the time of 
its death. And while her cat was put down for humane reasons, it is the case that it was 
illness (a tumour) that led to the decision to put the cat to sleep. So, while I recognise the 
very upsetting circumstances, I do think its clear that the exclusion applied.
In making her complaint, Mrs C also asked that Red Sands should outline any subsequent 
[policy] changes on any renewal of a policy. Ive considered this, together with the view of 
our investigator that As Red Sands drew attention to the policy requirement for co-payment 
when the cat turned ten years of age, they should have done the same with the exclusion for 
death (from illness) once eight years of age was reached.
However, I dont agree. As Ive noted, the policy terms and conditions were provided at the 
inception of the policy and I think they were clear about the exclusion for death of a pet from 
illness when aged eight years or over (and more explicitly in the later terms and conditions). 
Its also clear that the amount paid on the death of a pet varied (as a percentage) according 
to the age of the pet. The Policy Summary issued alongside the terms and conditions at the 
2020 renewal also make the exclusion clear. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the exclusion to decline Mrs Cs claim for the death of her cat.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold Mrs 
Cs complaint.
Red Sands responded to say that they had nothing to add.Mrs C responded to make several points and voice her concerns. She recognised that the 
decision to decline her claim had been made but wondered how many pet owners would still 
insure their pet after it was eight years old if they knew it wasnt covered for illness. She still 
thought Red Sands should be under some kind of obligation to inform customers [of the 
exclusion] before they might make a claim. Particularly as she doubted how many 
consumers would read all the policy terms and conditions. She thought, as a loyal customer 
of Red Sands, she should have been told and it meant she would think twice about taking 
out any kind of insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id want to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked carefully at all the points shes made. Having 
done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In coming to that view 
Ive considered her points in turn.
On her first point, as with insurance policies in general, its for consumers to consider 
whether the policy is appropriate for their needs and circumstances, both when taking out 
the policy and subsequently when deciding whether to renew the policy or not. Where the 
terms and conditions change, as in this case where the exclusion for death as a result of 
illness comes in when the pet reaches eight years of age, then its for the consumer to 
decide whether the policy remains appropriate for their needs. While the exclusion means a 
reduction in cover, Id expect a consumer to weigh that against the remaining cover 
provided, including for treatment for the pet for illness (but not death) and cover where the 
pet dies as a result of an accident.
On the point about informing customers of the exclusion (before they make a claim) and Mrs 
C feeling she should have been specifically told, I considered the point when reaching my 
provisional conclusion as set out above, where I thought it was made sufficiently clear. So, I 
havent changed my mind on this point.
I accept that it may be that not all customers will read all the policy terms and conditions, but 
I dont think thats a reason for those terms and conditions not being applied. And while I can 
appreciate Mrs Cs view that her experience has made her think twice about taking out any 
kind of insurance, I would say that she should still consider the benefits that insurance 
provides against the risk of damage or loss (in general, not just pet insurance).
Having considered the points made by Mrs C, my overall conclusion hasnt changed, and 
that Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman