DRN-3286048
The complaint
Mrs L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent her falling victim to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2019 Mrs L was sadly the victim of a scam. Between September and November 2019, she 
made four payments totalling nearly £10,000 from her HSBC account as a result of the 
scam. One was an international transfer and the others were debit card payments. All the 
payments went to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges from where they were forwarded to a 
company Ill refer to as S. Mrs L says S are operating a scam which she discovered in early 
2020 when she was unable to make a withdrawal. 
In March 2020 Mrs L emailed HSBC to alert them to the problem with her payments. She 
asked that they try to get her money back. HSBC declined to reimburse Mrs L. In summary 
they said that the payments had gone to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and there was 
no prospect of recovery. HSBC accepted that there had been some delays and offered £50 
compensation for the impact of this. 
Mrs L approached our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary she didnt think HSBC could reasonably have prevented the 
loss that Mrs L suffered. As she disagrees, Mrs L has asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs L, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs L has correctly pointed out that banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in 
their customers best interests. This includes the British Standards Institutes (BSI) PAS 
17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. Ive 
considered the payments Mrs L made (the largest of which was for £3,300) in the context of 
her account and its usual activity. There is a balance to be struck between stopping and 
checking payments and allowing customers free access to their funds. I dont think there was 
anything so unusual about the payments Mrs L instructed (either individually or collectively) 
where Id have expected HSBC to have intervened. 
I appreciate Mrs L thinks the payments were unusual and HSBC ought to have done more, 
but I dont agree. So, I dont think HSBC ought to have done more or should have intervened 
at the time the payments were made. 
Mrs Ls own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate her 
transfers to S. For the debit card payments, its only possible to make a chargeback claim to 
the merchant that received the payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange 
would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in 
exchange for Mrs Ls payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the 
wallet addresses provided. So any chargeback was destined to fail and as above, it wouldnt 
be possible to raise a chargeback against S directly. 
The chargeback scheme doesnt apply to international transfers. But the situation would 
have been similar for the international payment. This too went to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange and the funds would have been converted and sent on. So there wouldnt have 
been any prospect of recovering the international payment either. 
Given this, I think HSBC not pursuing a chargeback was a reasonable exercise of their 
discretion on the matter. And Im not persuaded that there was any reasonable prospect of 
recovering the international payment. So even if HSBC ought to have done more, I dont 
think this would have made a difference.
For completeness I also consider the £50 compensation offered by HSBC for their delays 
when dealing with Mrs L to be fair. I understand this will have been a stressful time. But the 
majority of Mrs Ls distress would have been caused by the scammers, rather than by 
HSBC. 
Im of course sorry Mrs L lost her money to a scammer and to hear of the impact this has 
had. But as I dont think HSBC could have prevented or recovered the loss, I cant 
reasonably tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman