DRN-3916001
The complaint
Mr V complains about Monzo Bank Ltds actions when withholding funds following a transfer 
request.
What happened
Mr V held an account with Monzo. In November 2021, Mr V wanted to transfer around 
£360,000 from his Monzo account to a brokerage account in relation to his business.
Mr V asked Monzo if there would be any limitations on the money transfer. Monzo confirmed 
there was no inbound transfer limit but failed to mention there was an outbound daily transfer 
limit of £10,000. So, Mr V couldnt make the transfer as hed hoped. Mr V was unhappy 
about this and feels Monzo breached the contract as they hadnt mentioned it before, and he 
couldnt seem it formed part of their terms and conditions. 
Around 10 November 2021, Monzo honoured Mr Vs request to increase his daily outbound 
transfer limit to around £75,000 to allow him to make one transfer. The day after, Mr V made 
another request  and Monzo asked him for proof of entitlement to the funds in the account, 
and source of wealth. Mr V provided this information but Monzo refused a further daily limit 
increase. Mr V asked Monzo to transfer the money back to his account where it came from 
to avoid further delays. But Monzo limited the account while they carried out a review. 
Monzo informed Mr V the limitation and funds should be released within two weeks. 
However, their review took longer, and the account remained frozen. Around 22 December 
2021, while Monzos review was still ongoing, a freezing order was applied to Mr Vs 
account. Therefore, Monzo wasnt able to allow any transactions on the account, so it 
remained limited. The freezing order was lifted on 9 March 2022, and Monzo returned the 
money left in the account to a third party on 1 April 2022 once they received the appropriate 
authority.
Mr V said Monzos actions caused him to lose around £36,000 a day because he couldnt 
earn money through his trades. Mr V believes the freezing order was applied because 
Monzo raised a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR), and he states if they had returned the 
money like he asked none of this would have happened.
Our investigator reviewed things. In summary, she said Monzo acted in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations and therefore she couldnt fairly ask Monzo to reimburse Mr V for 
his losses.
Mr V remained unhappy. He explained hed been an account holder for a long time prior to 
this request, and hed previously transferred more than £10,000 with no issues. Mr V was 
particularly unhappy that hed spoken to Monzo prior to making the £360,000 transfer and 
they failed to mention the £10,000 transfer limit. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr V and 
Monzo have said before reaching my decision. I would add too that our rules allow us to 
receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a 
number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially 
sensitive information. Some of the information Monzo has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential.
Account block and closure 
Monzo are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
it appears Mr Vs account flagged for review due to a large payment coming into the 
account, and a request from Mr V to transfer it out. I appreciate why Mr V may have found 
this inconvenient  especially as hed already spoken to Monzo about the incoming transfer, 
but Monzo must ensure they keep their due diligence checks updated at all times. 
Im aware Monzo asked Mr V for some further information as part of their review. Mr V 
supplied Monzo with this information, but they didnt deem it was sufficient enough to 
remove the limitation on the account or allow any further transfers to be made. Monzo told 
Mr V the review should be completed in around two weeks  and theyve explained that in 
usual circumstances, that is often the case. However, Mr Vs review required longer for 
reasons Im unable to share with Mr V directly. Id like to reassure Mr V, based on what Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say Monzo acted unfairly by refusing further transactions as their review 
was still ongoing  so their actions were appropriate.
Monzo made the decision to close Mr Vs account around 15 November 2021. At times, 
following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This 
can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the 
customer. Just the same as if Mr V decided to stop banking with Monzo, he wouldnt have to 
explain why. However, Monzo can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in 
the terms and conditions of the account. Monzo have complied with the terms and conditions 
when deciding to close Mr Vs account so I wont be asking them to do anything differently. 
It's also important to note, the account did remain open, albeit blocked, due to the 
outstanding money held in the account.
Transfer limits
Im aware Mr V is upset because he spoke to Monzo about the £360,000 transfer before he 
made it. Mr V said Monzo didnt make him aware of the outbound daily transfer limit, and its 
not stated in the terms and conditions. I recognise this would have been frustrating for Mr V 
 and unfortunately, I havent been able to listen to a phone call or see case notes of when 
this was discussed to see what was mentioned. Overall though, I dont think it makes a difference. I say that because Monzo are entitled to decide how they operate  including 
what limits they find necessary. Ive also reviewed Monzos website and it does clearly state 
that if a customer wants to make a transfer over £10,000, they should get in touch with 
Monzo to raise the limits. I dont think its feasible for the terms and conditions to list 
everything, so Im pleased Monzo display details on transfer limits on their website. And 
there are times, as Mr V has experienced himself, where Monzo allow the limits to be raised. 
So, even if Monzo had made Mr V aware of the limits, theres nothing to suggest they 
wouldnt have been able to raise the limits at the time he wanted to make the transfer. So I 
cant fairly uphold Mr Vs complaint on this point alone.
Withholding the funds & financial loss
Mr V asked Monzo to transfer the money back to the account it came from when his second 
limit increase was declined. However, Monzo couldnt do that due to the ongoing review. Mr 
V believes the freezing order was applied because Monzo raised a SAR. I appreciate Mr Vs 
strong sense of feeling around this, but I don't think it makes an overall difference on 
whether Monzos actions resulted in the freezing order being applied or not. I say that 
because once a freezing order was granted, Monzo had a duty to act on it - and therefore 
they werent able to release the money or give Mr V access to his accounts. Monzo are 
legally obligated to comply with such orders and therefore its not always appropriate for 
them to engage further in their own investigation. So while I recognise the distress caused to 
Mr V, I can't fairly say Monzo acted inappropriately. 
I appreciate Mr V was without the money for a prolonged period of time, but it wasnt 
appropriate for Monzo to release the money until they received the relevant and correct 
authority. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont consider Monzo caused any delays in 
releasing the money.
Im aware Mr V thinks Monzo should compensate him for the money he says he lost out on 
by not being able to trade. I appreciate how strongly Mr V feels about this, but in order for 
me to ask Monzo to pay any of these additional costs, Id need to be satisfied they did 
something wrong. And having carefully considered everything, I dont think they did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman