DRN-4395497
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) didnt provide the service it 
should have when he opened a current account.
What happened
On 4 February 2023, Mr S applied for a current account with Co-op Bank. He received a 
welcome pack telling him his account was open and he was provided with his account 
details to register for online banking. Mr S did this and received his account documents 
including debit card and PIN. Given this he made arrangements for an account switch and to 
start using the account.
On 12 February, Mr S says he couldnt log on to mobile banking and was asked to call the 
customer services centre. When he did this, he was told he would need to visit a branch with 
his identification documents. Mr S explained he lives a long way from a branch and would 
need to take time off work to do this but says he wasnt given any alternative options. Mr S 
visited a branch and was told his account would be unblocked on 16 February but on that 
day, he still couldnt access his account. Mr S raised complaints about the service he had 
been provided and also that his telephone banking PIN had been set up when there was a 
question over his identity. He says he didnt get a satisfactory response to these.
Co-op Bank said that Mr Ss account was opened on 6 February but on 9 February it had 
concerns about a possible identity theft. It issued a letter to Mr S and secured the account 
and applied a note to say he needed to visit a branch with his identification. It said this was 
bank policy and was explained to Mr S on the call on 14 February where Mr Ss complaint 
was raised and resolved.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They said the block was applied to Mr Ss 
account due to concerns about a possible fraud. They did think the telephone banking PIN 
shouldnt have been set up when there was a fraud concern on the account but as Mr S 
hadnt been disadvantaged because of this they didnt require Co-op Bank to pay him any 
compensation.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He said his key complaint wasnt about 
needing to visit a branch but about how Co-op Bank treated its customers as well as its 
security practices. He said his complaint hadnt been handled properly and reiterated his 
concerns about the telephone banking PIN being set up when there was a fraud alert on his 
account.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the details of which are set out below.
Mr S set up a current account with Co-op Bank. However, after the account was set up there 
was a fraud alert due to concerns about a possible identity fraud. Because of this action was 
taken to protect Mr Ss account and he was asked to visit a branch with identification. Banks 
are required to have fraud prevention measures in place and while these can cause 
inconvenience (and I note the comment about limited branches) as the systems are in place 
to protect customers, I do not find I can say Co-op Bank was wrong to take the action it did.
Regarding the telephone banking PIN Co-op Bank has accepted that it made a mistake. It 
said that when Mr S called, he should just have been referred to a branch with identification 
and not set up a telephone banking PIN. When a business makes a mistake, our role is to 
ensure the customer is put back in the position they would have been had the mistake not 
been made and, where appropriate, award compensation. In this case, while the telephone 
banking PIN shouldnt have been set up at that time due to the concerns about Mr Ss 
account, as this issue hasnt disadvantaged Mr S I do not find that Co-op Bank is required to 
take any further action in regard to the telephone banking PIN.
I note that Mr S has said his key complaint wasnt about needing to visit a branch but the 
service he received. In this case, I agree that the service provided wasnt as it should have 
been for the following reasons:
Mr S had his telephone banking PIN set up when it shouldnt have been. And while 
this didnt disadvantage him, this was an error, and I can understand why this raised 
concerns for Mr S about Co-op Banks security processes.
On the call on 14 February, Mr S raised a complaint about needing to visit the branch 
and the lack of communication about his account. He then said he couldnt visit the 
branch unless he took a days leave. The adviser said that the complaint would be 
registered, and feedback provided, and the complaint upheld but that the visit to the 
branch is bank policy. Mr S was told he would get a letter with the complaint details, 
but it isnt made clear his complaint is considered resolved. Mr S raised further issues 
and received an email from Co-op Bank saying it didnt consider the points raised to 
be new and that the issues had been fully addressed in the complaint resolved on 14 
February. Having looked at the points Mr S raised on 17 February these included the 
issues he had discussed on the call on 14 February but also new concerns about the 
telephone banking PIN being set up and the service he had received after visiting the 
branch. Therefore, I dont think that Co-op Bank provided the service it should have 
done in response to the concerns raised by Mr S.
On the call on 16 February, Mr S explains the process he has been through to try to 
get his account unblocked. While the visit to the branch was part of the banks 
process, Mr S was told the block on his account would be removed on 16 February, 
but this didnt happen, so he had to call again. Mr S says that the adviser was curt 
with him on the call, and he was then told there were no notes on his account about 
his visit to branch causing Mr S further stress and inconvenience. So, while I do not 
find that Co-op Bank was wrong to request Mr S to visit the branch, I find it didnt 
provide the service it should have done after this to unblock his account.
Overall, I do not find that Co-op Bank provided Mr S with the service it should have through 
the account opening process and when he raised his concerns about this. Because of this I 
find that Mr S should be paid compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused. 
When considering the amount of compensation, I have taken into account the calls Mr S 
made after he had visited the branch and been told his account would be unblocked and the 
upset he was caused by his concerns about the security issue and other complaints not 
being addressed. Against this I have accepted that Co-op Bank didnt do anything wrong by 
asking Mr S to visit the branch following the fraud alert and that it was able to unblock his 
account on 16 February. Given this, I think compensation of £50 is reasonable.
Co-op Bank accepted my provisional decision and Mr S confirmed that he had nothing 
further to add. Therefore, I am now able to issue my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusion 
hasnt changed. That is, that I do not find that Co-op Bank provided Mr S with the service it 
should have done through the account opening process and when he raised concerns about 
this. In recognition of this, and as agreed by Co-op Bank, I am upholding this complaint in 
regard to the service Mr S received and find Mr S should be paid £50 compensation for the 
upset an inconvenience he has been caused. 
Putting things right
The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr S £50 for not providing the service it should have 
when Mr S was trying to resolve issues with his account being blocked.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman