DRN-3136116
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr U bought solar panels for his home in March 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr U into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Us complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr U, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Ikano accepted the adjudicators findings and agreed to pay compensation, and an up to 
date meter reading was sent to Ikano so it could carry out its calculations.
However, Ikano then objected to this complaint being upheld after all. It argue that no 
misrepresentation had in fact occurred. It provided a copy of the sales contract, and said that 
this document had made it clear to Mr U, on one page, that the panels would not be  self-
funding during the loan period. So the case was referred to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £444.49. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£6,450, payable over ten years. This document was signed by Mr U immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr U could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £645 each year. That is about £200 more than the stated benefit figure for the first year. 
Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr U about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional findings, so there is no reason for me to depart 
from them, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman