DRN-2796674
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. And removed 
funds from it without his consent. He also complains that Barclays unfairly recorded a fraud 
marker against his name.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Barclays. He used the account to buy and sell cryptocurrency. 
Mr M used a bitcoin trading platform, which I will refer to as B.
On 12 August 2019, Mr M sold bitcoins to an individual calling themselves Mr E via B. He 
received a credit of £8,155.63 for the sale. The following day Barclays received a notification 
from another bank that their customers, who I will refer to as Mr and Mrs E, had been the 
victims of a scam: their online bank account had been compromised following a phone call 
by someone pretending to be from a communications company. And funds had been 
removed from their account. These funds were then used to pay Mr M for cryptocurrency. As 
a result of this information Barclays blocked Mr Ms account whilst it looked into what had 
happened. 
Following this, the sending bank sent Barclays an indemnity and Barclays returned what was 
left of the money, paid into Mr Ms account for the cryptocurrency, which was £4,323.10, on 
16 August 2019. And it loaded a marker against Mr Ms name with CIFAS as hed received 
fraudulent funds into his account.
Mr M told Barclays that the transaction was legitimate, and he hadnt done anything wrong. 
He said he had no knowledge that there was anything untoward about the funds coming into 
his account and Barclays should have spoken to him at the time. And he was now out of 
pocket. He said he was able to give the bank paperwork to support what he said about the 
bitcoin transaction which included that B had received reports that the person Mr M had sold 
the bitcoins to was making other reports of fraud regarding other trades to his bank.
 
On 3 September 2019, Mr M provided Barclays with copies of screenshots showing the 
bitcoin sale and that B had received other reports about Mr E making fraudulent fraud claims 
about another bitcoin trade hed made. Barclays didnt review the information until 18 
November 2019. After looking at what Mr M had provided, Barclays decided to remove the 
CIFAS marker and on 27 November 2019, closed Mr Ms account immediately. Barclays 
thought that in so far as Mr M was concerned the transaction was done in good faith. But it 
declined to refund Mr M and said he would have to contact the person whom hed sold the 
bitcoins, to try and recover his money.
Mr M complained to Barclays. He said hed given the bank all the information about his 
entitlement to the money. And the marker led to his credit card being cancelled, which he 
needed at the time to hire a vehicle to help him move house. He asked the bank to give him 
back his money. Barclays maintained its position and said it had done the right thing 
returning the money back to Mr and Mrs E. It suggested that Mr M should contact the people 
whod paid money into his account to get it back. But it accepted that it had taken too long to 
review Mr Ms account and his complaint. So, it offered him £450 compensation. Unhappy 
with this response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And asked Mr M for some more 
information about the activity on his account. Mr M provided the investigator with 
screenshots showing sales of cryptocurrency. Mr M said because of Barclayss actions hed 
lost both his cryptocurrency which hed sold to a trader via B, and most of the money he had 
expected in return for it. 
The investigator looked at the information Mr M had provided. She said Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong by closing and reviewing Mr Ms account as hed been using his personal 
account for business purposes, which wasnt in line with the terms and conditions. But she 
didnt think Barclays had treated Mr M fairly by returning his funds to source. This was on the 
basis that Mr M was expecting money relating to a genuine transaction. She thought 
Barclays should refund £4,323.10 to Mr M and pay 8% simple interest on the balance. She 
also said Barclays had acted unfairly when loading the CIFAS marker against Mr Ms name, 
so should pay him an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this had 
caused him.
Barclays disagreed. They accepted Mr Ms explanation that a fraudster had in some way 
defrauded Mr and Mrs E and used their money to pay Mr M for the bitcoins. Therefore, the 
fraudster had used someone elses money but maintained that Mr M couldnt keep the funds 
because they were fraudulent, and they were obliged to return the money once the sending 
bank asked for it under an indemnity. Barclays also said it had done enough to put things 
right, so didnt agree to pay Mr M further compensation. 
Mr M accepted that Barclays could close his account. But said he said the bank didnt have 
any right to send the money hed got for selling bitcoins back to the other bank. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he wants Barclays to refund him the money he says he 
lost as a result of the bitcoin trade he made with Mr E. Having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is that Barclays 
refund Mr M. I shall explain why.
First, Id like to acknowledge the difficulties that this complaint presents. There was a 
particular tension for Barclays here because on the face of it, both Mr M and Mr and Mrs E 
were victims. There is a natural impulse to restore positions as far as possible. It is well 
documented that banking fraud is very damaging not only to the financial sector itself, but 
more particularly to individuals. In this case the fraudulent activity of a third part left two 
victims, including Mr and Mrs E. 
Notwithstanding that Barclays believed both Mr M and Mr and Mrs E were victims, Barclays 
decided to return the funds to the sending bank, who was Mr and Mrs Es bank. Barclays 
said it did this on the basis that a) the sending bank had provided Barclays with an indemnity 
and b) and they had followed the Advanced Push Payment (APP) scam process as they felt 
Mr M couldnt benefit from scammed funds and they should be restored to Mr and Mrs E. 
The effect of Barclays actions meant that Mr M had lost both his bitcoins which hed sold 
unknowingly to a fraudster, and half of the money he had expected in payment for it.In making this decision Ive taken into account Barclays own terms and conditions, relevant 
industry guidelines and good practice, regulations such as The Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs), legislation such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), as well as 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
In response to the investigators view Barclays seem to be suggesting they sent the money 
back in line with the banks Authorised Push Payments (APP) process  but from the fraud 
notes it looks like the victim at the sending bank was in fact a victim of an unauthorised 
scam. There is mention of account takeover which usually means the scammer is the one 
who sent the money, not the consumer. Therefore, this appears to be an unauthorised scam, 
rather than an authorised push payment scam. 
In this case Mr M had a credible complaint. Theres no evidence to suggest Mr M dishonestly 
procured the funds from Mr and Mrs E. Nor is there any evidence that he knew, believed or 
suspected that the funds had been illegitimately procured by someone else in order to pay 
for the bitcoins (if it wasnt the genuine Mr E he was dealing with). Mr M provided Barclays 
with evidence of his bitcoin sale and they agreed he had not acted fraudulently. Therefore, I 
cant see any reason for Barclays to return the money to the sending bank. This would not 
seem reasonable in these circumstances, and industry best practice suggests Barclays 
shouldnt have done so once its investigation established that its customer had not behaved 
fraudulently. It follows then that Barclays were under no obligation to return the funds to the 
sending bank.
Barclays have said they were obliged to return the funds after receiving an indemnity for the 
sending bank. However, I disagree with this. An indemnity is simply an agreement between 
the two banks that provides some protection to the receiving bank being asked to return the 
funds by the sending bank. It doesnt compel the receiving bank to return the funds, if 
following its own investigation, it establishes that its customer has a legal right to the money 
and was not involved in any fraud or scam. So, I dont agree that the indemnity Barclays 
received  from the sending bank placed any legal obligations on them to return the money.
Ive looked at the banks terms and conditions. Ive noted one term of relevance:
8. Can Barclays or the government ever take money out of my account?
Barclays can take money from your account, but only in certain circumstances. For example:
If a payment has come into your account but the paying bank realises it was made 
fraudulently or the person paying it doesnt have enough money
On the face of it, this term seems to suggest Barclays can debit the money from Mr Ms 
account if the paying bank realises it was made fraudulently.  Mr M says he received the 
money in good faith in return for the sale of bitcoins. So, its not fair that hes now out pocket. 
Section 62(4) CRA 2015 states that a term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good 
faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the 
contract to the detriment of the consumer. The CRA also says that an unfair contract term 
will not be binding on a consumer (Section 62(1).
The term says Barclays can seek to recover the money from Mr Ms account. But there is no 
requirement on Barclays to investigate the paying banks claim that payment was made 
fraudulently, or to even notify Mr M. It doesnt create any obligation on Barclays to 
investigate or consider the context of the payment, or to notify Mr M if they intend to remove 
the funds. This is enough for me to conclude that the term is unfair  it allows Barclays to 
create obligations on Mr M that are significantly detrimental to him  through no fault of his own hes been left out of pocket. On that basis I dont see that he should be bound by this 
term.
For completeness, even if I didnt think the term was unfair (and therefore not binding), its 
not fair and reasonable to hold Mr M liable as he is innocent and has no recourse, whereas 
the victims at the paying bank may well have had recourse against their own bank under the 
PSRs if Barclays hadnt taken the funds from Mr M.
Ive also kept in mind that the notes provided by Mr M seem to suggest that Mr E was 
making other fraud claims regarding cryptocurrency trades made using B. The screen shot 
of the conversation between Mr M and B on 19 August 2019 states: This user looks to have 
reported one of their other trades to the bank for some reason. In response Mr M told B that 
his bank account had been locked. 
B reassured Mr M that it had the ID used by Mr E, which it was happy to send to Mr Ms 
bank if needed. Based on this Mr M believed that the victim for the sending bank (Mr E) had 
falsely reported the transaction as fraudulent, which if true, would mean that potentially no 
fraud had been committed and Barclays wouldnt have had a mandate to remove the funds. 
But I havent seen anything to show that Barclays investigated what Mr M told them about 
the transaction, contacted B or looked at the paperwork he provided until November 2019, 
which was months after Barclays had sent the money back, which I dont find to be fair or 
reasonable. So, I find the fair resolution here would be for Barclays to return the funds it took 
from Mr Ms account. 
CIFAS marker
Im pleased to see that Barclays removed the marker as soon as it had spoken to Mr M and 
accepted it shouldnt have placed the marker against him. The marker was in place for 
around four months. Its clear the marker has had a negative impact on Mr including causing 
him difficulties with his credit card being cancelled. 
From what M Hs said and the evidence hes provided I dont doubt that the marker recorded 
by Barclays has impacted on him. Its caused him a good deal of worry and upset. And the 
bank should pay compensation to him for incorrectly applying the CIFAS marker. In the 
circumstances, I agree with investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable compensation to 
pay in reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
Delays and account closure
Barclayss actions caused Mr M a great deal of worry and upset. He was left out of pocket 
and Barclays ignored the evidence he provided about the bitcoin transaction. Barclays 
accepts it didnt look at things as quickly as it should have and that it should have provided 
Mr M with better service. Barclays has apologised and paid Mr M £450. I think this is fair 
given the circumstances, so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more to resolve this 
aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ms account. Mr M was using his personal 
account for business purposes, which is a breach of the terms and conditions. Im satisfied 
that the bank acted in line with the account terms and relevant regulations when it decided to 
close Mr Ms account. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong or treated Mr M 
unfairly when it closed his accounts.My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. To 
put things right Barclays must:
Refund Mr M £4,323.10
Pay Mr M simple interest at the rate of 8% on £4,323.10 from the date of debit until 
the date of refund.
Pay an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused by placing a CIFAS marker 
against Mr Ms name
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman