DRN-2891192
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a 
claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B holds a business protection insurance policy with Covea. He made a claim on that 
policy to cover his losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr 
B didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Infectious Diseases, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr B complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain Infections Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr B wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Mr Bs situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr B took out. 
Mr Bs policy included an extension which provided cover for infectious diseases. The policy 
states that it provides cover for business interruption in consequence of compulsory closure 
by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising 
fromdiscovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
The policy provides a definition for the term notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. 
However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (and are set out in a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which now includes COVID-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. In contrast, Mr Bs policy includes a list of notifiable 
diseases as it was at a particular point in time. And I havent seen anything in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, 
including for any new diseases which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases 
can be added to the list without Coveas prior written consent., which Im satisfied has the 
purpose and effect of limiting cover to those diseases listed within the policy. 
There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including 
prevention of access or loss of attraction. However they require there to be physical damage 
to property in order for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 
caused physical damage to property, I dont think these terms provide cover in these 
circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr B. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman