DRN-3137016
The complaint
Miss F complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined her travel insurance 
claim. My references to URV include its agents.  
What happened
On 3 March 2020 Miss F bought a P&O Ferries Prestige annual multi-trip insurance policy, 
insured by URV. On 4 July 2020 Miss F booked a holiday abroad with the intention to travel 
from 5 to 12 September 2020.
However, on 27 July 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
travel to her intended destination due to Covid-19. Miss F cancelled the holiday on 
2 September 2020. She got a refund/voucher for the flights and hotel but the villa 
accommodation provider refused to refund or provide a credit note so Miss F claimed on the 
policy for the villa cost of about £2,000.
URV declined the claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover cancellation as a result of 
FCDO advice.
Miss F complained to us and wants URV to pay her claim. She said she bought the policy 
before the Covid-19 pandemic was declared and booked her holiday when there were no 
travel restrictions for her intended destination. She thinks URV unfairly declined her claim for 
cancellation caused by the change in FCDO advice because the policy was invalid if shed  
travelled against that FCDO advice. 
Our investigator said URV unfairly declined the claim and it would be reasonable for URV to 
treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. He recommended 
URV reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
URV disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. 
The If you are unable to go on your trip section of the policy terms and conditions, on 
page seven, say:  
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or 
the person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and 
alternative
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave 
orders cancelled.
Miss F cancelled her trip because the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to 
her intended destination. This isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which 
cancellation cover is provided.
This means Miss Fs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy. 
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Miss F to have no cover when she had to cancel 
her holiday. Ill explain why.
Under the policys criteria for purchase, on page one, the policy says:
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance schedule:

Is not travelling to an area that is classified as 'Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel' by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
The IPID document, on page two, says under the Where I am covered? section:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.This exclusion means if Miss F had travelled abroad she would have been acting against 
FCDO advice and she would have had no cover whatsoever under her policy. So, if Miss F 
had travelled abroad the policy would have been of no use to her.
The effect of this exclusion is that Miss F wasnt covered if she followed FCDO advice and 
cancelled her trip, but she also had no cover if she travelled. 
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCDO advice was 
clearly highlighted to the consumer in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. The cancellation section of cover doesnt 
list changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion so Miss F would need to read the terms and 
conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy. 
I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect an 
exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Miss F. She had no cover at all when FCDO advice changed and 
I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the consumer and the rights 
of the insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely Miss F would have bought the 
policy if she realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCDO advice changed after 
the cover was purchased. 
URV says the policy term and IPID paragraph that refers to there being no cover if a 
consumer travels against FCDO advice was written before Covid-19 was a known entity. But 
that doesnt make any difference to my reasons why I think URV unfairly declined the claim.
Putting things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy. URV must assess the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to reassess Miss Fs claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman