DRN-4244061
The complaint
Mr K complains about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tesco) handling of his claim, under his
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged in mid-September 2022. He contacted Tesco to raise a claim. He
says it told him the car was repairable having reviewed photos of the damage. Mr K says
Tesco then struggled to find a garage that could carry out the repairs. He says
communication around this was poor. He contacted several garages having been told they
had been appointed - but was then told no arrangements had been made.
Mr K says he spent a long time trying to get through to Tescos agents on the phone. He
also says call backs werent followed up as promised. He was told a courtesy car would be
provided and that this would be an automatic. Mr K says a manual car was eventually
provided 12 days after the damage occurred. He made numerous further calls trying to
arrange for this to be replaced with an automatic.
Mr K says it took another eight days before a usable courtesy car was provided. His car was
then collected three days later, and he was told it could take up to 12 days for an engineer to
assess the damage. After five days Mr K says Tesco called to tell him his car was a total
loss. In mid-October 2022 Mr K was provided with details of the valuation of his car, and the
cost of the repairs. Mr K didnt accept Tescos settlement offer and it reconsidered its
valuation.
Mr K says Tesco subsequently increased its offer five days later. He accepted and the
courtesy car was sent back two days after this.
Mr K says he is a blue badge holder and struggles to walk more than a few hundred yards.
So, a car is essential for his mobility. He says he has frequent hospital visits that involve
significant journeys. He says he chased the progress of his claim every day and was told his
car would be repaired but then later informed it was a total loss. Mr K says he had to make a
case for Tesco to review its valuation, which was proven to be too low. He also had to cancel
a driving holiday, missed out on his granddaughters birthday and incurred taxi fares.
In its response to Mr Ks complaint, Tesco says it tried to arrange repairs of Mr Ks car with a
number of garages, but none had capacity. It says it also had some issues with its supplier
providing a hire car. Tesco says a manual was provided when this shouldve been an
automatic. It acknowledges there was a delay whilst this was resolved. Tesco says Mr Ks
car was collected around 21 days after he made his claim. Four days later it was assessed
as a total loss.
Tesco refers to industry wide challenges it says its facing with the availability of spare parts,
replacement vehicles and capacity for vehicle repairs. It says these issues may not all
impact Mr K, but it indicates that some have. The business concludes its response to say it
is partially upholding his complaint. It says this is because of its error in not providing an
automatic replacement vehicle.
Mr K didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld
his complaint in part. He says expectations were managed poorly by Tesco, and this meant
Mr K had to make numerous calls. In addition, he highlighted the issues described with
Tesco arranging a courtesy car, and when failing to carry out call backs. But he says both Mr
K and his wife have full drivers licences so are allowed to drive manual cars. He also says
they couldve used the initial settlement offer to buy a car in order to go on holiday, whilst
disputing the valuation.
Our investigator says Mr Ks policy terms provide for a courtesy car whilst his vehicle is
being repaired, but not when its considered a total loss. However, to acknowledge the
failings in the service provided by Tesco he says it should pay Mr K £100.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators findings. He says an automatic replacement car was
necessary as his wife hasnt driven a manual for over forty years. When he has hospital
appointments, he says his wife has to drive him. He says at no point was he told he wasnt
entitled to a courtesy car. Mr K also says Tescos settlement payment for around £10,000
wasnt offered as an interim payment and couldve been reduced. He says the final payment
was for £11,500, which represents a 15% increase.
As he didnt agree with our investigator, Mr K asked for an ombudsman to consider his
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain.
Mr Ks car was determined to be a total loss as a result of the damage it had suffered. Ive
read his policy terms to understand the cover provided. Theres no dispute that the policy
covers Mr K for the damage caused under Section A  Damage to the car. The section
headed, How we will settle your claim under sections A or C says what will happen in these
circumstances. This section of the policy terms says:
We will choose whether to repair the car or to pay you a cash amount equal to the cost of
the loss or damage.
And:
If the car is a total loss
Once an approved engineer has inspected and assessed the market value of the car, we will
send you an offer of payment.
Mr K hasnt disputed that his car shouldve been categorised as a total loss. So, I neednt
consider this point. But he didnt accept the initial settlement offer. I can see from the claim
records that he was offered £10,190 on the day he made his claim. He didnt accept this. But
he did later accept a revised offer for £11,500, which was confirmed later in October 2022.Mr K hasnt disputed the final valuation offer, so I wont consider this in my decision. But I do
acknowledge his point that the initial offer Tesco made him was much lower.
My focus here is on the standard of service Mr K described including, delays, poor
communication, issues with the provision of a courtesy car, and the low settlement payment
he was originally offered.
Regarding the provision of a courtesy car Mr Ks policy terms say:
To keep you mobile, within the geographical limits only, we will offer you a small courtesy
car (typically a small city car), while the car is being repaired by one of our approved
repairers following an insured incident that has resulted in a claim under your policy.
Once we have decided that the car can be economically repaired by one of our approved
repairers and if it cannot be driven, we will provide the courtesy car on the next working day
for as long as the repairs take.
Mr K contacted Tesco in mid-September 2022 to make a claim. His car wasnt driveable. I
can see from the claim records that his car wasnt collected by Tesco until 7 October. He
was provided with a manual courtesy car on 26 September, which was subsequently
replaced with an automatic on 4 October.
I acknowledge Mr Ks point that although both he and his wife are licenced to drive manual
cars, his wife hasnt driven a manual for a long time. She is elderly and when required to
drive Mr K to hospital appointments she is only confident driving an automatic. The records
show Mr K made this clear to Tesco from the start of his claim and he repeated this
requirement several times.
From what Ive seen an automatic car wasnt provided as a result of miscommunication on
Tescos part. Albeit this type of car could be provided. I acknowledge the policy doesnt
specify the type of transmission a courtesy car will have. But given that Mr and Mrs Ks
circumstances were made clear from the outset, I think its reasonable that Tesco shouldve
taken more care to assist them with this requirement. As it is - it took nearly three weeks
from registering the claim before a car was provided that was usable.
I can see from the claim records that when the manual car was provided, Mr K said this
would be okay for a couple of days. However, he has explained that due to regular hospital
visits, an automatic was necessary so his wife could take him and drive him home. In
addition to visiting him in hospital. Its clear that Tescos agents were made aware of this
requirement. I think it was reasonable for it to provide a car prior to any repairs starting. But it
didnt provide an automatic as requested - and needed. This was problematic for Mr K and
his wife, and meant they had to pay for taxis and couldnt always travel.
Ive thought about the time Tesco took to determine that Mr Ks car was a total loss. It took
around a month to do this from the claim being registered. It took a further week for a
settlement payment to be provided. I note Tescos reference to challenges faced by the
industry with respect to garages undertaking repairs. However, Id expect it to have reached
a total loss decision earlier than it did. Ultimately no repairs were carried out, but it still took a
long time to progress Mr Ks claim to this point.
Mr K wasnt provided with the funds to buy a replacement car for around five weeks. When
he had the funds, he says he bought another car within two days. Had the funds been
provide sooner its likely the issues described couldve been avoided.
I acknowledge a settlement offer was made when Mr K first registered his claim. But itsbeen shown that this offer was too low  also that in the days after registering the claim Mr K
was told that his car was repairable. This information was repeated several times and he
was given the name of different garages where the repairs would be carried out. Given the
information Tesco provided I dont think Mr K acted unreasonably to wait for his car to be
assessed to understand whether repairs were possible.
In these circumstances I think Tesco shouldve been able to confirm Mr Ks car was a total
loss sooner. The time taken meant he and his wife didnt have access to a suitable car for
several weeks. This has clearly caused distress and inconvenience, especially given Mr Ks
health issues and regular hospital visits.
Ive thought about Mr Ks point about missing out on a driving holiday. He says this was due
to commence on 16 September 2022 for four days. Im sorry he missed out on this holiday.
However, his policy terms provide for a courtesy car when repairs are being carried out. I
accept there were delays in Tescos handling of this claim. But it did need to arrange an
inspection of the damaged car. It could then assess whether it was repairable, or a
settlement payment was needed. I dont think this could reasonably have happened within
two days.
I acknowledge what Mr K says about missing his granddaughters birthday. He says there
was a rail strike on this day. This was prior to the provision of an automatic car and meant he
and his wife couldnt travel.
Having thought about all of this, I think its fair that Tesco compensates Mr K for part of the
period that he lost the use of his car. An automatic replacement car was provided around
three weeks into the claim. I think a total loss decision shouldve been confirmed quicker.
This wouldve meant Mr K had the opportunity to buy a suitable replacement. In the
circumstances I think ten days shouldve been enough to make this decision. Because of the
delay it should pay Mr K ten days loss of use at £10 per day.
Ive also thought about the confused communication Mr K received. He contacted a number
of garages, only to be told Tesco hadnt arranged for appointments. Misinformation was
given about whether the car was repairable or a total loss. I can see from a record dated 21
September 2022 that a message was sent prior to Mr K going for surgery. The record says
this was sent in error as the car had yet to be assessed. I can see that Mrs K was upset
when she called to query this with Tesco. I also note Mr Ks concern that the valuation he
was offered was significantly lower than he thought his car was worth. This was borne out
when the final offer was provided for around 15% more.
In light of these issues, I think a further compensation payment is appropriate. I think Tesco
should pay Mr K £150 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it caused, in addition
to the loss of use payment.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Tesco should:
pay Mr K £100 for the loss of use of his car; and
pay Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused due to poor
communication and claim handling.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Tesco responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr K didnt respond with any further information or comments for me to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited should:
pay Mr K £100 for the loss of use of his car; and
pay Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused due to poor 
communication and claim handling.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman