DRN-3798553
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly debited a payment from his account that he 
hadnt authorised, didnt deal with this for seven weeks and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr K says that he quickly disputed a payment of £3,257.83 and fee debited to his HSBC 
credit card account on 30 May 2022. He believed this to be fraud and wanted a refund. He 
explains he called HSBC many times and was given incorrect information. The payment 
wasnt refunded to his account until after 12 July 2022. And this has caused him great stress 
and inconvenience and affected a planned holiday.
HSBC said it accepted that it had made errors. This wasnt fraud but arose as a member of 
staff wrongly processed a balance transfer from Mr Ks account rather than from another 
customer. It paid Mr K a total of £950 in compensation and refunded interest to his account. 
HSBC said that although Mr K had requested a further payment of £500 it wouldnt be 
making this. It didnt consider that it was responsible for a financial loss.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. She said that the 
compensation was reasonable and in line with our published guidelines. 
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that there had been 
insufficient attention given to the financial and mental impact of what happened. He said that 
a further cost of £500 relating to a holiday had only been identified after HSBC had paid the 
compensation. And that it wasnt that he couldnt also afford to pay for landscaping work but 
that a deposit for that had been lost. Taking these elements into account the current 
compensation wasnt £950 but a net £300. The whole case was poorly managed because of 
a series of errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from a final response that HSBC sent to Mr K that it accepted the lack of ownership 
and the level of service has been completely unacceptable and were truly sorry for this. 
And I also note that the further request for compensation from Mr K was explained as £300 
for his partner needing to change a flight and a loss of one nights accommodation and he 
says he was receiving random calls from HSBC that werent intended for him. Hed 
indicated that if HSBC paid the further £500 he would likely settle.
I want to say a bit about what happened and the timeline to help me assess what is fair 
compensation here.
It isnt disputed that HSBC passed Mr Ks initial query to a team that couldnt deal with it. 
And wrongly gave him the impression he could have a temporary refund. On 23 June 2022 
HSBC issued a complaint response saying it would pay him £200 to reflect this.
It wasnt until 8 July 2022 that Mr K received formal confirmation that the money would be 
refunded  but still not for several days. HSBC said that it would be providing feedback to 
the member of staff who made the error. And it paid Mr K £500 compensation and refunded 
interest.
On 12 July 2022 it told Mr K that the money should be credited that day and it paid him a 
further £250 taking into account what hed said about the impact this had on his life. Mr K 
then requested a further £500. Hed said that the money hadnt been credited as agreed and 
that he was considering legal action. He referred to the lack of robust processes and 
misinformation.
My assessment
I understand that HSBC identified the error by reviewing what the member of staff involved 
on the day the payment was made had done. Im struggling to see why as Mr K says this 
couldnt have been resolved sooner. And while as far as Mr K thought this was fraud, it 
arose from a clerical error when his account details rather than another customers were 
used. Whatever the issue Mr K wasnt given a commitment for some time that the money 
was to be refunded and even then it was delayed.
His account has now been restored to the position it should have been in. I need to think 
about any financial loss and then compensation for his stress and inconvenience. 
Im afraid Im not persuaded that HSBC is responsible for any financial loss. And thats 
because I dont see on the evidence that landscaping work or a holiday needed to be 
changed even if thats what Mr K decided to do. And Id also only be looking at direct losses 
for Mr K. I think that the impact on for example an overnight stay can fairly dealt with by 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of this matter not being resolved by then 
and the calls he received including the misdirected ones and those he made.
I need to say that we dont make punitive awards and reference has already been made to 
our published guidelines. Ive considered these and will make my own judgement on the 
case. I take into account what Mr K says about the number of times he has contacted HSBC, 
the incorrect information he was clearly given and the period before things were sorted out. 
Having done so I find that the amount already paid is fair and isnt less than I might 
otherwise have awarded. I know Mr K will be disappointed by this and if he doesnt accept 
my decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc does 
not need to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman