DRN-4481493
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money 
she paid to a travel company.
What happened
What Miss J says:
Miss J was searching for flights and was contacted by someone from a travel company 
(which I will call A).
Miss J agreed to book the flight  which was due to leave on 12 June 2023. She agreed to 
pay the cost of £600 in instalments. She paid the first three as shown:
Date Payment type Amount
14 April 2023 Faster online payment to A  mobile banking £100
27 April 2023 Faster online payment to A  mobile banking £200
15 May 2023 Faster online payment to A  mobile banking £200
After the third payment, A advised they werent flying to the destination anymore and agreed 
to a refund, to be paid on 16 June 2023. But nothing arrived. Miss J contacted Halifax on 3 
July 2023 - she said shed been scammed. She said the money should be refunded under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
Miss J says this was money she cant afford to lose  especially given the increased cost of 
living.
What Halifax said:
Halifax said:
- This wasnt a scam and therefore isnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. This was because the Code is to deal with scams, and this was 
a civil matter. A scam is when customers are tricked into authorising a payment to an 
account they believe belongs to a legitimate payee but is in fact controlled by a 
fraudster.
- The travel company (A) went into liquidation on 23 May 2023. Before that, it was a 
genuine company which was trading.
- This was therefore a civil matter, and one which has to be resolved between Miss J 
and the company A.
Our investigation so far:
Miss J brought her complaint to us. Our investigator also said this was a civil matter as:
- The company A had been in business since 2006  as shown at Companies House.
- A ceased trading and as a result, Miss J didnt get a refund.
- Miss J couldnt pursue a chargeback  as the payments were made online  and 
chargebacks can only apply if Miss J had used a debit card.
Miss J asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
If this was a scam  then banks (including Halifax) must follow industry and regulatory 
guidance to check certain payments and in some circumstances, protect customers by 
stopping the payments and contacting customers about them. And where banks havent 
followed the guidance, they can be asked to refund customers. This is included in the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code)  which I see Miss J has quoted here.
But where payments are made to a valid business for services to be provided; then such 
principles and the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply. This 
is then classed as a civil dispute, and for which banks normally have no liability.
I therefore looked at Miss Js complaint with this in mind. I can see this is clearly a civil 
dispute between Miss J and company A. I say that as:
- Companies House shows that A was a limited company and was trading since 2006; 
but went into liquidation on 23 May 2023. This was unfortunately only eight days after 
Miss J made the third payment.
- There appears to be a genuine transaction for Miss J to be provided with the flight, 
but A suffered financial difficulties and couldnt fulfil it. 
- This doesnt mean that Miss J was scammed out of her money  but she is out of 
pocket due to the fact that A has gone out of business.
So here, Halifax dont have any responsibility to refund the money to Miss J. If she had 
made the payments using her debit card, she couldve asked Halifax to try to get a 
chargeback  which may have been possible under the card scheme rules (i.e. Visa or 
Mastercard); or if she had paid by credit card, she may have been able to ask for a refund 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But here - she made online payments from her 
bank account, so unfortunately these options arent possible.The only way forward for Miss J is to contact the liquidator of A and lodge a claim as a 
creditor of the company (that is  people who are owed money by A when it went out of 
business). However, Companies House doesnt show who the liquidator is  I can only 
suggest that Miss J contacts the accountants of A (they are shown in the Companies House 
records) and see if they can help. But  that doesnt mean to say that Miss J will get any 
money back that way.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss J, and Im sorry to hear she has lost money, but in 
this case, Halifax arent liable for the payments she made, and Im not asking them to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman