DRN-3516866
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy about the way in which Capital One (Europe) plc handled her disputed 
transaction claim.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms R contacted Capital One to dispute a transaction of £49.64 to a media 
services provider. She asked Capital One to cancel the continuous payment authority.
Capital One advised Ms R that the transaction had already been processed. Ms R requested 
a chargeback.
Ms R is unhappy about the length of time it took Capital One to process the chargeback.
Ms R complained to Capital One. In response, Capital One said that it received Ms Rs 
further information in support of the chargeback on 1 and 2 November 2021 and applied the 
chargeback refund on 3 November 2021. It acknowledged that Ms R didnt expect the refund 
to take so long but said the delay was due to needing further information from Ms R.
Ms R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Capital One 
followed the chargeback proves correctly and that it had treated Ms R fairly.
Ms R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into whether Capital One followed the chargeback process correctly.
A chargeback is a debit or credit card transaction which is reversed by the cardholders bank 
if the customer disputes it. The bank will provisionally credit the disputed transaction back to 
the customers account until the chargeback claim is resolved. Theres no guarantee that 
chargeback will result in a refund. It depends on whether the merchant successfully disputes 
the chargeback.
This service cant determine whether or not a chargeback should succeed. I can only look at 
whether Capital One followed the chargeback process correctly.
Ive listened to the calls between Ms R and Capital One dated 27 October 2021 and 1 
November 2021. Ive also taken account of what both sides have said about what happened.
When Ms R called Capital One, it asked her to provide some more information about the 
disputed transaction. I can see that Ms R provided this information on 2 November 2021. 
Following this, Capital One refunded the disputed amount to Ms Rs account on 3 November 
2021. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Capital One followed the chargeback process 
correctly.
I appreciate that Ms R feels that the chargeback should have happened more quickly. 
However, I think it was reasonable for Capital One to request more information, and Im 
satisfied that the chargeback process was followed in a timely manner once the information 
had been provided.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Capital One followed the chargeback 
process correctly and that it treated Ms R fairly. I wont be asking Capital One to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman