DRN-3794513
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax) initially wasn't showing him as registered on 
the electoral roll but is now displaying his address incorrectly.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
on 30 September 2022 (below). In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to 
partially uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M lives in a property that is split into two flats, there is one external street door but 
inside there are two secure doors to the separate flats. Mr M's flat is the first floor flat. 
His local authority uses first-floor as the first line of his address. Mr M's creditors 
and the postal service do not.
Mr M uses a credit reporting application (the app) to look at his credits score. The 
app he uses takes its information from Equifax. When he started to use the app Mr M 
did not put first-floor as the first line of his address.
When accessing his credit report on the app Mr M noticed that he was showing as 
not being on the electoral register. He queried this with Equifax, and they amended 
his address to what they say matches the electoral register and told him to change 
this in the app. However, this caused Mr M's credit accounts to disappear from his 
credit file, as the addresses were different. Mr M was distressed by this and 
complained to Equifax.
As the electoral register uses one format of his address but his creditors use another 
address format the two things aren't matching and so aren't displaying as one record. 
They merged the two credit files, but Mr M said this then made his address display 
incorrectly as first followed by the door number. Rather than first-floor followed by 
the door number.
Mr M and Equifax have spent a number of months going back-and-forth arguing 
about how to display the address. Equifax have said they are displaying the address 
in the way the local authority provides it. Mr M disputes this and has provided 
evidence to Equifax showing the local authority use first-floor not just first.
During the months of dispute there has been an offer from Equifax of £100 where 
they say they are sorry they mismatched Mr M's accounts. Mr M did not accept this 
and after trying to resolve things directly with Equifax decided to bring his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr M's complaint in summary he said:
Equifax should change the way they display Mr M's address to match the local 
authority reporting. Because they hadn't Mr M had been in a position where had been 
unable to see both his electoral register status and his accounts at the same time. He 
said this had caused him many months of distress. But Equifax wasn't solely 
responsible for this, and Mr M needed to ask his existing creditors to change his 
address to match the format of the local authority in order for his credit file to be as 
one. 
He went on to say that Equifaxs failure to resolve matters had prevented Mr M from 
moving from his current accommodation and so they should increase their offer of 
compensation from £100 to £300.
Equifax disagreed they explained the original offer of £100 where they said they had 
mismatched Mr M's accounts was actually incorrect as they hadn't mismatched the 
accounts but as previously explained the local authority would use one format of his 
address and Mr M's creditors were using another. However, they did say they would 
honour this offer. They went on to say the address system they use is supplied by the 
postal service and the format is sometimes different to the local authority format. But 
is recognised by financial business making it easier to link accounts. They explained 
if they change the format to match the local authority one then its likely Mr Ms 
accounts wouldnt link up and be displayed on his credit score.
Our investigator didnt think this changed things and said Equifax have the ability to 
change this and so they should, he maintained they should increase their 
compensation offer to £300.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. Having done 
so I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
I understand Mr Ms frustration with the issues his faced with his credit score, but I 
believe the issue is largely down to the way his address is set up, in that it's different 
with the local authority and his creditors. Based on what Equifax have explained 
about the way their address system works, if Mr M asked his creditors to record his 
address with the first line as first-floor this should match what comes through from 
the local authority, regardless of how Equifax display through their address system. 
The removal of the word floor, based on Equifax's explanation, is purely because of 
the formatting the system uses, so it shouldn't make any difference to the data linked 
to his address, if the address matches the local authority.
In order for me to be able to say, Equifax are to blame for Mr M not been able to 
move home I would need to see evidence to say, the format used to display Mr M's 
address was the sole reason any potential landlords or mortgage providers declined 
his applications. I've seen no evidence that suggests this, and furthermore it's 
unlikely that this would be the case as Mr M had evidence from his local authority 
showing that he was registered at the address he lives at on the electoral register 
and he could have shared this on any applications. He has also said that he has a 
good credit score with other credit reference agencies and it's unusual for a business 
to only rely on only one.Taking everything into account I don't think Equifax have done anything wrong in 
displaying the address using the system they do. However, I do think they could have 
done a better job of explaining how things work to Mr M. This would have saved him 
lots of confusion and frustration. Based on this, I think the £100 Equifax have offered 
to Mr M is fair here.
I would suggest Mr M now asks his creditors to change the way they report his 
address to match that of the local authority. If by doing this, his credit score doesnt 
display as Equifax have said it should I would expect Equifax to work with him to find 
a remedy that works.
I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Equifax acknowledged receipt of my provisional findings but made no comment on them.
Mr M responded, he was disappointed that I had reduced the compensation amount that had 
been recommended by the investigator and wanted this to be reconsidered. Ive summarised 
his points:
The issue dragged on for nearly two years and was only resolved once he brought 
the complaint to this service, which Equifax forced him to do. 
He first raised a dispute with Equifax on 31 January 2021, so this meant the 
compensation of £100 was only 15p per day of the issue being outstanding.  
The information displayed by credit reference agencies can have a huge impact on 
peoples live and so they should be held to a higher standard than other companies. 
Awarding small amounts of compensation will not deter them from doing the same 
again in the future.
He explained although his living conditions had changed and were extremely difficult, 
he had tried to move as he anticipated he wouldnt pass any credit checks while the 
issue was ongoing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given careful consideration to Mr Ms response, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
set out in my provisional decision and for largely the same reasons, Ill explain.
Before I do, Id like to say to Mr M, Im truly sorry to hear about his recent bereavement.
I understand Mr M doesnt feel the compensation is fair, but when awarding compensation 
my role is to think about the impact the business mistake has had, not to punish a business 
as a deterrent for future mistakes. Nor is it my role to hold credit reference agencies to a 
higher account than any other financial business. As I previously explained I think Equifax 
could have been clearer in their explanations to Mr M, but other than that they didnt make 
an error with his address as such. Had they explained things clearly Mr M could have 
changed his address with his creditors to one using the same format as the local authority 
uses sooner and understood what the problem was. But I think £100 is a reasonable amount 
to reflect the poor explanation.
Mr M feels this has dragged on for two years, so I have looked back at the timeline of events. Mr M did raise his first dispute with Equifax on 31 January 2021, and there was back 
and forth correspondence between the two, and changes happening until 21 September 
2021 when he raised an official complaint with them as he didnt feel theyd resolved the 
credit file dispute properly. Equifax issued their final response in November 2021 and 
referred Mr M to this service if he remained unhappy  but he didnt bring it to this service for 
another 5 months. If as Mr M says, the issue was causing him such distress I would have 
expected him to bring it to us sooner. But either way I cant say Equifax has delayed the 
progress of his complaint.
Mr M has said he didnt try to move home as he anticipated he wouldnt be able to due to the 
issues on his Equifax credit file. Unfortunately, I am not able to consider what might have 
happened, had he tried to move, and can only consider what has actually happened. And 
while Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms living conditions arent ideal, that isnt the fault of Equifax 
and so while I have every sympathy for his situation, I cant fairly say Equifax prevented him 
from being able to move home and so it isnt something I can hold them accountable for or 
take into consideration for compensation. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we - in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Equifax  can do for him.
Putting things right
Equifax should pay Mr M £100 for the distressed caused to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Equifax Limited. I now require it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman