DRN-2472514
The complaint
Mr H says Oakam Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Oakam provided to Mr H between May 2014 
and August 2015 
loan 
numberdate taken instalmentsamount 
borroweddate repaid
1 24/05/2014 6 £400 15/09/2014
2 15/09/2014 12 £674 14/08/2015
3 17/08/2015 18 £1,500 outstanding
Before bringing the complaint here Oakam looked at Mr Hs complaint. It agreed that it 
hadnt lent responsibly and offered to pay compensation. In its final response it said that 
Mr H had only repaid the capital for loan one. And Mr H had been unable to make many 
repayments to loan 3. So Oakam used the compensation from loan 2 to repay the 
outstanding balance on loan 3. Mr H was due a refund of just under £50 after this 
calculation.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the offer Oakam made was fair and 
reasonable. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he had been 
informed that the amounts he owed Oakam had been written off and the loans closed. So it 
wasnt right for Oakam to reduce the compensation amount by these amounts. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr H and Oakam dont disagree that the loans were lent irresponsibly. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about the mis-selling part of Mr Hs complaint. 
And I agree that the it wasnt right to approve these loans. I wont comment further on this 
issue. 
But I will consider if the compensation offered is fair and reasonable.
The purpose of any compensation should be to put Mr H back in the position he
would be in had Oakam not approved these loans. This means he should be repaid any 
interest and charges (plus interest) he paid on the lending as he wouldnt have paid these. 
But he should return the capital he borrowed as he wouldnt have received this - if Oakam 
hadnt lent irresponsibly. 
In this case Oakham has written off some of the interest and capital Mr H still had to pay as 
part of a debt relief order. It also wrote to him to say that one of his loans was closed at an 
earlier time. Although this seems to refer to a loan which was closed normally (loan 2). But 
Mr H doesnt think the compensation should take into account the amounts that he didnt 
repay as they were written off. 
But I dont think this is right. Mr H should receive compensation for the interest and charges 
he actually paid. If these have been written off by Oakam he hasnt paid them, so there is 
nothing to refund. And if he also hasnt had to repay the loan principal back then the 
compensation he should receive should be reduced to account for this, as he should repay 
the capital. 
And if Oakam didnt reduce the compensation by these amounts Mr H would effectively be in 
the position of having some of the debt amounts written off, but also having it repaid to him. 
Which would put him in a better position than he should be. I dont think this is fair. 
Putting things right
Whilst I think Oakams offer is fair, for the avoidance of doubt I have detailed the 
compensation it should pay in full here. 
Oakam shouldnt have given Mr H loans 1 to 3.
If Oakam has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Oakam is not able to buy the debts back then Oakam should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H having made 
overpayments then Oakam should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Oakam should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Oakam has 
already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Oakam should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H. 
E) Oakam should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation 
to loans 1 to 3. *HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest. Oakam should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr H ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Oakam Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above if Mr H accepts this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman