DRN-3882694
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a claim he made on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr H says Aviva treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr H had the benefit of a legal expenses insurance policy with Aviva. He was involved in 
dispute with a builder for which he needed legal assistance.
Mr H says that in late 2019 he called Aviva and asked them about how to make a claim on 
the policy as he was about to start proceedings against a builder. He says he spoke to an 
advisor and explained he wanted to use his own legal representatives and was told that 
wasnt a problem and that he should do so. When Mr H later called Aviva in March 2021, he 
was told he should submit invoices as he received them. When he later submitted invoices 
for the legal fees hed incurred, Aviva declined to cover them on the basis that they hadnt 
agreed to fund Mr Hs legal fees so they werent covered because werent incurred with their 
prior agreement. Mr H doesnt agree and says his legal fees amount to just under £25,000 
and that Aviva should pay them in line with their verbal agreement to do so.
Two investigators considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. The 
first investigator said there was no record of the call Mr H says he had with Aviva in which he 
says they initially agreed to fund his legal costs. But he acknowledged that the 
representative Mr H spoke to on his second call to Aviva did refer to submitting invoices as 
they became available- although this was in relation to Mr Hs invoices for rectification works 
to be submitted to the builder and not legal costs to Aviva. 
The second investigator reached the same conclusion as the first and went on to say that 
although Mr H had provided several details that he thought supported his position, there 
wasnt enough evidence to conclude that Aviva should be responsible for his legal costs. Mr 
H doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint for the same reasons reached by 
both investigators.
The starting point is the policy terms. They dont cover costs and expenses which are 
incurred before Avivas written agreement and authorisation. In this case Aviva say they 
didnt agree to fund Mr Hs legal costs and they have no record of the call Mr H says he 
made to them in late 2019. 
It's not in dispute that theres no written record of Aviva agreeing to Mr Hs legal costs before 
they were incurred nor that neither party has a copy of the call recording Mr H has referred 
to. So, the issue for me to decide is whether it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay 
the costs in question, given what Mr H says about them agreeing to fund them verbally.
I understand that Mr H feels strongly that a call did take place between him and Aviva in late 
2019. Hes provided some details that he thinks might help with this- like the name of the 
person he thought he might have spoken to and the fact that later calls with Aviva suggest 
the call might have been deleted and that there was a person by that name that previously 
worked for Aviva or their claims handlers or panel firm. And I can see that the second 
investigator thoroughly explored those avenues with Mr H and Aviva to see whether there 
might have been some evidence of a call taking place at all in 2019. 
But even if I accept that it did, Id still need to be satisfied that whoever took the call did 
something that is at odds with the policy terms and the way in which legal expenses 
insurance policies operate generally. By this I mean agreeing to fund Mr Hs legal costs 
during a phone call and without any reference at all to the policy terms, which are usually 
administered very carefully by insurers. This is to ensure the dispute is one which falls within 
cover which encompasses several things, including the requirement that the dispute itself 
has reasonable prospects of success, in accordance with the advice of a suitably qualified 
professional. Policies like Mr Hs wouldnt provide cover for his own legal advisors costs until 
and unless proceedings were necessary. And even when that becomes the case, legal 
expenses insurers dont usually provide open ended funding for those advisors- rather they 
usually limit costs payable to their own terms of appointment at rates they consider 
appropriate. 
In this case the suggestion is that none of the usual processes were applied- starting with Mr 
H making a proper claim in which the finer details of it would be considered- and that Aviva 
simply agreed to fund his legal costs. Its not impossible that the person Mr H says he spoke 
to agreed to this, if for example they had no awareness of the process of a making a claim. 
But I find it unlikely given the very thorough vetting that occurs in claims like this. What I 
think is more likely is that if a call did take place at all, that the advisor might have advised in 
principle on the issue of whether Mr Hs own legal representatives costs might be 
considered when litigation becomes necessary. 
Without a call recording I cant be sure of this. And I think that its quite possible the parties 
might have been at cross purposes on the basis there was clearly confusion on the second 
call in March 2021 on the issue of invoices. During that call the Aviva advisor and Mr H 
talked about the dispute itself. The discussion then turned to invoices. At that point Mr H 
seems to be talking about his own representatives costs whilst Aviva is talking about 
rectification costs that Mr H has incurred to put things right. Mr H took the advice given about 
submitting invoices as they came in to refer to his own representatives costs. But having 
listened to the call, Im certain thats not what Aviva was referring to. So, its not impossible 
that the parties were talking at cross purposes during an earlier call too, if one did take 
place.
Ive also thought about what would have happened if Mr H was given the impression that his 
representatives costs might be covered. If this was the case, I think it would have been 
reasonable for him to ensure the information he was given was correct, at least before 
incurring £25,000 in costs by referring to his policy before incurring them. If hed done so he 
wouldve noted that authorisation for costs wouldve needed to be given in writing before he 
incurred them in order for Aviva to agree to pay them. In this case it doesnt look like Mr H 
contacted Aviva at all for over 12 months. It was at that point he called to discuss how to 
submit invoices. Its unfortunate that the parties were talking at cross purposes during this 
call which may well have compounded any earlier confusion. But in the absence of anything 
in writing that followed confirming he should go ahead and incur the sums he was intending to, I dont think Aviva are responsible for Mr Hs costs.   
And as both investigators said, the issue of funding, including legal expenses insurance, is 
something his representative should have discussed with him. I cant determine any 
wrongdoing on their part because thats not within my remit. Its of course open to Mr H to 
address this with his own representatives or the Legal Ombudsman if he remains 
dissatisfied. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr H will find my decision disappointing, I hope Ive explained why I 
think there isnt enough evidence for me to determine that Aviva treated Mr H unfairly and 
that they should do something different by paying his legal costs when those costs arent 
covered by their policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman