DRN-3693141
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAISL)
dealt with his claim following an accident in his car.
What happened
Mr Ms car was hit in the rear by another driver. At the time of the accident a passer-by
helped Mr M as he was in shock following the accident. Mr M provided the passer-by with
the claims phone number to call in the event of an accident.
While the passer-by was on the phone the Police arrived at the scene and said they would
recover Mr Ms car. The Police also arranged a taxi for Mr M. The passer-by was told in the
call that Mr M should get a receipt for the taxi so he could look at claiming it back later.
Later that day, Mr M called the claims phone number again. Mr Ms call went through to a
third-party company who appear to handle these calls on AAISLs behalf. During the call Mr
M was told he could either claim through his policy or use the services of an accident
management company (AMC). Mr M chose to use the AMC for what is known as credit hire
and repair.
After Mr Ms car had been recovered and repaired, he complained to AAISL about the poor
claim handling and lack of recovery by his insurer. He said they should have handled things
better and didnt think it was right his insurer hadnt helped him more when he had the
accident. AAISL said Mr M would need to speak with his insurer as it would be responsible
for the claim and directed Mr M to who it said his car insurer was. The insurer AAISL told Mr
M to contact explained it had never dealt with a claim but had been made aware of the
incident.
In AAISLs final response letter it said it didnt think it had done anything wrong with the lack
of recovery. It said that Mr M had been able to recover the cost of the taxi he had paid to
take him home from the accident. However, AAISL did acknowledge other aspects of its
communication could have been better and said it could have showed more empathy and
acknowledged its lack of contact. Because of this AAISL offered £60 compensation. Mr M
rejected this and instead AAISL arranged to send him a gift. Unhappy with AAISLs response
Mr M referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2023 where I said: 
Responsibilities of AAISL
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and AAISLs responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
Ive listened to the calls Mr M and the passer-by made; these are both answered by a
different business to AAISL, who Ill refer to as a claims handling company (CHC). As Mr M
called the number provided in his policy for making a claim, it therefore appears the CHC
has been appointed by AAISL to log customer claims and explain customers claim options.
So, when Mr M called AAISL to report the damage to his car, he was automatically
transferred to the CHC to handle the call on AAISLs behalf. This means the CHC was acting
as AAISLs agent and AAISL is responsible for the CHCs actions or omissions during this
call when it discussed Mr Ms claim options and referred him to the AMC for credit hire and
repair.
However, AAISLs responsibility for the CHC is limited to when they were acting on AAISLs
behalf - and AAISL is not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of the AMC. In
other words, the AMC was acting in its own capacity, or another legal entity, when handling
Mr Ms claim  not on behalf of AAISL.
So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the calls between Mr M (and
the passer-by) and the CHC (acting on AAISLs behalf) when he was referred to the AMC for
credit hire and repair, and whether the CHC, as AAISLs agent, met the required standards.
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Mr Ms insurance broker, AAISL was obliged to provide Mr M with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr M contacted AAISL via the passer-by and himself to tell it about his non-fault claim for
damage to his car, AAISL ought to have provided him with clear information about his
options, so he could decide how best to proceed with getting his car repaired.
I appreciate AAISL appointed the CHC to fulfil this task on its behalf, and I dont think
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means AAISL is
ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any third
parties acting on its behalf.
Under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) AAISL was also required to pay due regard to the interests of
Mr M as its customer and treat him fairly. And in line with the Customers best interests rule
under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, AAISL was required to act honestly, fairly, and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its customer. And, if any recommendations were
made, AAISL was required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice, in
line with Principle 9 (PRIN2.1R).
If I find the CHC didnt meet these regulatory requirements during the calls when it referred
Mr M to the AMC (the referral calls), then AAISL would be held responsible.
The referral calls
Ive reviewed the contents of the calls and considered whether the CHC met the
relevant regulatory requirements when acting on AAISLs behalf.
For context, its important to note that in the first call the passer-by was trying to arrange
recovery and a taxi for Mr M. During the call they were advised that Mr M would need to
arrange a taxi for himself, as this is something his policy doesnt cover. But the passer-by
was told that Mr M should get a receipt so he can claim it back. Which I understand he has
done. During the call the Police also attend the scene and say they will arrange recovery.
So, while there are aspects of this call where Im not satisfied the passer-by was made
aware Mr M was being referred to an AMC, there is also a second call later that day.During the second call where Mr M was referred to the AMC, he was told that he could claim
on his motor insurance policy where he would need to pay his excess and only be entitled to
a one litre courtesy car as standard. The advisor then goes on to say the AAISL can:
Offer you at no additional cost to yourself a policy which provides you
with a guarantee that you dont need to pay your excess, the cost of
repairs wont make a claim against your motor insurance policy, and a
similar specification hire vehicle during the duration of the repairs. Okay,
so the second option is more beneficial as it gives you a little bit more
protection and theres no fees to yourself as we cover this. The only
thing I will mention is that its your name on the invoice, but you dont
need to pay this as its all covered by us.
The advisor then asks if Mr M would like to proceed with the second option and Mr M
responds to say hes confused. He then asks if AAISL is giving him a policy to protect the
£400 hell have to pay out. I assume Mr M is referring to his excess here as that is what the
excess is on his motor insurance policy. The advisor then goes on and explains this policy is
a protection for his excess and that every claim makes a dent on his motor insurance policy
so this one prevents the need for claiming on Mr Ms motor insurance policy and says that it
is a separate policy which just covers this incident. Mr M then agrees to proceed with being
referred to the AMC. At the same time AAISL then sets up this other insurance policy to
cover the repair costs and hire car costs in the event those costs cant be recovered from the
third partys insurer.
Although the call handler told Mr M that he could claim through his own motor insurance
policy, Im not persuaded they presented his options clearly and fairly  especially as Ive
noted that Mr M had motor legal assistance as part of his car insurance policy and also had
two add on policies. One for a hire car and the other was an excess protection policy. In fact,
Mr M may have been able to claim his excess back from the third partys insurer as an
uninsured loss, even if he chose to claim through his own insurance policy. And although
any unprotected no claims bonus (NCB) may be affected temporarily by an open or
outstanding claim on a policy, if a claim is closed as non-fault then the NCB isnt affected in
the long run.
So when taking the calls into account Im satisfied AAISL didnt do as it should have so Mr M
could make an informed choice about whether to use the AMC and take out this additional
insurance policy or claim on his motor insurance policy.
Ive therefore looked at what I think would have happened if AAISL had given Mr M the
information needed for him to make an informed choice. When looking at Mr Ms complaint
hes raised frustration about not using his motor insurance policy when he needed it. Im
therefore satisfied that if Mr M had been given sufficient information, he wouldnt have used
the AMC or taken out this additional insurance policy.
When looking at the impact of the poor referral and sale, Ive considered that the additional
insurance policy AAISL set up for Mr M had no additional cost to him, and that he also had
other policies to protect his excess and provide a hire car. This would have meant hed need
to claim on three separate polices if hed have decided to claim on his motor insurance
policy, compared to using just the one additional policy AAISL set up. Ive also noted that
while Mr M wasnt happy with the communication and the lack of recovery. I think his car
would always have been recovered by the Police as thats what the Police arranged when
the passer-by was trying to arrange recovery through Mr Ms motor insurance. So, Im not
persuaded the lack of recovery under his motor insurance policy has caused Mr M a loss.
However, the poor referral has meant Mr M wasnt aware of the parties involved and whenhe did try and complain AAISL incorrectly said he needed to raise the concerns with his
motor insurer when it should have known he hadnt claimed on it.
Its also clear the poor referral has caused Mr M considerable unnecessary distress and
inconvenience in the aftermath of an accident. I say this because hes had to try and find out
which business, hes had to repair his car and arrange the hire car and was upset at not
being able to use his insurer. From his own words he was confused in the referral call as to
what was happening. Therefore, to compensate Mr M for this, and taking into account the
gift already sent, Im satisfied AAISL should pay Mr M an additional £200 for the distress and
inconvenience it caused.
AAISL responded and accepted my decision. Mr M responded to say he never received the 
gift AAISL said it sent. 
I asked our investigator to check with AAISL if the gift had been sent and to provide 
evidence of this. The investigator explained to AAISL that if the gift wasnt sent, I intended to 
increase the distress and inconvenience payment to £260, as this included the cash 
equivalent amount of the gift.  
AAISL responded and said it was happy to take Mr Ms word that the gift hadnt been 
received and would arrange the compensation payment upon his acceptance of my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments and that AAISL is happy to take his word the gift wasnt 
received and has agreed to the increase in compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
£260. Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome as explained above and in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to pay 
Mr M £260 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman