DRN-3217357
The complaint
Mr B complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc has not correctly calculated the amount due if he 
repays a hire purchase agreement early. Secure Trust trades as Moneyway.  
What happened
In February 2018 Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement for a car with Moneyway. Under 
the agreement, he was to make 59 monthly repayments of £457.04 and a final repayment of 
£467.04. Interest would accrue at an APR of 24.6%. 
In July 2021 Mr B requested a settlement figure  that is, he aske Moneyway how much he 
would have to pay to settle the finance agreement early and keep the car. Moneyway 
provided a figure which Mr B thought was too high. Initially, Moneyway said its figure was 
correct, but subsequently identified that it had not taken into account a payment holiday 
which Mr B had taken in 2020. In September 2021 it provided a revised figure, which also 
took into account the additional payments Mr B had made in the meantime. It offered Mr B 
£150 in recognition of its earlier error. 
Mr B still thought that the figures were incorrect and referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered the complaint. He was not however persuaded 
that Moneyway had calculated the amount needed to repay the finance incorrectly. Mr B did 
not agree, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with many regulated consumer credit agreements, the hire purchase agreement 
in this case was set up so that all the interest due over its life was added at the outset and 
the repayments were the same throughout its five-year term (save for the small adjustment 
in the final payment). The effect of that arrangement is that a borrower who repays a loan 
early is disadvantaged because the capital balance does not reduce at the same rate over 
the period of the finance agreement. 
To address that potential unfairness, The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004 allow a debtor under a regulated agreement a rebate when early settlement takes 
place. The right to repay early and the principle of the rebate stem from sections 94 to 97 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Regulations are made under that part of the Act. 
The rebate is calculated by reference to the number of payments made, the amount of 
credit, the number of payments, the period between payments and the interest rate. The 
formula for the calculation is set out in Regulation 4(1):
       
The formula is not straightforward, and the Financial Ombudsman Service is not generally in 
a position to audit a lenders calculations. A financial business is usually better placed than 
we are to work out the figures. In the absence of any obvious error, therefore, I am not in a 
position to conclude that Moneyways figures are incorrect. If Mr B still wants to repay the 
finance early, however, Moneyway will need to update its calculations to take account of any 
further payments which have been made. 
In the circumstances, I believe that Moneyways offer of £150 is reasonable, and I simply 
leave it to Mr B to decide whether or not to accept it. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Secure Trust Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
