DRN-3766935
The complaint
Mr R complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as LiveLend) is holding him liable 
for lending in his name which he says he did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In March 2022, a £12,000 LiveLend loan was taken out in Mr Rs name.  The loan funds 
were credited to Mr Rs bank account, which he then transferred to a third party.  Mr R says 
that he did not consent to the loan; and that he was tricked into making the transfer.  For 
these reasons, Mr R argues that he should not be held liable for the loan.  As LiveLend did 
not agree with this, Mr R raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  Because Mr R did 
not agree with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first thing I must consider in this matter is whether, on balance, it is more likely than not, 
that Mr R consented to the lending in his name.  That is to say, did he take out the lending 
himself, or consent to another to do so on his behalf.
LiveLend says an applicant is asked several questions during the loan application process  
some of which relating to the applicants credit file
In Mr Rs submissions, he says a third party contacted him about selling his carbon credits.  
Mr R also says as he was not prepared to pay out money up front, the third party told him 
they would loan him the money which would need to be paid into an escrow account.  Mr R 
explains that he provided the third party with his bank details but, does not recall providing 
any information regarding his mortgage.
I have weighed up the information Mr R says he provided the third party against the 
questions which would have needed to be answered during the loan application process.  
Having done this, I am unable to safely conclude that the third party took out the lending in 
Mr Rs name without his consent.  I say this because the information Mr R says he provided 
the third party would not have been sufficient to secure the lending.  Further, I have not seen 
any satisfactory evidence to explain how the third party concerned (or any other) would have 
been able to answer the application questions correctly.
Mr R has expressed concerns about LiveLend not carrying out sufficient due diligence 
before approving the loan.  However, having considered the information LiveLend has sent 
me, I am unable to agree with this. 
So, taking all the above factors together, I am persuaded, on balance, that Mr R consented 
to the lending.  It follows that it is fair and reasonable for LiveLend to hold Mr R liable for the 
outstanding lending.
I note that in LiveLends email to Mr R sent on 16 June 2022, it states, amongst other things, 
Even though you [Mr R] are not bound by the terms of the credit agreement (because you 
did not apply for the loan with us) you are still liable to return the money we transferred to 
you.  This is a decision LiveLend is entitled to make if it wishes.  Notwithstanding this, my 
view is that Mr R consented to the lending for the reasons I have already given.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman