DRN-3541687
The complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of himself and Mrs B about the administration of their investments, 
including a pension trading account, an investment trading account, and an individual 
savings account (ISA) by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL).
Mr J says they werent given sufficient notice of changes to the terms and conditions that 
applied to their products. He says IISL didnt explain those changes clearly and the 
information it provided about the differences between the terms wasnt complete or accurate.
What happened
In April and May 2021 Mr Js former provider wrote to its customers, jointly with IISL, to 
inform them their accounts were being transferred to IISL, on 28 June 2021.  This was 
because IISL had acquired some of the old providers business. 
On 30 September 2021 IISL sent an email to Mr J informing him that new terms and 
conditions would apply to his investments from 31 October 2021 and providing a link to 
those terms and conditions. 
There was then an exchange of secure messages between Mr J and IISL about the new 
terms, with Mr J asking for further explanation of the changes to the terms.  
On 19 October 2021 Mr J contacted IISL and asked for further clarification in relation to the 
changes to the terms and conditions being brought in on 31 October 2021.  
IISL sent a document with a summary of the changes to Mr J on the same day.
Mr J responded to IISL and said he thought the information it had provided was unclear. He 
also said the changes to the terms and conditions hadnt been properly explained to him. 
On 21 October 2021 IISL replied to Mr J. It said he could access both the old and new terms 
and conditions so he could compare them and consider any changes. It also noted it had 
provided the summary document.  
Mr J didnt consider the information provided to him by IISL to be sufficiently clear and so he 
made a complaint on 21 October 2021.
IISL didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said it had complied with its regulatory duties by giving 
notice of the updated terms and providing access to those terms, which it said, could be 
compared with the old terms. However, it credited Mr Js account with the equivalent of one 
months service plan fee, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr J disagreed with IISLs response and asked to speak to a company director or a member 
of the compliance team.  IISL said the members of staff requested by Mr J were not 
customer facing staff, so instead a customer service manager contacted Mr J to discuss the 
outcome of his complaint.  
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. He said he and his wife hadnt been able to 
ascertain what changes had been made to their terms and conditions. Mr J said it was 
unreasonable of IISL to expect them to compare the documents and identify any changes. 
IISL said that the financial rules required it to give at least 10 business days notice of the 
changes. It said it had exceeded that requirement by notifying Mr J at the end of September 
2021  a month before the change came in.
Our investigator considered Mr J and Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said IISL was required by the rules to provide Mr J with information on any changes to its 
terms of service, prior to the changes being applied. He said IISL had complied with those 
rules as it had sent the information to Mr J a month beforehand.  
The investigator said the rules required IISL to send a full copy of the new terms so Mr J was 
aware of the terms that would apply to his accounts, and the investigator was satisfied that it 
had done so.  
The investigator also considered whether IISL had acted fairly in the circumstances. He 
thought that by providing the summary of changes document, IISL had attempted to make 
the changes as clear as it reasonably could.  So, the investigator didnt think IISL had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, and he therefore didnt think IISL needed to 
take any further action.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary he said:
They hadnt received good customer service. 
The communications from IISL hadnt been clear or open and as a result they didnt 
know how the changes impacted them.
It was unreasonable to make changes to terms and conditions and not highlight 
those changes so that a customer had to work it out for themself.
He said IISL chose not to provide a summary when it would have been easy to do so. 
He said this might be because it wasnt being open about the changes contained 
within the terms. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr J and Mrs Bs complaint was referred to me for 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr J has brought the complaint on both his account and on behalf of his wife. 
However, as all of the interaction has been between IISL and Mr J, I have focused on those 
events. I also note that Mr J has raised the same points in respect of both himself and Mrs B.
To recap, Mr J held accounts with another provider, which were then acquired by IISL in 
June 2021. As a result of that acquisition, IISL implemented its own terms of service. Then in 
September 2021, IISL sought to amend those terms of service with new terms that would 
come into effect at the end of October 2021. 
Mr J has explained that, prior to receiving the notification on 30 September 2021, he had 
three separate documents which covered the terms and conditions for each account, 
whereas the updated terms and conditions were encapsulated in one document which 
contained 55 pages. 
Mr J says that it is unreasonable to expect him and his wife to look at the two sets of 
documents to see what changes have been brought in by IISL. He also doesnt think the 
summary of changes document gives them a sufficiently clear explanation of the changes. 
He has described that document as confusing and inaccurate. 
Background 
I appreciate this complaint is about IISLs actions. However, by way of background, prior to 
its accounts being transferred to IISL in June 2021, the former provider wrote (jointly with IISL) to account holders, such as Mr J, to inform them of the upcoming changes. It explained 
that new terms and conditions would apply and referred them to its website where further 
information could be found about how this would affect them, including a frequently asked 
questions document, IISLs terms of service issued in September 2020 and other relevant 
product terms.
So, I think advance notice was given to customers about the change in providers to IISL and 
I am satisfied that relevant information about the impact of changes on account holders was 
also provided.
September 2020 terms 
The IISL terms of service issued in September 2020 set out the general terms of service 
between IISL and the account holder and also indicated that they should be read in 
conjunction with other product-specific terms, depending on the product involved. I note that 
Mr J referred to the Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) terms in his secure messages to 
IISL. These were also issued in September 2020.
It appears that no action was taken by Mr J when the migration to IISL took place in June 
2021, and the IISL terms, including the SIPP terms, were first brought in. However, it was 
when IISL sought to amend those terms in September 2021 that an issue arose. 
In any event, I consider that Mr J and Mrs B wouldve been deemed to have accepted those 
initial terms and conditions because I am satisfied on balance that the former provider and 
IISL gave notice of the new terms to their customers, prior to the migration to IISL. And I 
consider IISL, and the former provider, also set out details and relevant links on their 
websites, informing customers of the upcoming changes, including the new terms.
In addition, I think Mr J and Mrs B had the option to change to another provider if either they 
were unhappy with the changes brought about as a result of the move to IISL, or otherwise 
didnt think the new terms had been effectively communicated.
Notification of updated terms in 2021
I am satisfied on balance from the documentation provided that IISL sent Mr J an email on 
30 September 2021, informing him that it was intending to update its terms of service. It also 
explained why it was doing this. The email said:
Dear investor
Were writing to let you know that were updating our terms of service.
Why were updating our terms
Weve made these changes mainly to take account of improvements to our operational
processes and to ensure our terms reflect the current legal and regulatory frameworks
we work within.
I consider that IISLs terms of service and its SIPP terms allowed it to vary the terms of the 
agreement as each had a specific section dealing with this. In that section it outlined several 
examples of what it described as valid reasons for varying the terms. Those valid reasons 
included:
to reflect changes, or anticipated changes, to the law, or interpretation of the law, codes of 
practice or the way that we are regulated; 
andto reflect changes in technology, or to provide for the introduction of new or improved
systems, methods of operation, services or facilities;
It appears therefore that IISL had legitimate reasons for making changes to the terms, as 
were outlined in its notification email (set out above). 
In the case of products with a long duration, such as pensions and some long-term 
investments, it is not unusual for agreements to contain these types of terms. Because it is 
useful for businesses to be able to vary the agreement, so they can adapt to changes in 
legislation, technology, or industry practice, and that can also be beneficial for the consumer. 
However, IISL did have to provide sufficient notice to Mr J of the change in terms. I consider 
it gave Mr J a reasonable amount of notice, as it sent the email to him on 30 September 
2021 and the terms werent due to come into effect until 31 October 2021. This was in line 
with the former terms issued in September 2000, which said that IISL would give at least 30 
days notice of the variation of terms, save for some specified situations where, if necessary, 
they could come into immediate effect.
The variation terms also set out the different ways in which IISL could notify Mr J as follows:
We will give that notice by any one or more of the following methods:
i writing to you;
ii emailing you;
iii posting a message on our Website;
iv posting a message within the secure area of your online Account; or
v placing an advertisement in a national newspaper.
I note Mr J says in the complaint form that his wife also received a similar email at that time, 
so the same factors apply.
Was the information provided clear, fair and not misleading?
IISL had to provide Mr J and Mrs B with information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr J has referred to FCA principle 7 which states:
7 Communications with clients
 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr J hasnt identified a particular term in the new provisions which he says is unclear, unfair, 
or misleading. So, I have carefully considered the information provided by IISL as a whole 
and considered whether that information was clear, fair, and not misleading.
I note the terms and conditions provided by IISL were subdivided into clearly labelled 
sections and included a contents section to help locate the different terms. So, while I 
appreciate Mr Js comments about the length of the document, I dont think it would have 
been too onerous to compare the sections and identify any differences. 
I also note that the summary of changes provided identified the key sections which had 
been amended. It was subdivided into different product areas and highlighted new clauses. 
So, I consider that was an aid to direct Mr J and Mrs B to sections they may have wanted to 
look at more closely.
I also note that Mr J has referred to FCA Principles 6
6. Customers' interests 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. I dont think that IISL treated Mr J and Mrs B unfairly with regards to the information it sent 
them. 
Ultimately, I think that Mr J and Mrs B could compare the two sets of documents and if they 
were unhappy with the updated terms of service, they had the option to move their accounts 
elsewhere. 
Summary 
Overall, I consider that IISL gave sufficient notice of the updated terms and conditions, and I 
dont think the information provided to Mr J and Mrs B was unclear, unfair, or misleading. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr J and Mrs Bs complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman