DRN-3607704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs N booked a holiday abroad online and took out a travel 
insurance policy alongside their booking. The policy was underwritten by ERGO. They were 
due to travel between 8 and 22 August 2020. They paid a holiday deposit of £250.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And in mid-March 2020, Mrs N was signed-off work because she was suffering 
from anxiety caused by the pandemic. 
The balance of Mr and Mrs Ns holiday was due to be paid on 27 June 2020. They paid the 
balance and cancelled the trip on the same day. They made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy for the full cost of their booking.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Ns claim. It noted that Mrs Ns GP hadnt suggested that it 
had been medically necessary to cancel the trip. It also noted that Mrs N had a history of 
mental illness and had been prescribed medication, so it thought she ought to have provided 
a letter from a treating doctor saying that she was fit to travel, in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. And it had concerns that Mr and Mrs N had cancelled the trip on the same 
day theyd paid the balance. Thats because the policy said that trips should be cancelled at 
the earliest opportunity. It added too that the policy excluded claims which were caused by 
the government of any country.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be partly upheld. He noted that 
the policy term ERGO had relied upon in regard to a policyholders mental health only 
applied to trips in the UK. But Mr and Mrs N werent travelling in the UK  they were 
travelling abroad. The policy said that if a policyholder was travelling abroad, they needed to 
tell ERGOs medical screening line if they were prescribed medication. As Mrs N had been 
prescribed medication for her condition for some years, he thought she ought to have 
declared this to ERGO. So he asked ERGO what it wouldve done had Mrs N declared her 
medication. ERGO said it thought it was likely it wouldve charged an additional premium. 
But despite requests, it didnt tell us how much it wouldve charged or how the policy 
wouldve been affected. So the investigator didnt think it would be fair for ERGO to 
accordingly reduce any claim settlement or decline cover.
But the investigator didnt think ERGO needed to settle Mr and Mrs Ns full claim. The policy 
terms stated that if a policyholder didnt cancel a trip as soon as they found it was necessary 
to do so, then ERGOs liability would be limited to the cancellation charges which wouldve 
applied at the point a trip ought to have been cancelled. In this case, Mrs N had been 
signed-off work in March 2020 due to anxiety. So he thought it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs N to have cancelled the trip ahead of paying the balance on 27 June 2020  the 
date of cancellation. If theyd done so, theyd only have incurred the loss of their deposit. 
Therefore, he thought ERGOs liability should be limited to the £250 deposit, together with 
interest. And he recommended that ERGO should settle the claim on that basis.
ERGO accepted our investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept the investigators findings and Ive summarised their responses 
to him:
Theyd hoped to still be able to travel, but as the time grew closer, they realised this 
would be impossible due to the escalation of the pandemic and Mrs Ns anxiety;
Theyd followed guidance on national news to pay the full balance of a trip;
They felt ERGOs claims handlers had acted dishonestly and had tried to deter them 
from pursuing their claim;
They didnt think ERGO had a specific policy which was designed for travel to their 
destination;
ERGO had made assumptions about Mrs Ns mental health and the medical 
certificate doesnt include fields large enough to accurately capture information.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I think that ERGO has now 
agreed to settle their claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ns policy and the available evidence, to decide whether ERGO treated 
them fairly.
Was the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Ive first looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy. This says that 
ERGO provides cover in the event of a policyholders illness. In this case, the certificate from 
Mrs Ns GP shows that she was suffering from anxiety due to the pandemic. So I think she 
provided enough evidence to show she was claiming for something the policy covered.
It's clear that ERGO considered parts of the policy which didnt apply when it assessed the 
claim. I say that because Mr and Mrs N werent cancelling their trip because of government 
restrictions  they were cancelling it because of Mrs Ns health condition. And its also clear 
that ERGO incorrectly relied on the policy health conditions which applied to UK-only travel. 
I understand this mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs N. But I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that ERGO was trying to put them off pursuing their claim, or deliberately turning 
down their claim in error. It seems to me that these were genuine mistakes made by the 
claims handler during the life of the claim.
As the investigator explained, if a policyholder is travelling outside the UK, then different 
policy conditions apply. One of those states that if a policyholder has been prescribed 
medication, then they need to call ERGOs medical screening line. Its common ground that 
Mrs N had been prescribed medication on an ongoing basis, so strictly, she ought to have called ERGO to let it know about this. But ERGO wasnt able to tell us exactly how such a 
declaration wouldve affected Mrs Ns cover and what, if any, additional premium wouldve 
been applied. So the investigator didnt think ERGO had demonstrated that it was entitled to 
reduce the policy cover or settle the claim proportionately. I was pleased to note that ERGO 
agreed with the investigators conclusions on this point and so I dont think I need to make 
any further finding here.
Should ERGO pay the full claim?
The cancellation section of the policy sets out a special condition relating to claims. This 
says:
If you fail to notify the travel agent, tour operator or provider of accommodation and/or 
transport as soon as you find it necessary to cancel the trip, our liability will be restricted to 
the cancellation charges that would have applied if a delay had not occurred.
Theres no dispute that Mrs N was signed-off from work with anxiety on 19 March 2020. By 
her own account, her anxiety grew as the pandemic escalated and while I appreciate she 
and Mr N hoped to travel, they say it became evident that they wouldnt be able to do so. 
Given the trip was some five months in advance of Mrs Ns initial sign-off from work and 
given the unprecedented situation surrounding Covid-19, I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Mr and Mrs N to have realised in March 2020 that the trip would need to be 
cancelled.
But I do need to bear in mind that the evidence shows they paid the trip balance on 27 June 
2020 and they told ERGO that they cancelled the trip on the same day. So it seems to me 
that its most likely that Mr and Mrs N knew, when they paid the balance, that they wouldnt 
be able to travel and would be cancelling a short while later. Had they not paid the balance; 
their loss wouldve been limited to the cost of the holiday deposit - £250. This wouldve 
represented ERGOs liability under the policy had they cancelled when I think they knew 
they couldnt travel. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs N say they were following media 
guidance in paying the balance, I think they had a responsibility to mitigate their own (and 
ERGOs) losses. By choosing to pay the balance despite knowing theyd need to cancel, I 
think they prejudiced ERGOs position. And so I think its fair and reasonable for ERGOs 
liability to be limited to what Mr and Mrs Ns losses wouldve been had they cancelled ahead 
of paying the balance. This means I think ERGO is only required to pay Mr and Mrs Ns 
deposit cost, together with interest.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket. But I 
find that ERGO has now agreed to settle their claim fairly. Id add too that while I understand 
Mr and Mrs N feel the medical certificate isnt as well drafted as it might be, I have no power 
to tell a business to change its operations or procedures. So Im not able to tell ERGO to 
change its medical certificate or the questions it asks.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to settle Mr and Mrs Ns claim for the costs of their 
deposit  £250. I also direct ERGO to pay interest on the settlement at an annual rate of 8% 
simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If ERGO considers its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest it has paid, 
it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs N a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman