DRN-2944458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a pet insurance policy they have with Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). Theyre unhappy that a claim they made in the autumn of 
2020 was declined because it considered the condition was linked to a previous one.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold a branded pet insurance policy for their dog. The policy is underwritten 
by RSA. The policy provides cover for any condition for a period of 12 months. After that 
time all claims for the same condition would be declined. 
In October 2019 a claim form was submitted for treatment the dog had received between 
May and October 2019 for otitis externa causing AMD. The claim was settled and RSA 
highlighted the 12 month window for claiming for the same condition would end on 
7 May 2020.
In August 2020 a claim was made for treatment between June and September 2020 of a 
continuation of otitis externa causing AMD. The vet detailed on the claim form that the 
condition had first been noticed in May 2019.
The vet notes from June 2020 say flare of amd on rhs face. It was then detailed at the end 
of July the problems with the face were healing well, but the problem had now started on the 
legs. There was no indication in the vet notes that the vet considered she was treating the 
dog for more than one medical condition.
RSA declined the claim as it considered it had been made outside the 12-month condition 
limit. Mr and Mrs M werent happy with that decision and when discussing it with RSA, Mr M 
said he hadnt been aware of the 12-month limit on cover. He was told RSA would review its 
decision if further information was provided by the vets. In the meantime, RSA offered 
Mr and Mrs M £80 for its delays in handling the matter and the various calls Mr M had made. 
The compensation was accepted. 
The treating vet provided additional comment following this. She said the dog was initially 
seen on 27th July regarding a patch of Acute Moise Dermatitis on the right-hand side of his 
face, this was treated with antibiotics and steroids and at a subsequent appointment otitis 
externa was identified in his right ear which appeared to be contributing to [name] scratching 
at the right ear/side of his face and likely resulting in a patch of AMD. The OE was treated 
with Osurnia and responded well, the patch of AMD and the OE resolved. 
[name] was subsequently seen on 30th July, where it was noted that the patch on his face 
was healing well, but generalised hyperpigmentation and loss of hair was noted all over his 
limbs so his thyroid level was checked. I believe that this generalised skin condition is 
separate from the OE and should be considered as a separate claim, [name] was seen 
subsequently for both his ongoing skin condition and also for his ears, the treatment for the 
subsequent otitis comprised of otomax ear drops, whereas the generalised skin condition 
was treated with prednisolone, cephacare and bravecto with a good response. 
As noted on 9th September [name]s ears were clean with no wax seen at all, whereas his 
skin was generally in poor condition with marked hair loss, pruritis and multiple crusty 
lesions.
RSA didnt think the further comment from the vet explained why the two conditions differed, 
it wasnt supported by the notes from the time of treatment and didnt explain why the vet 
had described the claim as a continuation of the 2019 one. It continued to decline the claim 
as it remained satisfied the 2019 and 2020 conditions were the same. As the policy only 
covered conditions for a period of 12 months, and it had been more than that since the first 
incidence, RSA said the claim had been made outside the condition time limit and so was 
excluded. 
Mr M didnt accept RSAs decision and referred it to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they werent expecting 
to be paid for all the treatment their dog had received; only that for his body, as that was 
separate to the problem with his ears. They highlighted this is what the vet said after the 
claim was declined and suggested the claim forms had been incorrectly completed by an 
administrator at the vet practice. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms further comments, but they didnt change her 
conclusions. As such, Mr and Mrs M asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint revolves on whether Mr and Mrs Ms dog was treated for the same condition 
in 2019 and 2020. Mr and Mrs M, and latterly their vet, have said that the dog was suffering 
from two distinct conditions in 2020, only one of which was linked to the 2019 problems. 
I have considered the initial information from the vet  this says the 2020 treatment being 
claimed for was for a continuation of the 2019 problems. The clinical notes from the vet also 
indicate that initially there was a flare up of the same condition in the same areas as treated 
in 2019. While following the initial consultation in June 2020 it is detailed there were 
symptoms on other areas of the dogs body, there is nothing in the notes to indicate the vet 
thought it was a separate condition. In those circumstances, I dont consider RSA was wrong 
to have declined the claim on the basis it was outside the 12-month treatment window that 
had started in May 2019. 
I have noted what the vet said after the claim was declined. However, her comments arent 
supported by the notes she made at the various times she was treating the dog. In addition, 
she hasnt explained why she concluded that there were two conditions present from 
July 2020 or what the second one was. Overall, I am not persuaded the vets additional 
comments are sufficient to negate the information contained in the claim form and the clinical 
notes. 
As such, I dont consider RSA was wrong when it declined the claim made in October 2020.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman