DRN-4025119
The complaint
Miss S complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender gave her loans she couldnt 
afford to repay. Miss S says she wasnt asked to evidence her income and she was in a 
vulnerable position at the time. 
What happened
Miss S was advanced three loans between November 2020 and July 2021. A summary of 
her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment
1 £200.00 06/11/2020 14/05/2021 6 £95.73
2 £500.00 14/05/2021 01/07/2021 6 £211.33
3 £1,500.00 01/07/2021 outstanding 12 £408.50
Following Miss Ss complaint Mr Lender wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold 
the complaint about any of the loans because it had carried out proportionate affordability 
checks before these loans were granted. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Lender offered to only collect the capital amount owed 
on the final loan. At the time of the final response letter, it said Miss S would still owe it 
£518.53. It also said, once the loan had been repaid it would remove the loan record from 
Miss Ss credit file. 
Mr Lender acknowledged that the loan was currently being paid through a Debt Arrangement 
Scheme with a third party. And so, it said that in order to accept the offer it would need 
written confirmation from the third party that this can be accepted as part of her debt 
scheme. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in her latest assessment she 
explained she wouldnt be looking at loan three, because in her view, Mr Lender had already 
made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Miss S. Indeed, she confirmed the 
offer was in line with what she may have recommended had she agreed the loan ought to 
not have been provided to Miss S.  
However, the adjudicator then considered the complaint about loans one and two and said 
based on the information gathered by Mr Lender it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans.  
Miss S didnt accept the proposed outcome saying all the loans were unaffordable and she 
doesnt think the offer is fair. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Ss complaint.  
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Miss S told Mr Lender her monthly income was £1,520. Miss S had declared 
monthly outgoings of £672 to cover a number of different items including food, other credit 
commitments and utilities. Miss S declared she had zero costs for rent / mortgage. However, 
Miss S told Mr Lender she lived at home with parents, so it wouldve been reasonable of 
Mr Lender to therefore believe the costs she had provided. Based solely on the information Miss S declared to Mr Lender, it wouldve been reasonable 
for it to believe Miss S would be able to afford her monthly repayment of around £96 per 
month. 
Mr Lender has also said it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the summary of the results it received. It is worth saying that 
there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have carried out a credit search 
let alone one to a specific standard. But what Mr Lender couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to any concerning information that it may have seen. 
So, although Miss S has provided a copy of her full credit report, Im not, in this case going 
to be considering it, because Mr Lender did a credit search and has provided a summary of 
the results which it saw at the time it reviewed Miss Ss application.  I can therefore see what 
Mr Lender was told about the other creditors that Miss S owed money to at the time. In my 
view, Mr Lender was also entitled to rely on the results it was given as it didnt have anything 
to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, Mr Lender knew that Miss S wasnt insolvent and 
hadnt had any County Court Judgements recorded against her in the last 3 years. 
Mr Lender was also told that at the time Miss S didnt have any outstanding payday loans. 
Thinking about the credit checks results as well as the income and expenditure information, 
there was nothing else that Ive seen that wouldve led Mr Lender to believe that it needed to 
go further with its checks it carried out  such as verifying the information Miss S had 
provided. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to 
have relied on the information Miss S provided about her income and expenditure to show 
she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything 
else to suggest that Miss S was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments 
would be unsustainable for her. 
Loan 2
Miss S repaid loan one on time and without apparent difficulty. She returned for loan two on 
the same day she successfully repaid loan one. 
The same sort of checks was carried out by Mr Lender before it approved this loan. 
Miss S declared her monthly income was £1,900 with monthly outgoings of £810. This left 
disposable income of £1,090 which was more than enough for Mr Lender to believe that 
Miss S could afford her loan repayments. 
A credit check was also carried out before this loan was approved, and the results showed 
much the same as they did for loan one. Expect this time, Mr Lender was on notice that 
there was an active payday loan. 
Now, given the proximity of when this loan was applied for, it is possible the active loan that 
Mr Lender knew about was the loan that Mr Lender had previously provided. But even if I am 
wrong about this, and Miss S had another payday loan given to her by another provider that 
still wouldnt change my mind about the outcome of this loan. I say this because the 
information provided showed that Miss S could afford the loan repayments. 
It was still early on in the lending relationship, and I once again think it was entirely 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have approved this loan based on the information that it was 
given. I also dont yet think it had reached the point where it wouldve either have thought the loan was unsustainable for Miss S or it had yet reached the stage where it needed to verify 
the information she had provided. 
So, I am also not upholding Miss Ss complaint about this loan. 
Loan 3
I wont be making a finding about this loan because in the final response letter Mr Lender 
has also agreed to firstly, remove any interest or fees from the outstanding balance it 
collects and secondly, it has agreed to remove the loan from the credit file once it has been 
repaid. Which is no better than we would direct Mr Lender to have done if we had found in 
favour of Miss S for loan 3. 
Mr Lender has reiterated the offer it made in the final response letter is still available to Miss 
S, and as of March 2023, the offer would mean Miss S still has £431.61 worth of capital to 
repay. I therefore wont be looking at loan three in this decision because in my view, Mr 
Lender has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Miss S in relation to this 
loan. 
To be clear, if I were to look at this loan, and decided that it ought to not have been granted 
to Miss S  than I wouldve asked Mr Lender to in effect make the loan interest free and then 
update Miss Ss credit file. So, what Mr Lender has already agreed to do is what the 
Financial Ombudsman wouldve likely asked it to do  had no offer been made and it had 
been decided the loan ought to not have been provided.
The offer put forward by Mr Lender in the final response letter is fair and reasonable to 
resolve this part of her complaint. Miss S may also want to discuss the offer that has been 
made with the company who she is repaying her debts through. 
Other considerations
After the complaint was referred here, Miss S recently received some news about her health. 
I thank her for providing details of this and I want to just say Im sorry that she received the 
news that she did. Miss S has shown us she has shared the news of this diagnoses with 
Mr Lender, and it has confirmed with the Financial Ombudsman that it  upon closure of this 
complaint - will work with Miss S through its specialists support team.  
I want to be clear, that Mr Lender is now on notice of Miss Ss health conditions and what it 
means for her moving forward. It therefore has to treat her fairly and with forbearance taking 
account of her situation and keep all available options open as to what happens with the 
balance. 
I appreciate Miss S says she is vulnerable and has provided documentary evidence to 
support this. But at the time the loans were granted I cant see that she told Mr Lender about 
this. And as Mr Lender didnt know about her vulnerability it wasnt in a position to make any 
adjustments and it was entitled  as the regulations permit  to grant these loans as long as 
it had carried out proportionate checks. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about loans 1 
and 2.PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve 
the complaint about loan 3 and it should do what it has agreed to do in the final response 
letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman