DRN-4062899
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) treated him 
following a claim made under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Mr W or HICL includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive provided a summary of 
events here.
Mr Ws vehicle was involved a fire. So, he made a claim under his HICL motor 
insurance policy.
Mr W complained to HICL about a range of issues, including:
oBehaviour of HICL staff, including alleged offensive comments, unhelpful 
handling, failure to complete security verification, data protection concerns, 
and ending calls prematurely without cause, failing to engage with Mr W on 
the phone and by post as he requested for medical reasons, extensive 
waiting times and the cost of the related phone calls.
oMr Ws vehicle not being stored in a secure location. And a delay in receiving 
items following the claim, certain items going missing and being damaged. 
This included a tool kit, an empty petrol tank, radar detector, rubber car mats 
and a spare wheel. And a light box for the vehicle was damaged.
oVarious concerns about HICLs complaint handling.
HICL provided its final response in September 2022. In summary, it recognised 
various failings on behalf of its agents and staff in places, including:
oFailure to make reasonable adjustments by contacting Mr W by text and 
email. And that its handling of the claim fell below the standards it would 
expect. It agreed it had failed to ask appropriate security questions in a call. 
And it agreed its telephone waiting times were longer than they should be. It 
also acknowledged some failings in its complaint handling.
oHICL said it shouldve returned items to Mr W sooner than it did. And while it 
said it had taken steps to try to prevent any damage to the light box, it 
acknowledged it had still been damaged.
oHICL awarded £825 in total compensation for the above issues. It said the car 
mats had been impacted by the fire, and the petrol tank would not be able to 
be returned due to it containing possibly hazardous materials. It agreed the 
spare wheel was impacted by the fire. So, it said it would pay £200, the policy 
limit, for personal possessions to account for the mats, petrol tank and spare 
wheel. It said the light box was very rare and could not be replaced in the UK, 
nor repaired. So, it said it would settle this for £1,000 as the value was 
subjective and appeal only to a specific market. 
oHICL also said a comment from an agent calling Mr W mate did not amount 
to sexual harassment. It said some calls were ended after 30 minutes as it 
had agreed with Mr W in advance, they would not exceed this timeframe. It 
said a single point of contact (which Mr W requested) was not possible for 
commercial reasons.
oHICL said it was not a breach of data protection laws to send correspondence 
without recorded delivery. It said there was no evidence to show the radar 
and tool kit were in the vehicle, but it would reconsider this upon receipt of 
appropriate evidence. HICL said it wasnt possible for Mr W to speak directly 
to its executive team alongside other concerns about its complaint handling 
that it defended. 
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. He initially upheld the complaint in part, saying:
oIt was unfair for HICL to rely on the £200 policy limit for items it lost outside of 
a claim. So, it directed HICL to pay or replace such lost items.
oThe compensation award of £825 was fair.
oThere was limited information available about the price of the light box. So, he 
didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest its sum of £1,000 was 
unfair. But he said HICL should reconsider the matter upon receipt of further 
evidence that Mr W said he would obtain.
oSome of the specific data issues were better placed to the ICO.
Mr W said he would try to obtain quotes or offers hed had for the lightbox  and 
challenged how it reached its own valuation of the item. He also questioned why 
HICL refused to share information about the recovery company involved in the claim 
that had left it in an unsecured location. 
HICL responded and disagreed. It said Mr W had failed to demonstrate he had a tool 
kit in the car that was damaged in the claim. It said following its final response Mr W 
had provided a receipt of the radar detector at a cost of £24.99 which it had settled. It 
said it had provided a sum of £1,000 for the light box on the basis of Mr W providing 
a similar item on an online auction website for less than this sum. It also said it hadnt 
refused to provide insurance information from the recovery agent, and Mr W could 
contact them directly.
The Investigator looked again at the complaint. He clarified he would only be 
considering matters up until the date of the final response letter (30 September 
2022), and revised his view, saying:
oMr W had been clear he would like a single point of contact for his claim. This 
was also requested by an organisation on Mr Ws behalf that deals with 
discrimination issues. 
oHe agreed HICLs approach to the light box valuation was fair in light of no 
opposing evidence.
oAs HICL had said, he agreed it was for Mr W to demonstrate he owned the 
tool kit and any other items that he has said were taken and to provide 
evidence to show they were present in the vehicle. And if he were to prove 
this, HICL should consider this outside of the policy terms.
oIt would be Mr Ws choice if he seeks to take action against the recovery 
agent, but any details about them should be sought from the agent directly, 
and not HICL.
Mr W responded. He said he should be compensated for the further stress caused by 
not having a single point of contact. He said HICL had a photo of the car which showed the missing items in it. He said he would agree to nothing less than £2,000 
for the light box.
HICL said a single point of contact wasnt manageable for it. It said its staff work 
different shift and rota patterns and taking into account leave, it could not provide this 
level of guaranteed contact to Mr W, particularly given the number of calls he had 
made. It said Mr W had also frequently asked for particular contacts to be taken off 
his claim. 
The complaint was passed to another Investigator. He put HICLs comments about a 
single point of contact not being practical in the circumstances to Mr W. And he said 
this was fair. Mr W still disagreed and has said HICL has stopped responding to him.
So, the complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. I want to be clear that this decision considers 
the events up until 30 September 2022  the date of HICLs final response letter, and not 
matters that followed.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
Mr Ws initial complaint to this Service spanned many issues. Since our Investigators 
involvement it seems many of these issues have been resolved. So, within this 
decision Ive focused mainly on the issues that are yet to be agreed between parties.
These matters concern three main areas. The settlement of items within Mr Ws 
vehicle that he says went missing. The value HICL has settled Mr Ws light box for. 
And its claims and complaint handling, and whether it shouldve done more to 
support Mr W and his needs. Ill look at these in turn.
Missing items
Mr W said a tool kit, radar detector, an empty petrol tank, rubber mats and a spare 
wheel all went missing and were not returned to him.
HICL has agreed to cover the majority of these items. It said the rubber mats, the 
petrol tank and spare wheel were involved in the fire, and that they could not be 
returned to Mr W as a result of their damage  including the petrol can containing 
potentially hazardous material.
Im satisfied HICL took into account reasonable considerations when disposing of 
these items. And it has agreed to cover them in line with the policy terms. So, I see 
no reason for it to do anything further on these matters. 
The radar item has also since been settled upon receipt of such an item to the value 
of £24.99. So, this issue also falls away.
The remaining item is the tool kit. HICL says it has asked for evidence of such an 
item and any supporting documentation  including photos or receipts. Mr W has said 
a photo of the trunk of the car shows the items lost. But having reviewed everything provided, I cant see he has provided any clear documentation to support this item 
was present in the car or the value of such an item. So, Im not directing HICL to 
cover any such cost. If Mr W can present any supporting evidence (as he did with the 
radar), I would expect HICL to reconsider it in line with the policy terms.
Light box 
The light box is a rare item. Mr W and HICL have both completed searches to try and 
find a replacement item and it seems this is not possible. HICL has offered the sum 
of £1,000 in line with a similar item found on an online auction website. He says this 
isnt reflective of the value of his own light box. 
But Mr W has been unable to provide anything further, such as an expert appraisal, 
to support his claim it is worth substantially more. Im satisfied HICL has gone to 
reasonable lengths to try to establish the light boxs value and the offer it has made is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in light of the available evidence. 
Should Mr W be able to provide further evidence that supports his claims about its 
worth, I would expect HICL to reconsider this.
Handling 
The issues around HICLs handling have largely been resolved with Mr W accepting 
the sum awarded for its mistakes regarding a range of issues. So, I wont go over 
these again suffice to say Ive considered all of these matters carefully and Im in 
agreement HICLs offer of £825 is a fair and reasonable sum for these issues.
The main issue that remains outstanding in relation to HICLs handling of his claim 
and complaint is Mr Ws request to have one point of contact. 
Mr W has referenced discrimination laws and HICLs obligation to complete 
reasonable adjustments which he says it hasnt met. Ive taken into account all the 
relevant law when deciding this complaint, and Ive carefully considered HICLs 
handling of this matter based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. If Mr W would like a specific decision on whether HICL has breached 
any discrimination laws, he will need to take this matter to court as it will be best 
placed to consider this.
I want to be clear that I dont doubt that in some instances a single point of contact 
will be beneficial for some individuals. So, Ive considered HICLs reasons for not 
agreeing to this request.
HICL has said it has taken this request seriously and decided a single point of 
contact would not be practical for its business in this instance. It said its staff work 
different shift and rota patterns which means Mr W may not be able to reach the 
single point of contact if they were working different shifts or on annual leave or not at 
work through sickness. And it said taking into account the levels of contact it has had 
from Mr W, it believes such a request would not be feasible and cause a detriment to 
Mr Ws position as it would be frustrating if that nominated person wasnt available. 
These seem like sensible considerations to me, and it strikes me that HICL has 
thought about Mr Ws wellbeing when making this decision. Having thought about 
this carefully Im satisfied HICLs decision that it would not be feasible in this case to 
have one point of contact due to the challenges involved is reasonable. So, Im not 
going to direct it to do anything further. In turn, nor will I award any further 
compensation for this issue.
Other issuesMr W seeks details of the recovery agents insurer. And hes asked HICL to provide 
this to him. HICL has said the recovery agent self-insures so any action or 
correspondence needs to be direct with the agent. In light of these facts, Im satisfied 
theres nothing else for HICL to do.
Mr W has also raised concerns about HICL failing to engage with him, and its agents 
not reading his emails. These events have all taken place after HICLs final response 
was issued in September 2022, so fall outside the scope of this complaint. For 
context however HICL has said it has stopped responding to Mr W unless he could 
provide any new information, for example a further receipt of any outstanding item. 
And it said this was due to the conversations between parties going over the same 
topics and not being beneficial for either Mr W or its own staff.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman