DRN-4403099
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue). 
What happened
In September 2022 Miss B took out a hire purchase agreement with Blue for a used car. The 
car was just over five years old and had a cash price of £7,894. Under the terms of the 
finance agreement, Miss B was to pay a deposit of £500 followed by 60 monthly instalments 
of £211.58. 
Miss B says she had a number of problems with the car making a strange noise, water 
leaking into the boot, and the door handle not working properly. She says it went back to the 
supplying dealer for two weeks in February 2023 for repairs, but this didnt resolve the 
issues. 
In March 2023 Miss B complained to Blue. She sent them a vehicle health check and invoice 
shed obtained from a garage, listing the faults with the car. But Blue didnt uphold her 
complaint - they said these issues would be classed as general wear and tear. Unhappy with 
this response, Miss B brought her complaint to us.
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he thought the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B. To put things right, he thought Miss B 
should be able to reject the car, bringing the agreement to an end, and receive a refund of 
her deposit. He said Blue should also pay Miss B £250 compensation for distress or 
inconvenience shed been caused. 
Miss B was happy with our investigators proposals as to how her complaint should be 
resolved. Blue disagreed  Ill summarise the main points they made:
The issues still outstanding appear to be water ingress and a faulty door catch. 
The door catch was replaced in February 2023 as a goodwill gesture. This damage 
was caused by someone trying to open the door when it was in safety mode.
The water ingress was caused by damage to the rear bumper, which hadnt been 
present when the car was supplied to Miss B. The dealers attempt to repair this 
wasnt a repair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, so Miss B doesnt now have 
grounds to reject the car. 
The garage that examined the car for Miss B confirmed there was evidence of 
accident damage to the bumper. 
If the damage had been present when she first got the car, Miss B wouldve 
complained about water ingress within the first month. This would be expected to be 
seen earlier than four months after delivery. 
Blue provided photos showing the condition of the car when it was supplied to Miss B and 
when she returned it for repair in February 2023. As Blue didnt agree with our investigators 
view of Miss Bs complaint, its come to me for a final decision.
After reviewing the evidence, I wrote to both parties setting out my thoughts on the case. I 
didnt receive any further information or comments in response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Miss B entered into was hire purchase, so Im satisfied I can consider her 
complaint about it. Under this type of agreement, Blue are the supplier of the car. This 
means theyre responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, is seems likely a court would 
take into account things like its age, mileage, and how much the customer paid for it.
In this case, the car was just over five years old when it was supplied to Miss B. I havent 
seen anything to confirm the exact mileage at that time, but from online MOT records I can 
see it had covered at least 51,688 miles. It cost £7,894, which is significantly less than it 
wouldve cost when it was new. 
I dont think a buyer would expect this car to be in perfect condition. I think theyd probably 
expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I think theyd still expect it to 
be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied, and to be able to drive it 
for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Im satisfied that theres now at least one fault with the car. Ive seen copies of the vehicle 
health check and invoice Miss B obtained, dated 27 March 2023, stating:
Water ingress in boot  further investigation required (seals etc)
Suspect offside door lock required.
I consider these to be significant faults because I think its important for the boot to stay 
reasonably dry when its closed, and to be able to open the doors. I wouldnt consider the car 
to be of satisfactory quality with those faults present. The point for me to decide is whether 
one or both of these faults was most likely due to an issue that was present or developing at 
the time the car was supplied to Miss B. 
Ive considered when these problems first came to light. Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 
17 February 2023, which records the following investigation work having been carried out at 
the supplying dealers expense:
Carry out checks for water ingress into boot area
Found water entering via rear vent behind bumper
Trace O/S/R door lock fault to catch mechanism.
If a car isnt of satisfactory quality within six months of delivery - as is the case here - the 
CRA makes it clear that I must start from the presumption that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
from the start. There are exceptions to this. The presumption doesnt apply if Blue can demonstrate that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was delivered. And it doesnt 
apply if the nature of the fault isnt the kind of thing that can reasonably be presumed to have 
been present when the car was delivered.
Blue say the problem with water seeping into the boot was caused by accident damage to 
the rear bumper. Theyve told us that both of the garages that examined and repaired the car 
reported signs of accident damage. But I havent seen any supporting evidence about this. In 
particular, I havent seen any supporting evidence that shows the car has been damaged 
since Miss B got it. 
Ive very carefully examined the photos Blue provided, showing the condition of the car 
before it was delivered and when it was later returned to the dealer. Im unable to see signs 
of accident damage in any of these photos. If there is damage to any area of the car, I dont 
consider it to be obvious. The evidence Ive seen shows the water was collecting in the area 
where the spare wheel is stored. So, I dont agree that Miss B would - or should - have 
noticed how much water was leaking into the boot sooner.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the evidence Blue have provided shows the water 
seeping into the boot is due to something thats happened to the car since Miss B got it. It 
follows that I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B. I dont 
consider it necessary to discuss the issue with the door lock.
Putting things right
The invoice dated 17 February 2023 shows the following repair was carried out on the boot 
to fix the leak:
Remove rear bumper/lamp units/vents
Clean/dry/reseal and refit all parts.
As Ive seen evidence showing there was still a problem with water getting into the boot the 
following month, I think it most likely that this repair was unsuccessful. So Im satisfied that 
Miss B now has the right to reject the car. 
I understand Miss B is currently still using the car. I think its fair that she should pay for the 
use shes had of it. So, Blue should make arrangements to collect it on a date thats 
convenient for her, bringing the agreement to an end on the date its collected. And they 
should refund the £500 deposit she paid. 
Miss B has provided evidence showing she paid £40.80 for the vehicle health check on 27 
March 2023. I think its fair for Blue to reimburse her that cost.
I think Miss B has been caused stress and inconvenience by being supplied with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. The evidence Ive seen shows the problem with water leaking 
into the boot has been going on for some time. Miss B took it back to the supplying dealer to 
try to fix it, and then to another garage to look into why the problem was still happening. I 
think Blue should pay Miss B £250 for the stress and inconvenience these issues have 
caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Make arrangements to collect the car without charge to Miss B, on a date thats 
convenient for her.
End the agreement on the date the car is collected. No penalty charge should be applied for ending the agreement early. 
Refund the £500 deposit Miss B paid.
Reimburse the £40.80 Miss B paid on 27 March 2023 for diagnostic work.
Add 8% simple interest to each of the refunded and reimbursed payments, calculated 
from the date of each payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Miss B £250 for the stress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
If Blue consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Miss B how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman