DRN-2800274
The complaint
Mrs S is represented by her son Mr S under a power of attorney. He complains that in 
respect of Mrs Ss home insurance claim for theft, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
delayed dealing with the claim and hasnt paid a fair settlement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs S suffered a burglary after three men forced their way into her home, 
stealing a safe containing money and a large amount of jewellery. Mr S made a claim to 
Admiral, who appointed loss adjusters to investigate the claim. This took some time, as 
Admiral was concerned about the circumstances of the claim, the policy having only been 
taken out some two months before the burglary. The police report was applied for, this was 
then received in mid-August 2020. 
Mr S provided photos of the jewellery stolen. Based on the photos he provided a valuation 
from a local jeweller in the sum of over £35,000. Ten items were estimated as being worth 
more than £1,000 each. Admirals jewellery supplier estimated the value at over £26,000 
with four items valued at over £1,000 individually. In addition a considerable amount of cash 
was kept in the safe. The total contents cover as applied for by Mr S when taking out the 
policy was £25,000. Admiral said it would pay the limit for high risk items, of £12,500. In 
addition it would pay £500 for the safe and the policy limit for money, a further £500.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this, arguing that the items worth individually less than £1,000 
werent high risk so their value of £8,225 should have been included within the overall 
contents cover. He believed Mrs S was entitled to receive a further payment in that amount.
Admiral viewed this as a complaint and provided its final response on 7 January 2021. It 
didnt uphold the complaint but paid £50 compensation for its delay. Mr S then accepted a 
payment of £13,500 to settle the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Admiral had acted reasonably and within 
the terms of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim
When Mr S took out the policy on Mrs Ss behalf, he asked for a total contents value of 
£25,000. He was aware that Mrs S had a safe containing a substantial amount of jewellery 
and had taken photos of each item. The policy is clear that jewellery items are classed as 
high risk. The policy schedule itself makes it quite clear that for High Risk items there is a 
total limit of cover of £12,500. Also the policy schedule says: Single unspecified High Risk 
items worth more than £1,000 must be specified in the table above to be covered to their full 
value.
Mr S chose not to specify any items as being valued at over £1,000. But all jewellery items are High 
Risk and therefore come within the cover limit for High Risk items. I dont think theres anything 
ambiguous about this in the policy. Admiral decided to pay the claim up to the policy limit for High Risk 
items, of £12,500 and to pay the limit for money, of £500, and £500 for the safe, which isnt a high risk 
item. I think that was a fair and reasonable settlement.
delay
I think there was some delay in paying this claim. But I cant say that Admiral was wrong to carry out 
an investigation as it had concerns about the circumstances and about a member of the family. Also 
the police report took some time to come through. I do think that, after it made the offer in August 
2020 which Mr S queried, rather than treating it as a complaint which took a further three months to 
resolve, it should have explained to Mr S why it disagreed with his view of what a high risk item was. I 
note that it paid £50 because of its delay. 
I do have to take into account that Mr S was acting for Mrs S in his role of power of attorney and 
carried out all the dealings with the claim. I cant award compensation to him personally and to a great 
extent he took on the inconvenience caused by that delay. So I think the compensation payment, 
given the upset caused to Mrs S, was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman