DRN-1676915
 
The complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms M took out a loan with Halifax in 1992. Halifax also sold her PPI, the cost of which was 
paid by monthly premium. The PPI covered Ms Ms monthly repayments if she couldnt work 
due to disability and unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms M disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M says she didnt need PPI and that she wasnt told it was optional. Unfortunately, 
Halifax no longer holds a copy of, say, a loan application form or a signed loan agreement 
that might have been completed. I understand Ms Ms frustration with the lack of information, 
but I dont find it surprising given the time thats since passed since the sale took place. 
I recognise its possible Ms Ms recollections of the sale are accurate. But, Im mindful that its 
at least equally possible she did want PPI at the time and has since forgotten. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe I have enough evidence with which to uphold 
the complaint on these grounds. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms M. So, among other things, it had to take steps 
to make sure it was right for Ms M. I dont know if it did that, but I believe it was right for her 
in any case. For example, she was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt appear that Ms M was 
significantly affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
Ms M was entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy pay, which she says meant she 
didnt need PPI. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Ms M 
became unemployed. And I note the PPI potentially met the loan repayments for up to 60 
months per claim, on top of Ms Ms sick pay, if she suffered disablement. So, I think Ms M 
still had a need for the PPI, not least because the loan was a major financial commitment 
and the potential consequences of not keeping up with the monthly payments were 
significant.Ive thought about the life cover/death in service benefit Ms M held but that would have paid 
a lump sum on her death. The PPI, on the other hand, was primarily designed to pay a 
regular benefit in the event of disability or unemployment. Im satisfied the policies operated 
in different ways. 
Halifax also had to give Ms M good enough information about the PPI. This was so she 
could make an informed decision about buying it. As I say, I believe its just as likely as not 
that she wanted to take out the cover. And I cant, for the same reasons I think the PPI was 
right for her, see what other information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out  it 
provided useful benefits at a cost that I believe was affordable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Ms Ms lost out because of how Halifax sold her 
the PPI or how it handled her subsequent complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman