DRN-2972775
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society has recorded her address incorrectly on its 
records.
What happened
Ms S says Nationwide has incorrectly sent correspondence to a family members address. 
She says she was paid compensation in 2019 but the problems have continued. Ms S says 
her credit file has been affected and is concerned that Nationwide may have given Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) an incorrect address when she opened an ISA. 
She also complains about Nationwides response to this problem and says she has been 
caused distress and inconvenience. Ms S would like compensation and for Nationwide to fix 
the problem once and for all.
Nationwide says the problem is caused by Ms S being a joint card holder with the person at 
the other address. It says it has tried to sort the problem out but accepts it may re-occur. 
Nationwide has apologised for what took place and says its paid £450 compensation and 
offered a further £300.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid and 
offered appropriate. The investigator thought Nationwide had tried to sort the problem out 
and couldnt order it to sort out the problem once and for all. The investigator didnt think Ms 
S held an ISA account and so didnt think HMRC would have received any information from 
Nationwide. And thought any correspondence had gone to the address of a relative with 
whom Ms S held a joint account card.
Ms S doesnt accept that view and in summary says she did have an ISA and that incorrect 
information was reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). She questions why we 
do not have the power to order Nationwide to fix the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that this problem has been ongoing for some time and accept that Ms S has been 
caused concern and inconvenience. I also appreciate Ms Ss frustration that what appears to 
be a simple issue, cant be resolved once and for all. And I make clear to Ms S that having 
looked at the letters she has given us, it does seem she opened an ISA account and that 
Nationwide hasnt answered her question about what it has reported, if anything, to HMRC.
I also make clear to Ms S that we are not Nationwides regulator. That means it is not our 
role to punish it or to order it to change as in this case its systems to ensure the address 
issue is fixed. I say that as I can see Ms S questions why we cant make such an order. I 
also think it would be pointless for us to make such an order in circumstances where 
Nationwide has made clear that it simply cant guarantee that mistakes will not re-occur due 
to the joint account card issue.
The key question here is the level of compensation. I have made clear that I think there has 
been a significant impact on Ms S and that this problem has been ongoing for some time. I 
find that Nationwide has paid £450 compensation for the same issue and has now offered a 
further £300 making a total of £750. I think that further offer fair and reasonable and I have to 
consider the overall impact and that the previous award is linked to this complaint. I dont 
think Ms S has suffered any direct financial loss. And I also take into account that the 
correspondence was sent to an address very close to Ms Ss and to a family member where 
the risk of fraud was far less than if sent to a non-linked address.
I appreciate Ms S says her credit file was affected. I have not seen a copy of Ms Ss credit 
file and Nationwide hasnt told me if it was responsible for any change of address on it. I 
dont think it clear why a change of address would affect a credit score in such a way and I 
have not seen any evidence of a direct financial impact caused by any change. Even if I was 
able to hold Nationwide responsible for that, I make clear I wouldnt have ordered any further 
compensation as Im satisfied overall the offer is fair and reasonable.
I accept that Ms S has provided evidence that she opened an ISA. In those circumstances I 
appreciate her concern that Nationwide may have given HMRC incorrect information about 
her address. So, I think Nationwide should update HMRC with the correct address if its 
records confirm that Ms S did open an ISA.
Overall, I appreciate Ms S will have unanswered questions about why this address problem 
remains and concerns about if it repeats itself. No doubt Ms S will consider if she wishes to 
hold the joint account card or if she wishes to continue holding Nationwide accounts if the 
address issue cant be resolved. I hope Ms S appreciates why I cant fairly order Nationwide 
fix this problem once and for all.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £300. Ms Ss acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. I also order Nationwide Building Society to update HMRC with 
Ms Ss correct address if she has or held a Nationwide Building Society ISA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman