DRN-2273461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Abbey National but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 1999 to protect 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered Mr W for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs W mainly said that it wasnt made clear to them that the policy was optional and 
not compulsory in order to be approved for the mortgage. Mr and Mrs W also said the policy 
was surplus to their requirements as they wouldve had no difficulty keeping up the mortgage 
monthly repayments if Mr W wasnt able to work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs W. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs W or Santander to have kept this. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr and Mrs W mightve forgotten some of the details 
of this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs W say isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W wouldve been aware that 
when they arranged their mortgage in 1999 they wouldve had to apply separately for the 
cover if they wanted to have it. 
I've seen nothing on their mortgage application, or on their mortgage offer, that its likely 
wouldve made Mr and Mrs W think that having PPI was compulsory in order to get the 
mortgage they wanted.  
And although I havent seen how Mr and Mrs W applied for PPI, Mr W must have filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage. 
So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs W that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI and it was added to the account when they chose to take it out. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time. Ill explain why I say this.
It looks to me like Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. 
I havent seen anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the policy benefit was 100% in 
Mr Ws name.
I've taken carefully into account what Mr W told us about his likely sick pay entitlement from 
his employer. Its completely understandable that after so long its been hard for him to 
remember exactly what his sick pay wouldve been. Based on everything hes told us, like 
our adjudicator, Ive looked at this complaint on the basis that Mr W couldve been entitled to 
at least 26 weeks full pay  and its possible he mightve got half pay after that for another 
6 months. 
The policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So it 
seems likely that the PPI provided better protection than Mr W couldve relied on getting 
through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr and Mrs W 
with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that they mightve had 
some extra costs as a result of Mr W being sick or disabled. And, at best, its likely he 
wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months (if he was still receiving 
any sick pay from his employer at all by then). 
Also the PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr W lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible. So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs W long term cover.
Looking at what theyve told me about their circumstances, I think having PPI couldve been 
helpful for Mr and Mrs W at the time, even if theyve forgotten now why they decided to have 
it. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been 
at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. I think its likely that losing Mr Ws 
income wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances  even if Mrs W was still 
earning. So, I can see why they mightve felt it was useful having PPI to protect his income. 
In coming to my decision I've also thought about Mr and Mrs Ws financial situation generally 
 they mentioned having substantial savings at the time that couldve been put towards 
paying the mortgage. But it looks like it was some time after the mortgage was set up before 
Mr W received an inheritance. And theres no mention of any significant savings in any of the 
mortgage paperwork Ive seen. 
I also think, if they had any savings, it looks like they must have wanted to keep that money 
intact rather than use it to reduce the cost of their borrowing. So, by having PPI, this meant 
Mr and Mrs W could rely on being able to keep their savings to spend on other things or to 
provide them with financial security. So, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W taking into account everything theyve 
told us about their situation at the time.  
Its possible some of the information Mr and Mrs W were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Ws case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs W when they bought the policy. 
But the PPI was separate from the mortgage and they wouldve had to sign an instruction 
form to their bank to cover the monthly cost. So it seems Mr and Mrs W were happy at the 
time to pay for it and the policy appears to have been affordable for them. 
As they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given 
clearer information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Ws particular situation. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of anything that 
Santander mightve done wrong when it sold them PPI in 1999. So it doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman