DRN-4043996
The complaint
C, a club, has complained about the settlement offered by Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited for its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It is also unhappy about the way the claim was handled.
What happened
C runs a sports club. It had a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. The policy 
ran from 13 November 2019 to 12 November 2020.
In March 2020, C made a claim to Hiscox after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. A few days later Hiscox declined the claim.
The Financial Conduct Authority pursued a business interruption insurance test case in 
which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different types of 
Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court handed 
down its judgment in January 2021 (The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1). 
Following the outcome of the test case Hiscox contacted C and asked for information about 
the claim. It accepted Cs claims for the two lockdown periods (from 24 March 2020 to 
4 July 2020 and from 5 November 2020 to 2 December 2020) when the club had been 
closed. It said the third lockdown fell within a later policy which excluded cover for Covid-19. 
C thought it should be covered under the policy for its losses over the maximum indemnity 
period of 24 months.
In May 2021 Hiscox made an interim payment of £2,500. In July 2021 it offered £3,508 to 
settle the claim less what it had already paid.
C refused to accept Hiscoxs offer as it didnt think Hiscox had fairly assessed the claim. It 
didnt accept that the indemnity period should be limited to the first two lockdowns. It also 
estimated that it had lost a number of new members as a result of the lockdowns stopping 
initiatives intended to attract new members. It thought Hiscox should pay at least another 
£3,176.
C complained to Hiscox. Hiscox maintained its decision regarding the settlement. It said that 
C was only covered for the lockdown periods. It also said its calculation of Cs loss took 
account of the trend increases for membership as well as the new membership initiatives. 
But Hiscox agreed that its service should have been better. It paid C £300 compensation for 
that.
After the complaint was brought to this service, Hiscox told us that it would pay C simple 
interest on the settlement amount at a rate of 8% from 60 days after the insured event 
occurred.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I though Hiscoxs offer was fair. An extract 
from my provisional findings is set out below:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when settling the claim. 
Hiscox accepted Cs claim under the public authority clause. This covered business 
interruption losses caused by:
your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following:

an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease. There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of 
Covid-19. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the 
vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically 
targeted the claimant business alone. As such, this section of the policy would provide cover 
to a business that had been unable to use their insured premises due to such restrictions. 
The policy defines indemnity period as:
The period beginning at the date of the insured damage, the date on which the 
loss of licence takes effect or the date the restriction is imposed, and lasting for 
the period during which your income is affected as a result of such insured 
damage, loss of licence or restriction, but for no longer than the number of 
months shown in the schedule.
The policy schedule says that the indemnity period is 24 months. I interpret this to be 
the maximum indemnity period.
It seems to be accepted that the indemnity period started on 24 March 2020. The relevant 
question is how long it should last.
The term insured damage is defined as physical loss or physical damage to property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I havent seen any 
evidence that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property which led to an interruption of 
Cs business. Also Cs income wasnt affected due to loss of a licence. So, I think the 
indemnity period should last for so long as Cs income was affected by restrictions preventing 
it from using its premises following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease. 
I have started by considering the restrictions in place in March 2020 and when those ended. I 
dont think that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. In 
March 2020 the UK Government introduced regulations that required businesses such as C 
were required to close. On 3 July 2020 those regulations were revoked, although outdoor 
sports clubs such as Cs had been allowed to reopen in May 2020 provided they adhered to 
strict guidelines.I believe that when the regulations were revoked in July 2020, this ended the first indemnity 
period under Cs policy for this claim period. I say that because the Government restrictions 
were reviewed and changed over time. Before sports clubs in England was allowed to 
reopen, the Government issued guidance setting out a range of measures for them to make 
their premises safer from a Covid-19 perspective such as spacing out equipment to maintain 
social distancing, queue management or one-way systems, enhanced cleaning and 
providing hand sanitiser etc. Also continuing concerns about Covid-19 meant many people 
were slow to resume their normal leisure activities even though restrictions had been lifted. I 
think this shows that things had moved on from the original event causing the loss under the 
policy (restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19) and by 
4 July 2020 that same event could no longer be said to be the main cause of Cs losses.
When C was again unable to use its premises due to the restrictions implemented on 
5 November 2020, those would be new restrictions as a result of new cases of the disease. 
Therefore, this would need to be a new claim but it was still covered by the same policy 
because the indemnity period had started before the policy expired. By the same reasoning 
as above, this second indemnity period ended on 2 December 2020 when these restrictions 
were lifted.
However, by the time of the third lockdown a new policy was in place when this new period 
of loss started. The claim for this loss would need to be considered under the new policy. 
This complaint is about the decisions of Hiscox under the 2019-2020 policy. As the claim 
was after the end of this policy, I think it is fair and reasonable it wasnt considered under the 
2019-2020 policy. I also understand the new policy had an exclusion, which Hiscox has said 
means the claim isnt covered.
I think that Hiscox has interpreted the indemnity period correctly and in line with the policy 
definition.
When it comes to calculating Cs losses for the indemnity periods, the policy says:
The amount we pay for loss of income will be amended to reflect any special 
circumstancesaffecting your businessin order that the amount paid reflects as 
near as possible the result that would have been achieved if the insured damage had 
not occurred.
Most of Cs income is derived from membership fees. C has referred to special events which 
it thinks would have increased its membership. I have no reason to doubt that this would 
have been the case. But I can see that Hiscox did take into account an anticipated increase 
in membership from recruitment drives. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Hiscox based 
its calculations on inaccurate projections of an increase in membership. 
What C mainly seems to be objecting to is the fact that projected lost revenue from new 
members has been adjusted on a pro-rata basis and only paid for the periods of the two 
lockdowns covered by the policy. As explained above, the indemnity periods ended when 
the restrictions were lifted. So I think Hiscox was entitled to adjust this potential lost income 
on a pro-rata basis rather than pay it over a maximum period of 24 months. 
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. I do think  Hiscox  took longer  
than it should  have  done  to pay Cs claim.  The initial  decision  to decline  the 
claim  was shown by the outcome of the test case to be incorrect. If Hiscox had not 
already offered to pay interest, I would have awarded it in order to put C back in the 
position it would have been in if Hiscox had accepted the claim originally. It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess a claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this for a claim of this nature would be around 
two months from when C first made its claim in March 2020 in order to wait for losses to 
accrue and to give Hiscox a reasonable amount of time to assess the claim. I think the offer 
by Hiscox is in line with what I would have directed it to do.
Hiscoxs incorrect rejection of Cs claim initially caused it some inconvenience. In addition 
Hiscox appointed two loss adjusters who provided conflicting information resulting in 
unnecessary correspondence and misunderstandings. But overall, having looked at the 
service C received from Hiscox, Im satisfied that the sum of £300 paid by Hiscox is fair to 
compensate it for the inconvenience caused.
In summary C made the following points in response:
1. The policy doesnt say that the indemnity period should end on the date that 
restrictions were lifted.
2. The policy says that, subject to the 24 month limit, the indemnity period should last 
until the date when the income ceases to be affected by such restrictions. 
3. The clubs Easter and Summer activities would have boosted membership and the 
club was affected by that loss of income after the lockdowns ended.
Hiscox said it had paid the interest on the settlement amount and offered C an additional 
£200 in respect of any distress and inconvenience it might have been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding the loss of income from new members who might have been expected to join 
after the Easter and Summer activities, I think its necessary to look at the indemnity period 
in conjunction with the insured peril. The policy covers Cs losses resulting solely and 
directly from an interruption to its business caused by an insured peril (in this case, 
restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable disease). 
Once Cs club was able to reopen, a range of other factors such as social distancing, 
concern about infection and the economic situation might have deterred those potential new 
members from joining. So I dont think at that stage the loss of potential new members can 
be said to be solely and directly caused by the lockdown restrictions. I think the indemnity 
period should end when the restrictions were lifted because after that point Cs loss was no 
longer solely and directly caused by the insured peril.
As Hiscox has now paid the interest, I dont need to require it to do any more regarding that.
If C wishes to accept the offer of additional compensation, it should contact Hiscox directly.
Putting things right
As explained above, Im not going to require Hiscox to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has added simple interest to the settlement at a rate of 
8% a year from 60 days after the insured event occurred to the date of settlement and I think 
this was fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman