DRN-4059221
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a payment it didnt make.  
Mrs W, who is a director or R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons: 
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Mrs W failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep Rs personalised security details safe. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why. 
Mrs W received a call that appeared as Cashplus on her phone. The caller said they 
were from Cashpluss fraud team and took her through some security questions. So, 
given how the call appeared and the familiar processes, I can see why Mrs W trusted 
they were from Rs genuine bank  I think lots of people wouldve done.  
Cashplus said Mrs W shouldve done more to verify the caller. But Im mindful that 
most people dont go to lengths to verify their inbound calls from businesses  
instead, people are more used to questions being asked of them. So I dont think this 
means that Mrs W acted with very significant carelessness compared to a 
reasonable person  to say that she failed with gross negligence. 
Mrs W recalled she was told someone had attempted to spend Rs money, so they 
needed to reset the security details. As part of this, they asked her to forward an 
email she received from Cashplus.
Cashplus submit she shouldve been concerned by this request  it points out that 
the email address she was asked to use wasnt Cashpluss. But Im mindful that most 
people arent familiar with their banks fraud processes to question whats a 
legitimate request or not. I appreciate Cashplus has shared communications to warn 
its customers of scams. But I can understand how someone might not remember 
these general messages in the heat of the moment  particularly if, like Mrs W, 
youve been made to feel panicked about keeping your money safe. 
And while the email address wasnt, of course, legitimately Cashpluss, I dont think it 
was looked so far-fetched that it was clearly unconnected. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think Mrs W seriously disregarded an obvious risk  to conclude that she failed 
with gross negligence 
So, in line with the PSRs, I dont think R can be fairly held liable for this unauthorised 
payment and Cashplus need to put things right  by refunding the total of the 
unauthorised payment, alongside interest to compensate it for the time its been out 
of pocket. 
Cashplus shouldve refunded this payment much sooner. Because it didnt, R has 
had the inconvenience of being without the money and having to pursue this for 
some time. So I also award £100 to reflect its non-financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Rs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay R the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £2,928.60.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Rs inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman