DRN-2608044
The complaint
Mr J complains about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered for his car under 
his motor insurance policy after it was deemed to be a total loss. Hes also unhappy that it 
took his car away when he wanted to repair it. 
What happened
Mr J was involved in a collision with another car. UKI assessed his car and deemed it to be 
beyond economical repair. It offered Mr J £3,470, less the policy excess, in settlement of his 
claim for the cars market value. But Mr J said this wasnt enough to buy a replacement. He 
provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. Mr J also said UKI had taken 
his car when he wanted to repair it. He was unhappy with its handling of his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKIs 
offer for the cars market value was higher than that provided by the guides we use. He 
thought the policy terms and conditions entitled UKI to dispose of the car after it was 
deemed to be a total loss. He thought UKIs handling of Mr Js complaint was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr J asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the accident and the effect this had on Mr J and his family. I can 
understand that he wants a reasonable settlement for the loss of his car. 
UKI assessed the car and the likely repair costs exceeded the cars value, so I think it 
reasonably decided to deem the car to be beyond economical repair. I can see that Mr Js 
policy allows for the cars market value in the case of total loss. This is defined as:
the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr J disagrees with our approach. He thought his car was worth about £4,250. 
But we think our approach is fair to all parties. 
UKI based its valuation on one guide and its engineers opinion. But I can see that our 
investigator checked the guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and 
condition as Mr Js at the date of its loss. Mr Js car had significantly higher mileage than the 
average for cars of its age and I can see that this had an impact on its market value. 
Mr J provided examples of similar cars to his advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The investigator found that UKI had offered Mr J the highest of the valuations provided by 
the guides. So I think UKIs settlement was fair and reasonable, in keeping with our 
approach, and I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr J said UKI had taken his car without his consent. Our approach is that when a car is 
written off and deemed a total loss under a motor insurance policy, as Mr Js car was, the 
insurer, in this case UKl, becomes the owner of the salvage only after the consumer accepts 
payment of the cars full market value. 
We dont require an insurer to actively offer the consumer the salvage. But our stance is 
that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer to allow this. The 
car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to keep it if they wish 
to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its settlement offer 
what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
So Ive looked to see whether there was evidence that Mr J told UKI that he wished to retain 
the cars salvage. 
I can see a file note explaining that UKI collected the car as Mr J said he didnt feel safe 
driving it. The car had structural damage and was deemed to be unroadworthy. The file 
notes then state that Mr J wasnt retaining the car and he was asked to recover any personal 
possessions and return the keys. I havent seen any mention of Mr J saying he wanted to 
retain the car when he was provided with valuations or when he was issued with a payment. 
So I dont think theres evidence that Mr J told UKI that he wanted to retain the cars salvage. 
And so I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably in disposing of the car. 
Mr J was unhappy with how UKI handled his complaint. I can see that when he first said he 
was unhappy with the cars valuation, a second engineer reviewed this and didnt think it 
should be increased. Mr J then made a complaint and I can see that UKI investigated this 
and responded to him. I havent seen that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman