DRN-3223686
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S have complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
decline a theft claim they made following a break in at their home. Mrs K and Mr S made a 
claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs K and Mr S reported a burglary to their insurer Acromas. Acromas 
investigated the claim and said there wasnt enough evidence to show any sign of forced 
entry into the property. So it said it was more likely than not that Mrs K and Mr S hadnt 
locked the front door or windows before going to bed. It said if they had, there would have 
been signs of damage to the front door in order to successfully break into the property. So 
Acromas declined their claim. 
Mrs K and Mr S asked us to look at their complaint  as Acromas didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator thought Acromas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mrs K and Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are key available items of evidence which Acromas considered when investigating 
Mrs K and Mr Ss claim. These include neighbouring CCTV footage, a police report and an 
investigators report following an interview with Mrs K and Mr S. 
CCTV footage shows an individual attempting to access cars and houses in the street where 
Mrs K and Mr S live. Out of shot for around five minutes, the footage then shows the 
individual walk from Mrs K and Mr Ss property, access a car which belonged to them and 
reversed it off their drive. 
Mrs K and Mr S told the investigator that on the evening before Mr S locked the front door 
before going to bed. 
The police report stated that they could find no forced entry to any of the windows or doors 
at ground floor level. The report read that it would appear the (front) door was left unsecure 
although Mrs K is adamant it was locked. They reported that a tidy search had been made of 
the property and keys to the car had been stolen along with other items. 
Mrs K and Mr Ss policy with Acromas has endorsements which it applies. This isnt unusual. 
I can see that the following endorsement read:
Fitting and use of door and window locks
When you go to bed for the night or leave your home unattended, cover under this 
policy against loss or damage by theft or attempted theft, vandalism or acts of 
malicious people will only apply if you have fitted the following door and window locks 
required by us.
The locks must be used and the keys removed from them. (Apart from the window 
locks in the bedrooms that are being used.)
Due to the type of lock for Mrs K and Mr Ss front door, Acromas said there would have been 
damage as evidence of forced entry in order for an individual to have been able to access 
the property if it had been locked. And so it said in the absence of evidence of forced entry, 
on balance the individual has been able to access the property without force and so the lock 
wasnt fully engaged. 
I appreciate that Mrs K and Mr S say the policy doesnt specifically say it will not meet a 
claim where there are no signs of forced entry. And they are adamant they locked the front 
door the evening before. They feel its unreasonable that we havent considered that they did 
lock the front door - as there isnt any evidence of how the thief gained access to the 
property. 
But I think Acromas properly investigated the claim and considered all of the available 
evidence. And having done so, there was a reasonable expectation to find evidence of 
forced entry to the property where the front door and windows had been locked in line with 
the policy conditions. 
As there was no evidence to support this, I dont think Acromas decision not to meet the 
claim was unreasonable. 
I understand that being burgled - as well as having to deal with Acromas decision to reject 
their claim - has caused Mrs K and Mr S some distress. And I appreciate that they have lost 
valuable items which they say they cannot afford to replace. 
But having carefully considered all of the information available, I think Acromas decision not 
to meet their claim was reached in a fair way and in line with the policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K and Mr S. But this means Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman