DRN-3284413
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss S was given a loan of £5,100 by EDL in May 2019.  This was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of around £368. The total amount payable, including interest, was just 
over £13,266. I understand the loan has been settled.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think that EDL had done 
anything substantially wrong in providing the loan to Miss S. She didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ss complaint.
There are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss S irresponsibly. 
This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that she 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a borrower 
focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. But there was no set list of 
checks EDL had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
EDL carried out some checks before it lent to Miss S. This included asking for details of her 
income and rent, carrying out some credit checks and requesting bank statements. EDL 
calculated Miss Ss regular living expenses using ONS data and assessed her monthly credit 
commitments. 
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by EDL, including the credit report and 
bank statements Miss S provided to EDL at the time.  From what Ive seen, I think the 
checks that EDL carried out before lending to Miss S were reasonable and proportionate, in 
the circumstances. 
The credit report acquired by EDL showed Miss S had outstanding credit of around £7,500 
but there was little adverse information on the credit report. From what Ive seen, EDL was 
aware from Miss Ss credit report and her bank statements that she had regularly been 
taking high cost short term lending in the months leading up to her loan application. But I 
dont think EDL ought reasonably to have concluded from Miss Ss bank statements that 
there were signs of significant financial distress, such as regular high levels of gambling or 
significant bank charges for unarranged overdrafts  or frequently returned requests for 
payment, all of which might have signalled to EDL that Miss S was experiencing severe 
financial difficulties. From what Ive seen, EDL concluded that Miss S was receiving an 
average monthly salary of around £3,148. She was also occasionally transferring additional 
sums into her account from another account. Which might have suggested to a lender that 
Miss S may have had access to some other funds and that she was managing her account 
quite carefully, even though she was regularly borrowing from high cost lenders.
EDLs customer accounts notes indicate that Miss S told the lender that she intended to 
consolidate her payday loans with the EDL loan. I have considered whether the extent of 
Miss Ss existing credit meant that EDL ought reasonably to have concluded that Miss S 
would be unlikely to repay her loan sustainably. But it seems to me that EDL considered 
Miss Ss ongoing credit commitments, the level of her income and what it knew about her 
expenditure and took into account the likely positive impact of consolidating some of her 
existing debt. On balance, I cannot fairly say that I think EDL ought reasonably to have 
concluded that lending to Miss S would be unfair or irresponsible in some way. 
Did EDL treat Miss S unfairly in some other way?
Overall, I havent seen anything which makes me think that EDL treated Miss S unfairly in 
some other way. And from what Ive seen, I cannot fairly say that EDL ought reasonably to 
have concluded that it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend to Miss S, in her 
circumstances. 
 
I know Miss S will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure her I have 
carefully considered everything that both she and EDL have told us and all the evidence that 
has been provided. Having done so, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman