DRN-3248335
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card account 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr G says he opened the MBNA credit card account in 2019 and it didnt carry out 
appropriate checks on his application. He says he was in significant debt and by March 2021 
that amounted to about £43,000. Mr G says he would like the debt written off and interest 
refunded back to him. He says the debt has caused him stress.
MBNA says Mr G applied for the account in 2019 taking advantage of a zero percent offer. It 
says he declared an income of £29,000 and it carried out checks on his credit file which 
didnt show any adverse information. It also says it checked Mr Gs debt and carried out 
affordability checks and approved a credit limit of £5,800. MBNA says Mr G told it some time 
after the account was opened in 2021 that he had financial problems caused by a downturn 
in his business.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought MBNA carried out appropriate checks on the application and on Mr Gs credit file 
which did not show any concerns. The investigator thought MBNA refused two applications 
by Mr G to increase the credit limit and that the financial problems took place some years 
after the account was opened caused by the downturn in Mr Gs business.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says MBNA should have checked his tax return which 
would have shown an income about the same as the credit limit of £5,800. He accepts he 
had the benefit of the money and will repay the debt if MBNA removes interest. Mr G also 
says the application was pre-filled and accepted before he had a chance to check the 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that if Mr G wishes to 
make an offer to MBNA about the debt then he will need to speak to it.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of cause vary depending on the amount and 
type of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a loan 
or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected MBNAs checks to have been as detailed as 
for that type of lending. But of course, appropriate checks must still be carried out.
I appreciate Mr G says the original application was pre-filled and he didnt have a chance to 
check it. But Im satisfied that it was Mr Gs responsibility to make sure the information was 
correct and accurate. I also think it unlikely that an application could be submitted without an 
opportunity to check it and that its likely Mr G would have completed parts of the application 
himself. I also appreciate Mr G says his income was overstated. But Im satisfied he would 
have submitted that information and that it would not be appropriate or reasonable for MBNA 
to check an applicants tax history. I also think it unlikely that MBNA would be allowed to do 
so without express permission from Mr G.
I can see from MBNAs records that it did check Mr Gs credit file which didnt show any 
adverse information and that it did carry out affordability checks on the application which Mr 
G comfortably passed. So, Im satisfied MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Mr Gs application and that the approval of the account was not irresponsible or 
on the face of it unaffordable. I appreciate Mr G says by March 2021 his debt had increased 
to over £40,000 but I have to consider the levels in 2019 when the account was opened and 
can see his debt was well under half that amount.
I can also see that in 2021 Mr G told MBNA that his business had suffered due to the global 
issues. I think it was those issues that led to Mr Gs financial problems rather than the 
original decision to allow this account to be opened. I think that there is further evidence of 
that in that Mr G managed his MBNA account appropriately for some time after it was 
opened.
Overall, Im satisfied MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on this 
application. It follows that I cant fairly order MBNA to refund any charges or interest which I 
think were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman