DRN-4437122
The complaint
Mr F complaints that Domestic and General Insurance Limited PLC (D&G) declined his claim 
under his extended warranty insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F experienced a fault with his fridge freezer and freezer and tumble dryer. He contacted 
D&G, as he believed that the appliances were covered under his policy. D&G sent an 
engineer who inspected the fridge freezer and declined the claim at the appointment. The 
D&G engineer had found that the fridge freezer was infested with insects. And under the 
policy there was no cover for appliances that had been damaged because of animals.  
D&G confirmed with Mr F that the claim would remain declined. It relied upon the policy 
terms that stated that any damage caused to appliances, other than by pet dogs and cats, 
was excluded under the policy. And even if there was no damage caused to the appliance by 
the animals, then the policy stated that it was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure that the 
appliance was safe for D&G to work on. Given the level of infestation, D&G deemed that the 
appliance wasnt safe to work on, so had also declined cover under this term. 
Further, D&G said that there was no cover for the tumble dryer and freezer, so it wouldnt 
carry out any repairs for those appliances.
Mr F complained to D&G, as he believed that he was fully covered for all the appliances. In 
its final response, D&G maintained its position. And as Mr F had been given his referral 
rights, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the policy terms and conditions were clear and not unusual, as Mr Fs fridge freezer 
had suffered an infestation, D&G had relied upon the policy terms to fairly decline cover. 
Which he said was fair. He also agreed that there had been no cover for the freezer and 
tumble dryer, so there was nothing further he could ask D&G to do. 
D&G accepted the view, Mr F did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr F, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the evidence by both parties, and this included listening to the sales 
call, to see what was agreed and what Mr F asked to be covered. 
First dealing with the declined claim. Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, to see 
whether D&G were fair to decline the claim. And I think it was, so Ill explain why. 
The policy states the following exclusion: 
Any loss, damage or impairment to functionality caused by theft, attempted theft, neglect, 
deliberate damage or damage caused by animals (other than pet cats or dogs), plants to 
trees.
From this exclusion, it means that if the appliance has suffered from damage caused by 
animals (in addition to other perils), this is not covered by the policy. Having reviewed the 
term, I dont think it is unusual or unclear, so I wouldnt have expected D&G to have 
specifically highlighted it, over and above its inclusion in the policy, which is what it did. 
In addition, even if no damage had been caused to the fridge freezer by the infestation, then 
contained within the policy terms is the following: 
You must arrange any work required to make our appliance accessible and compliant with 
all relevant safety standards and safe to work on (as determined by our engineer). We will 
not do any work where these standards are not met.
D&G provided evidence to show that there was a significant infestation to Mr Fs fridge 
freezer. Its engineer provided evidence that the infestation made it unsafe for any repair to 
take place. Mr F hasnt provided me with sufficient evidence that is contrary to this. 
Consequently, Im persuaded that the infestation made it unsafe for D&G to work on the 
fridge freezer, so I dont think it was unreasonable to rely on this term when it declined to 
cover the repair of the fridge freezer. 
Ive next considered whether Mr F was covered for the tumble dryer and another freezer. Mr 
F said that he had been told, during a sales call, that he was fully covered for all the 
appliances. That is, the fridge freezer, a tumble dryer and another freezer. 
I asked D&G for a copy of the sales call, which Ive listened to. During the call, Mr F enquired 
about cover for his fridge freezer (the appliance that D&G declined to provide a repair on) as 
well as a cooker. It seems that Mr F had another appliance that he had cover on. There was 
no mention at all of a tumble dryer nor was there mention of a further freezer. 
In addition, Ive looked at the policy documents and schedule of cover indicates just the 
fridge freezer. Mr F hasnt provided me with any policy documents that would indicate that 
he had cover for an additional freezer and a tumble dryer. Nor has he provided me with any 
evidence that shows that he was paying a monthly premium for cover for those appliances. 
D&G said that the only cover (apart from a cooker) in existence was for the fridge freezer 
(that it declined to repair). Based on this, as there has been no evidence provided from Mr F 
to show that there was cover for the tumble dryer and an additional freezer, I cant agree that 
D&G are responsible for either repairing or replacing the tumble dryer and the additional 
freezer. 
I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feeling about this complaint and I understand that my 
findings are likely to be a disappointment. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, 
I havent seen enough evidence to show that D&G acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to 
tell it to do anything further here.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman