DRN-3957919
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined his travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr R took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by 
Admiral.
He booked a flight for September 2022. On the morning of the flight, he was informed 
it had been cancelled. He therefore took a different flight and paid the cost of this 
which was more expensive. 
Mr R made a claim for the difference between the two flights. Admiral said it couldnt 
cover the cost because the reason for the flight cancellation was not known. It paid 
Mr R £75 compensation for the service it provided. 
Mr R said the only way he could contact the flight provider was by telephoning them 
which was very expensive and wasnt affordable to him. 
He brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
uphold it. She didnt think the cost Mr R was claiming for was covered under his 
policy as the reason for the flight cancellation wasnt provided. She thought the £75 
compensation provided by Admiral for the poor service was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The flight provider didnt inform Mr R why the flight was cancelled. But the 
intermediary travel provider thought the reason may have been due to Covid-19.
If that is the case, then under Mr Rs policy theres a general exclusion on page 26 
Coronavirus which applies. Under this section, there is no cover for flight 
cancellation due to Covid-19.
I appreciate its been difficult for Mr R to communicate with the flight provider and to 
find out the reason for the flight being cancelled. However, in absence of this 
evidence and also because the intermediary has said its possible the flight was 
cancelled because of Covid-19, Im not persuaded there is cover for the cost of the 
flight under Mr Rs policy. I therefore dont think Admiral is acting out of line of the 
requirements of the policy terms and conditions in wanting to know the reason for the 
flight cancellation. There are also no other sections of the policy that apply to Mr Rs 
circumstances of the claim.
While there may be scope for Mr R to claim under his policy for delayed or missed 
departure, the reason for the flight cancellation still needs to be provided as evidence 
before the claim can be considered and it should be noted there are policy limits for 
the amount that can be claimed under this section.
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Admiral has acted within 
Mr Rs policy terms and conditions and hasnt treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably. 
In absence of the evidence requested, I dont think Admiral is able to fully consider 
Mr Rs claim. I also think £75 compensation in recognition for the poor service 
Admiral provided is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows that I dont 
require Admiral to do anything further. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman