DRN-2959813
The complaint
Mr B said Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave him loans that 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr B loans as follows:
Loan Loan amount Highest total 
repayment *Term Date taken Date repaid
1 £500.00 £216.00 6 months 08-05-2017 17-11-2017
2 £400.00 £185.60 6 months 11-12-2017 08-04-2018
3 £200.00 £212.16 6 months 21-02-2018 08-04-2018
4 £100.00 £43.20 6 months 25-04-2018 07-07-2018
5 £200.00 £129.60 6 months 16-05-2018 31-10-2018
6 £300.00 £163.43 6 months 23-08-2018 Outstanding
7 £300.00 £254.33 6 months 04-10-2018 Outstanding
8 £100.00 £285.58 6 months 11-10-2018 Sold
10-10-2019
9 £200.00 £297.90 6 months 10-11-2018 Outstanding
10 £100.00 £328.83 6 months 12-12-2018 13-11-2019
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Mr B complained to Lending Stream it said that all the loans were affordable for Mr B 
and didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr B brought his complaint to us and one of our 
adjudicators investigated the circumstances in which all these loans had been provided. 
After carefully reviewing all the available information and considering this complaint, our 
adjudicator thought that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair that Lending Stream 
had provided loans 15. But she said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 6 - 10 
to Mr B. Our adjudicator explained why she felt these loans should be upheld and she set 
out the steps she said Lending Stream should take to put things right for Mr B.  
Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of what our adjudicator had said and 
told us that it was willing to accept the outcome of our adjudicators finding. Lending Stream 
sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this information to 
Mr B. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this proposed settlement. So the complaint came to me to decide 
and I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive independently reviewed Mr Bs complaint afresh and Ive come to the same overall view 
as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
Lending Stream has agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges in relation to loans 6 
 10 and to amend Mr Bs credit file in the way our adjudicator recommended. So, as it has 
now agreed to do everything that wed expect a lender to do in these circumstances, 
I havent considered these loans further save to include them in the redress. Ive 
concentrated on the loans that our adjudicator didnt uphold.
Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for Mr B, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. I've taken into account the loan repayment amounts and what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at 
the time.
Looking at the repayments that Mr B needed to make on loans 1-4, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared  even 
where loans overlapped. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history at that stage with Lending Stream, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr B for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first four loans. 
I've taken into account that Mr B paid loan 1 a few weeks later than the due date and he 
incurred a default charge. But this seems to have been a one-off payment issue at the time 
and I dont think this was enough of a reason for Lending Stream not to lend further. And the 
fact that Mr B borrowed less each time over the course of taking out these loans didnt 
suggest that he was reliant on taking out new borrowing to cover the cost of repaying debt. 
In the event, Mr B seems to have managed the repayments on loans 2,3 and 4 without any 
evident signs of financial stress  these loans were all repaid early. 
So this is why Im planning to say I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans1 -4.  
To my mind, Loan 5 looked like it was a turning point for Mr B. Although this was still a 
relatively small loan compared to loans 1 and 2, nonetheless it was the first time he had 
increased the amount he was taking out after repaying previous loans and he was still 
paying for loan 4. By this time, Mr B had been borrowing from Lending Stream for a year and 
repaying Lending Stream loans more or less continuously without a break all that time. 
So I do think Lending Stream should have considered if it needed to look further into Mr Bs 
circumstances before agreeing this loan. To help me build a picture of Mr Bs financial 
situation around that time I've been able to look at a credit report Mr B sent us and also 
some bank statement information which covers the early part of 2018. If Mr B would like to 
send me any additional bank statements for the period covering April and May 2018 then 
I will be able to take this into account before making any final decision.
But, as things stand, after taking into account everything Mr B has sent us so far, I havent 
seen anything in the information available to me which shows Lending Stream would have 
decided not to agree this loan had it probed more deeply into Mr Bs financial situation. 
Whilst I can see that Mr B had been making use of high cost loans from other credit 
providers from time to time, from what Ive seen there wasnt anything that Id expect 
Lending Stream to be unduly concerned about if it had seen the same information as I have, 
bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their 
record and sometimes an impaired credit history. 
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Lending Stream shouldnt 
have provided loan 5 to Mr B. So I agree with our adjudicator about not upholding loan 5.
And, as things stand, I agree with the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint. 
Its in line with our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances, keeping in mind that Mr B has had the benefit of the money he borrowed. So 
I think Lending Stream should now do what it has agreed to do to put things right. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B has acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision but not commented further 
on what I've said.
Lending Stream has confirmed it will settle the complaint in the way I've set out in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Lending Stream for confirming that it agrees to refund interest and charges and make 
the necessary credit file amendments. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or 
comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly as a relationship existed between 
Mr B and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So Lending Stream should do the following in respect of loans 6 - 10: 
Lending Stream should buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Or if Lending Stream isnt able to buy back the debt, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr B  keeping in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions if he needs further time to pay.
E. The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for loans 6 to 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Bs credit file once they are paid  and meanwhile remove any 
adverse information showing on his credit record in relation to these loans.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman