DRN-3464218
The complaint
Mr S complains Interactive Investor Services Limited, The Share Centre at the time, (TSC) 
delayed his ISA transfer.
What happened
Mr S wanted to transfer his stocks and shares ISA from TSC to another ISA provider (the 
provider). Mr S has given us a timeline from the provider. This says Mr Ss valid transfer 
instruction was received by the provider on 28 July 2020.
TSC says it received the providers 28 July 2020 letter, requesting a valuation of Mr Ss ISA 
and details of its holdings, on 3 August 2020. TSC has told us its ISA transfers should take 
place within 30 days from receipt of the information request to completion of the transfer.
The providers letter said it would send confirmation of its acceptance of the transfer after it 
received the valuation, and that TSC should then transfer the cash balances to the account 
detailed in the letter (transfer arrangements for the stock would follow).
TSC sent the provider a valuation on 11 August 2020 by email, detailing the cash balance 
(over £50,000) and the stock held (valued at over £100,000). It gave the email address the 
provider should use to send its confirmation of acceptance of the transfer.
The providers timeline says it logged TSCs valuation on 13 August and carried out stock 
eligibility checks and then sent an enquiry to Mr S on 4 September. The providers timeline 
says it received Mr Ss response to its enquiry on 17 September.
Mr S has told us he didnt phone and email the provider and TSC every week from August or 
September because he trusted them to do what they said they would do, hed assumed this 
was happening in the background, he expected them to tell him if the timescales werent 
going to be met and he made allowances for the pandemic. Hes also told us a list of 
investments he wanted to buy after the transfer was put together by him in August and or 
September. He says, as time went on and nothing appeared to be happening, he got more 
and more concerned about his funds not being at the provider and accessible there.
Mr S chased the provider on 23 September and on 5 and 7 October. The provider sent its 
acceptance of the transfer to TSC on 7 October. TSC logged this the same day.
After that time, Mr S chased the provider on 9, 13, 16 and 22 October. On 23 October the 
provider said it would send an email to TSC. Its timeline says it chased TSC for an update. 
Mr S chased again on 27 and 28 October. He emailed TSC direct on 24 and 27 October. 
The provider chased TSC on 30 October and 11 and 12 November, according to its timeline.
On 12 November TSC acted, proposing trade and settlement dates of 16 and 18 November 
(the following Monday and Wednesday) - a further six days but including a weekend.
The transfer completed on 19 November. There were still further actions to take or that 
would arise in connection with untradable stock that wasnt being transferred at the time  
including a cash transfer delayed by a separate error by TSC for which it paid Mr S £50.
TSC has told us there were delays in making transfers due to the work volumes it was 
receiving (related to it being in a corporate reorganisation) and that the transfer might 
otherwise have been completed by mid-October (a month or so sooner than it was).
Mr S started to trade in connection with the transferred stock and funds on 15 December. He 
has explained that in the meantime he spent time researching whether the investments on 
the list hed put together in August and or September, which had since risen in value, had 
peaked or were still worth buying. He says he eventually decided they hadnt peaked and 
started his trades. He said he didnt buy investments earlier, with other funds that arrived 
with the provider earlier, because he wanted a good variety of shares (which the value from 
TSC would allow him to create).
Mr S has said he wouldve liked to reinvest like he did in mid-December much earlier, and 
wouldve got significantly better prices had he done so and he is still angry the transfer took 
so long and he missed out on the opportunity to get significantly more growth. He has said 
the reinvestments he made later, in January for example, are ones he felt it was his choice 
to retain until then, so he is not seeking compensation for delays relating to those trades. 
Mr S has pointed out he was dealing with execution-only investment services so there was 
no need to specify his investment plans in his correspondence with TSC or the provider (and 
so theres nothing there to detail the opportunities he was missing out on during the delays). 
He has said his chasing up of the transfer, and use of a stocks and shares ISA, is evidence 
of his intention to reinvest as he did. Hes also told us how in broad terms his investment 
rationale had come about and how he had formed his investment plan. 
Mr S has said that if TSC had told him the transfer wouldnt be happening until the end of 
November, he wouldve sold and reinvested his holdings at TSC using its dealing facilities, 
and then transferred the new shares to the provider rather than the old shares. But hes said, 
as far as he knew, the transfer was progressing nicely and he didnt want to trade ahead of 
the transfer because he didnt know if it would impact the transfer process. Hes also said 
that trading wouldve meant an updated valuation, restarting the process and he wanted to 
move as soon as possible so he could trade his investments. Hes said TSC wouldve been 
aware delaying the transfer could lead to an investment loss, so should accept the result of 
its failure to put in place means for funds to be transferred within the required timescale.
As well as compensation for investment losses, when he brought us his complaint Mr S said 
he wanted compensation for hours hed spent on the phone and sending emails chasing up 
the transfer.
Our investigator thought TSCs actions delayed the transfer by 12 days  and recommended 
TSC pay Mr S £100 for the inconvenience he was bound to have experienced given that his 
many chasers to the provider showed he wanted the transfer completed in a timely manner. 
But our investigator didnt think TSC should compensate Mr S for lost growth, because the 
investigator thought Mr S couldve still traded while the transfer was ongoing - and any 
delays in the transfer hadnt prevented Mr S from doing this.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he hadnt been given a valid 
reason for his loss of growth not being covered  and he told us someone had to be 
responsible for the three-month delay in the transfer.
TSC didnt comment on the investigators findings except to indicate that on the basis that 
Mr S suffered a delay of 12 days, as specified by the investigator, it wouldve agreed to the 
investigators suggested redress.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. My conclusions, like our investigators, are 
firstly that TSC did delay the transfer and should compensate Mr S for the inconvenience it 
caused him as a result and secondly that I dont agree that TSC should compensate Mr S for 
loss of investment growth. Ive explained my reasoning below.
The governments ISA guide says, for ISAs like Mr Ss with TSC, transfers should take no 
longer than 30 days. Its guidance for ISA managers says, for these sorts of ISAs, an ISAs 
terms and conditions may allow the ISA manager whatever reasonable period it requires for 
practical implementation of transfer requests  but this must not exceed 30 days. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Ive taken into account 
this guidance while also considering whether and the extent to which TSC caused delays 
that were unnecessary, notwithstanding the timescales in the guidance.
Mr S has pointed out the provisions in the guidance refer to transfers taking no longer than 
30 days  and not to each company getting 30 days. I agree, but still I dont think this means 
I should hold TSC responsible for the results of delays for which another party and not TSC 
was responsible.
The transfer completed on 19 November (there was later a further delay in transferring a 
cash sum  thats separate and Ive not considered that here). Our investigator thought TSC 
shouldve completed it within 30 days of receiving the providers acceptance on 7 October  
and that TSC had delayed the transfer by 12 days. But from what TSC itself has told us, it 
shouldve completed it within 30 days of the information request  and it says it received the 
providers letter asking for transfer information on 3 August. On that basis, the transfer 
completed around two and a half months late  although that doesnt mean TSC was 
responsible for all the delays. But TSC has also told us that had it not been for delays arising 
from its high work volumes the transfer couldve completed in mid-October - more than a 
month earlier. Ive taken all this into account.
If sent first class on the day it was dated, the providers information request would have 
ordinarily arrived a few business days earlier than TSC has said it received it. But I dont 
think establishing how TSC only received it later would affect the outcome overall, given the 
rest of the timeline (and I note that postal delays were not unheard of during the pandemic).
TSC issued the valuation eight days after receiving the request, including a weekend. I dont 
think the time TSC took over this was in itself unreasonable or made the transfer unlikely to 
be completed in good time, taking into account what else needed to be done by TSC and the 
provider. In saying this, I note that for cash ISAs there are provisions allowing five business 
days to send information, and cash ISA transfers are generally simpler than those of stocks.
Having sent the valuation on 11 August, TSC was waiting for the providers instruction which 
it did not receive until 7 October. With this and what Ive said above in mind, and although 
the transfer was clearly delayed during that period, I dont consider TSC was responsible for 
any inconvenience caused to Mr S by his having to chase up the transfer in that time  
because at that point it was not responsible for causing the delay.
By way of background, I note that after the provider received TSCs valuation around a 
month and a half passed while it carried out checks, sent Mr S a query and received his 
reply (he replied within two weeks). The provider then didnt send its acceptance to TSC until three weeks after that. Whether the provider had good reason for all this is not something I 
consider here as Im looking only at TSCs part in things. So here I just note how much time 
had already passed by the time the provider sent its query to Mr S and the time that had 
passed when on 7 October the provider sent TSC its acceptance.
But after that time TSC did delay the transfer further. I note that the time during October and 
November TSC took to act wouldve taken the transfer beyond 30 days on its own (and TSC 
had already taken some days to send its valuation earlier in the process). I think TSC took 
too long at this point  and I think it was right to say that the transfer couldve completed 
sooner had it not been for the delay at this point.
I note that during this time Mr S chased for progress, having no doubt also checked his TSC 
account for signs of progress. Hes referred to spending hours overall on sending emails and 
on the phone during the process (which will include the period before TSC was in a position 
to act, as well in the later period). Hes given us more details of his emails than his phone 
calls but, whether by phone or email, it was reasonable for Mr S to chase TSC (directly or via 
the provider) during October and November until the transfer was completed  and he would 
not have needed to had TSC not started delaying things at that point. So TSC in my view 
was responsible for putting Mr S to inconvenience in this way during that period. 
In terms of the emails sent during that period, I note details Mr S has given of eight chasers, 
mostly to the provider but also to TSC. But his first was when TSC had only just received the 
acceptance, so I wouldnt have expected TSC to have already acted on it at that point.
After the transfer completed, Mr S did further research before beginning to reinvest and I 
accept what he says about this and what he says about how, had it completed earlier or had 
he known it would take as long as it did, he wouldve been able to invest earlier with the new 
provider or wouldve done so within TSC rather than waiting. Ive carefully considered his 
claim for compensation for lost growth with all this in mind.
The delays in the transfer caused by TSC in the event may have meant Mr S didnt take up 
the investment positions he planned to take, and missed out on gains or losses he mightve 
made on those compared to what he instead retained with TSC. So I can understand why he 
is frustrated and is seeking compensation for lost growth. But there was a way Mr S couldve 
secured exposure to his preferred assets and received the resulting losses or gains. He 
couldve done so by making investments and taking those positions while still with TSC. TSC 
has said Mr S couldve traded on his account in the run up to the transfer. He doesnt dispute 
that he couldve reinvested and pursued his investment agenda in this way  indeed, hes 
said he wouldve done so if hed realised the transfer would take as long as it did.
But given this option was always open to Mr S, on balance I dont think TSC is responsible 
for Mr S missing out on returns on the investments he mightve made but didnt, and instead 
receiving the returns he did receive on the investments he in the event chose to retain.
I note what Mr S has said about not knowing how trading would impact the transfer process 
or how it wouldve delayed the transfer. I dont know if it wouldve delayed the transfer like he 
says or not. But even if it wouldve done and his decision not to reinvest with TSC was to 
avoid further delaying the transfer, Im not persuaded this would make it fair and reasonable 
to award him now the returns on investments he could still have made but did not make.
In light of all Ive said above, I conclude that failings by TSC did inconvenience Mr S. TSCs 
own reckoning of the delay it caused appears longer than that suggested by our investigator. 
That doesnt necessarily mean TSC caused Mr S more inconvenience. But bearing in mind 
what Ive said about the chasers Mr S had to send and how TSCs delays contributed to his 
plans being delayed, I think it would be fair for TSC to pay Mr S £200 for the inconvenience its delays to the transfer caused him.
I appreciate my conclusion may disappoint Mr S. Im grateful to him for his prompt responses 
to our enquiries and for his patience. I thank him and TSC for their assistance throughout.
Putting things right
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr S £200 for the inconvenience it caused 
him arising from the matters Ive considered in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr S redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman