DRN-1820394
The complaint
Ms T complains about Paypal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA and their decision to settle a dispute 
in favour of the other party.
What happened
In mid May 2019, Ms T sold a bag to a buyer, using her PayPal account, for £320. At the end 
of May, the buyer raised a transaction dispute stating the bag was significantly not as 
described.
PayPal then contacted Ms T on three separate occasions between 30 May and 6 June, 
asking her to log into her account and provide further information regarding the dispute to aid 
their investigation. They gave Ms T until 9 June to provide this information, explaining that if 
they didnt receive a response the case would be closed in the buyers favour. 
Ms T didnt provide a response as she was on holiday at the time. As PayPal didnt receive a 
response, the found in the buyers favour and reimbursed the buyer the £320 out of Ms Ts 
account. 
Ms T was unhappy with this decision, so she raised a complaint. She explained she was on 
holiday so unable to provide the information in the timescale PayPal set. She also said she 
felt PayPal already had the information they needed and didnt think it was fair for the buyer 
to be refunded the amount they paid and be able to keep the bag that was sold.
PayPal didnt agree. They thought theyd acted with the terms and conditions of the account 
when closing the dispute in the buyers favour as Ms T didnt respond to their requests for 
information. They also explained they couldnt guarantee the return of the bag in those 
situations. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Ms T was unhappy with 
this, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought PayPal had 
acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions as Ms T hadnt responded to their 
requests for information. She said that although Ms T was on holiday, shed seen evidence 
to show Ms T had logged into her account during the period of time PayPal were asking her 
for information. So, she thought Ms T had the opportunity to respond. She also thought it 
was made clear that PayPal wouldnt be able to guarantee the return of the bag. So, she 
didnt think PayPal needed to do anything further.
Ms T didnt agree with this. She maintained she felt it was unfair for her to be left out of 
pocket and without the bag shed sold. She explained how the stress of this situation had 
impacted her wellbeing. As Ms T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Ms T. Ive no doubt that Ms T 
has been left feeling aggrieved at being without both the bag she sold and the £320 she 
received for it. I can understand why she feels this situation is unfair and how frustrated she 
must be. Ive seen a review left by the buyer that contradicts the dispute they raised and I 
can understand why this would annoy Ms T and lead her to question the reasoning behind 
the dispute. But, its not my role to decide whether the buyers dispute was genuine or 
fraudulent. My role is to look at the service PayPal provided and to decide whether they 
acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. And unfortunately, on this occasion I 
think that they have.
Im aware that the buyer had the bag for a period of time before they raised the dispute and I 
can understand why this would cause concern for Ms T. But Im not able to speculate on why 
it took so long for the dispute to be raised.
Once the dispute had been raised, Ive seen PayPal contacted Ms T on three separate 
occasions explaining they needed her to sign into her account and provide further 
information to assist the investigation. In these e-mails, it explained that if no response was 
received by 9 June, the dispute would be closed in the buyers favour. They also explained 
that if the case was closed in the buyers favour, they were unable to guarantee that the 
disputed item would be returned. So, I think PayPal made it reasonably clear to Ms T that 
they needed a response and what would happen if one wasnt received.
But Ive considered Ms Ts argument that she was on holiday at the time so she was unable 
to provide the information in the timeframe PayPal set. PayPal have provided me with Ms Ts 
account login information. This shows that Ms T accessed her account on 30 May as well as 
making attempts on 2, 3 and 4 June. Ive also seen that on 5 June, she reset her password 
and then logged into her account immediately afterwards. 
As Ms T accessed her account whilst she was on holiday, I think its reasonable to assume 
Ms T had an opportunity to read and respond to PayPals requests for information. Even 
though Ms T believed PayPal was already aware of her take on the situation, I think PayPal 
made it clear there was an additional process for Ms T to follow. Unfortunately, Ms T failed to 
follow this process. 
So, although I do appreciate why Ms T feels as though shes been left out of pocket and 
sympathise that shes left without the bag she sold, I dont think its fair for me to say this is 
because of the failings of PayPal. I think they gave Ms T enough time to respond to their 
request for information and made it clear the consequences if a response wasnt received. 
Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlines above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & 
Cie, SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman