DRN-2952448
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Go Car Credit Limited (Go Car Credit).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Miss C has been represented by her mother throughout this process but for ease, and 
because Miss C is named on the finance agreement, I will only refer to her in this decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Go Car Credit, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Go Car Credit, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was 
around eight years old and had already completed about 43,763 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to show some signs of wear and tear, but I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to experience faults with the car from the onset.
Miss C had the right to reject the car without allowing the business to complete repairs if, as 
is the case here, the car had a fault that was most likely present at the point of supply and if 
Miss C reported it in the first 30 days. But as Miss C authorised repairs to the car on 3 
December 2019 I think she waived that right.
The relevant legislation explains that if a repair on a fault, that was present when the car was 
supplied, fails, the business should then allow the consumer to reject the car.
Go Car Credit have relied on the fact that when Miss C returned the car to them on 28 
January 2020 she authorised a repair. But I think if Miss C had known the fault was due to a 
failed repair on the O2 sensors she would have been likely to insist on her right to reject the 
vehicle. 
I say that because the dealerships contact notes show she had asked the business to allow 
her to reject the car the day before and the notes show she understood she had a right to 
reject if the previous repair had proven unsuccessful. And, when the car was repaired again, 
and Miss C found out the initial repair had failed the contact notes show she asked again to 
reject the vehicle.
The car has subsequently been repossessed and sold and Go Car Credit want Miss C to 
pay the balance but as I think they should have allowed Miss C to reject the car Ive thought 
about how to put things right for Miss C.
Putting things right
Had I asked Go Car Credit to allow a rejection before the car was repossessed I would have 
asked them to end the finance agreement and to collect the car. There would have been no 
balance on the agreement for Miss C to pay so I dont think it would now be fair to hold   
Miss C accountable for any balance. 
The relevant legislation allows Go Car Credit to retain some of the finance paid to 
compensate them for the use the consumer has had from the car. As Miss C has completed 
more than average mileage I think it would be fair for Go Car Credit to retain all the finance 
agreements that were paid up to the 22 July 2020 when Miss C returned the car to the 
dealership and after which she had no use of the vehicle. They should refund any finance 
instalments may have been paid after 22 July 2020 and they should add interest to that 
refund as Miss C will have been deprived of that money.
Miss C has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership and shes had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved much earlier. In those circumstances I think Go Car Credit should pay her 
£200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Go Car Credit Limited to:
If payments havent been made to cover the period up to 22 July 2020, Go Car Credit 
can to collect those instalments, but the account balance should then be zeroed;
refund any finance instalments that may have been paid since Miss C returned the 
car to the dealership on 22 July 2020 as Miss C didnt have use of the car after that. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Miss C £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Cs credit file regarding this 
issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman