DRN-1916055
 
The complaint
Miss F believes Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan shed 
applied for.
What happened
Miss F applied for a £1,500 loan with Everyday Lending, to be repaid over 24 months at an 
interest rate of 199.6%. This was approved and the loan started in March 2017, with 
repayments of £163.81 a month. The loan was repaid in April 2019.
Miss F has complained that Everyday Lending didnt act responsibly when approving the 
loan, because she couldnt afford the monthly repayments. Shes also unhappy that the 
interest rate they charged was too high.
Our investigator thought Everyday Lending had acted responsibly. She said they did a credit 
check, which showed Miss Fs current and previous financial history, and they also reviewed 
three months bank statements. The investigator didnt think there was anything on the credit 
report or bank statements that shouldve given Everyday Lending any cause for concern. 
And there was nothing that indicated Miss F couldnt afford the loan repayments. So she 
didnt think Everyday Lending had done anything wrong.
The investigator also said its not for us to tell a financial business what interest rates they 
can or cant charge. Be we look to see if the interest rate charged was made clear, and that 
it was applied fairly. Because the interest rate was made clear in the paperwork Miss F 
received and agreed to, and this was the interest rate she was charged, the investigator 
didnt think Everyday Lending needed to do anything more.
Miss F didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said the information Everyday Lending relied 
on was inaccurate, and she had other loans she was paying for at the time. Shes said she 
can provide bank statements for April and May 2017, which will show the loan was 
unaffordable. But these have had to be ordered from her bank and will take some time to 
come through by post. Shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Miss F applied for the loan online, and she says that Everyday Lending declined this. Then 
they asked her to go into the office where the loan was approved. She thinks that this initial 
decline shows she shouldnt have been lent the money.
Everyday Lending has said the loan application was originally only provisionally approved 
online, and Miss F was asked to go into the office with additional documentation. Theyve 
explained this is usual practice. The loan was then approved after reviewing Miss Fs bank 
statements, and after additional checks were done, to show it was affordable.
The credit report Everyday Lending carried out shows that Miss F had total outstanding 
balances of £790 on three credit cards, and that she had a short-term loan where the last 
payment was due in February 2017. The report also showed that Miss F hadnt missed any 
payments in the previous two years.
The bank statements Miss F provided confirmed a monthly income of £1,905 made up of 
monthly salary and weekly tax credits. They also confirmed rent and other bills totalling £895 
per month. There were three credit cards to which Miss F paid an average of £68 per month 
in total. There was also a loan payment showing on these statements, but the hand-written 
notes on the statements say this finished in February 2017. This is supported by the 
information on the credit report. Based on the bank statements, Miss F had the disposable 
income to support the new loan repayments.
Everyday Lendings system notes show they also confirmed Miss Fs employment. They also 
show they questioned Miss F about returned direct debits for her TV package and mobile 
phone. Miss F explained shed asked for the direct debits to go out between the 25th and 1st 
of each month, to tie in with her salary, but they kept being taken on the wrong dates. 
Ive also seen the loan agreement that Miss F signed on 21 March 2017. This very clearly 
states the loan amount, the term, the repayments, the total amount that would be repaid, and 
the interest rate of 199.6%. This information wasnt in a print that was so small it couldnt be 
easily read, nor was it hidden so it could be easily missed. It was at the top of the 
agreement under the heading Key Financial Information. So Miss F wouldve been aware of 
the terms of the loan she was agreeing to, and by signing the agreement she accepted those 
terms. Including the interest rate.
As the investigator said, its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell financial 
businesses what they can and cant charge for lending. We would expect the information to 
be clearly stated, and for the customer to have had this before they agreed to the loan. And 
in this instance, this was the case. So I dont think Everyday Lending did anything wrong by 
charging the interest rate they did.
Miss F has said she can provide bank statements that will show additional loans she was 
responsible for paying. I dont doubt that this is the case. But these loans arent showing on 
the bank statements Miss F provided to Everyday Lending. And theyre not showing on the 
credit report. And Miss F didnt declare them during the application process. 
Everyday Lending took into consideration everything from the credit check, the bank 
statements they were provided with, and the information provided by Miss F when they 
approved the loan. Because these showed the loan was affordable to Miss F, and there was 
nothing to indicate that Miss F was suffering any financial difficulties, it was reasonable that 
Everyday Lending relied upon the information they had at the time. I think the checks they carried out were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances, and I dont think they 
needed to do any more checks before the loan was approved.
So, while I appreciate Miss F can provide additional bank statements for the period 
immediately after the loan was approved, Im satisfied that I can reach a fair decision without 
these. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree that Everyday Lending didnt act 
irresponsibly when they approved the loan for Miss F. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24July2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman