DRN-4278149
The complaint
Mr H complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a 
claim under his furniture warranty. 
Where I refer to Acasta, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In early 2020, Mr H purchased two leather sofas from a furniture store Ill refer to as F. He 
opted to take out a five-year warranty and he says F advised him that it would cover all 
eventualities.  
In the summer of 2021, Mr H reported a claim to Acasta for staining to one of the footrests. 
He says that after a long battle, Acasta eventually replaced the cover in late 2022.
In the summer of 2022, Mr H noticed leather peeling from one of the other footrests, so he 
made a further claim on his warranty. Acasta arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa 
who produced a report. This concluded that the peeling was caused by a structural issue 
and that there was a build-up of outward sources. Based on this advice, Acasta declined 
the claim as it said Mr Hs warranty didnt cover this type of damage. 
Mr H contacted F to see if the damage would be covered under the sofas guarantee. F 
initially declined as leather was only covered for two years, and the sofa was now 
approximately 30 months old. Mr H complained to the Furniture Ombudsman and F 
subsequently agreed to obtain a technicians report provided Mr H pay for it. This report 
concluded that the peeling was caused by external contamination, most likely from bodily 
oils or cream/suncream and that it has built up on the covers over time causing the colour 
to peel. Based on this report, F said its not a manufacturing issue, so they were unable to 
assist. 
Mr H is unhappy that neither Acasta nor F will take responsibility for the damage to his sofa. 
He doesnt agree its a result of wear and tear caused gradually over a period of time, given 
that the sofa was only just over two years old when the damage occurred. He says hes 
taken good care of the sofas, using the care kit supplied by F regularly, which is reflected in 
the technicians report that confirms both the condition and the maintenance of the sofa has 
been excellent. He raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied Acasta had declined the 
claim in accordance with the warrantys terms and conditions and hadnt acted unfairly 
based on the expert evidence available. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H is unhappy with both Acasta and F. To clarify, Im only looking into the 
complaint about Acasta and its decision to decline Mr Hs claim under the warranty. Im not 
looking into the actions of F  which I understand are being considered by the Furniture 
Ombudsman.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs warranty set out the cover as follows:
Where shown on your Certificate, Stains onleather furniturewhich are sudden 
and accidental resulting from:
Food and beverages.
Ink, paint and dye.
Human and pet bodily fluids. 
Cosmetics, soap and shampoo.
Wax and wax polish.
Glue and superglue.
Dye transfer from clothing and newspaper print.
Acids, bleaches, caustic and corrosive solutions and substances.
Where shown on your Certificate, Structural defects toleather furniturefollowing 
the expiry of the suppliers warranty caused by:
Defects to frames caused by breakage or becoming warped.
Defects of mechanical, electric recliners and components.
Bending and breakage of metal components.
Broken zips, castors, and buttons.
Separation of seams and stitching.
Lifting or peeling of the hide on leather furniture.
Loss of resilience to foam and fibre interiors.
Where shown on your Certificate, Accidental Damage onleather furniturecaused 
by: 
Rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures. 
Accidental Damage includes damage caused by pets. Damage caused by pets (that 
is not extensive) is limited to three (3) claims during the period of insurance.
According to Mr Hs certificate, the level of cover hes taken out is for stains and accidental 
damage - so its only these two sections above that apply to him. He doesnt have the 
structural defects cover listed on his certificate. 
The terms and conditions go on to list what is not covered, and Ive listed the relevant 
exclusions below:
We will not pay the claim costs arising from:
Any damagecausedby any other cause not specifically mentioned under 
what is covered.
Stains & damage that is consistent with wear and tear 
Stains & damage or anything that happens gradually including dye transfer.
Looking at the technicians report obtained by Acasta, I can see the experts opinion is that 
this is a structural defect. This is consistent with the warranty terms and conditions which 
lists peeling leather under the structural defects section of cover. And as Mr H doesnt have 
this section on his warranty, Acasta declined the claim. I can understand why Acasta has made this decision  as peeling leather isnt a sudden 
stain or accidental damage such as described in the terms.
The second technicians report, obtained by Mr H and F, gives an opinion on why the peeling 
has occurred  something that Acastas technician hasnt commented on. They say its likely 
caused from bodily oils or creams built up over time. This could indicate that it is in fact a 
stain which has caused the peeling. But even if Acasta were to consider the claim under the 
section of cover for stains, it still wouldnt satisfy the warrantys terms because bodily oils 
and creams arent a listed stain. It also isnt a sudden stain, but something the technician 
believes has built up gradually. 
I do understand why Mr H is dissatisfied. His sofa was less than three years old when the 
leather started to peel  which seems highly unusual given how well hes maintained it. Im 
not saying the sofa itself isnt defective  it may very well be  but rather, that his claim isnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of his warranty based on the level of cover he has in 
place. Had he benefited from the structural defects section of cover, I mightve reached a 
different outcome. 
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope my explanation goes 
some way to helping him understand how Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman