DRN-1608591
The complaint 
Mr Bs complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC and its administration of his mortgage. 
Barclays sent correspondence and cheque books showing his wifes maiden name despite 
being notified of the change of name in 2017 and her death. It paid £450 compensation but 
repeated the error; it paid another £300 compensation. Mr B was also unhappy that he 
hadnt received a new cheque book or debit card and wants matters put right.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that it mustve been distressing for Mr B for the errors to have been 
made in the first place, let alone repeated. But Barclays has sent evidence showing 
that the records have been updated and the error shouldnt happen again in the 
future. While the update shouldve happened earlier, Im satisfied that it has now 
happened.
Data protection issues are a matter for the Information Commissioners Office, but 
from what Ive seen, there doesnt appear to be a breach as the information was sent 
to Mr Bs home. 
Barclays has explained how Mr B can request a new debit card and cheque book, 
and apologised for its actions in sending cheque books in joint names, one of which 
was unreadable. This is fair and reasonable.
Mr B has received £750 compensation for the trouble and upset hes suffered due to 
the several errors made by Barclays. While money cant truly compensate for trouble 
and upset, or change what has happened, I think that this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances. I have borne in mind that Mr Bs loss was 
relatively recent, but it isnt my role to punish businesses for making mistakes.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision before 30 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman