DRN-1054289
The complaint
Ms W complains that Bank of Scotland plc has breached her personal data as it didn't 
ensure it packaged information it was sending her correctly. As a result, the package was 
torn and her personal information available to third parties.
What happened
As a result of other concerns Ms W had raised with the bank, she made a subject access 
request. The bank processed her request and posted the information to her using a courier 
service. When her information arrived, the bag containing it was ripped across the top and 
Ms W said some pages were torn in the corner. 
Unhappy with how her personal data had been handled by the bank, she complained.  The 
Bank of Scotland didn't uphold her complaint. It said responsibility for safe delivery of her 
post lay with the courier and not it. Ms W didn't agree that was a fair outcome and so asked 
us to look into her complaint. Our investigator concluded Bank of Scotland hadn't done 
anything wrong and likewise agreed responsibility lay with the courier. 
Ms W has asked for the matter to be referred for a final decision. During the course of her 
complaint she has said:
The bank is responsible for how her data was packaged, not the courier. She 
considers the information should have been placed in a stronger bag or a box.
She values her personal data at £100,000 and believes she is entitled to this as 
compensation. 
The ICO has already upheld her complaint and this office ought to take that into 
account. 
GDPR 2018 sets out what requirements and standards the bank should adhere to 
and it hasn't. 
 
Ms W's complaint was referred to me for a final decision. Via the investigator, I asked for a 
copy of the ICO's findings. Ms W provided us with a copy checklist that the ICO sent to Bank 
of Scotland. But as the findings weren't enclosed, I asked Ms W for these again. I haven't 
had a reply to that request and I so assume she has nothing further to add. It's now 
appropriate for the final stage of this complaint to be completed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure Ms W and Bank of Scotland that although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments made, I have read and considered everything 
provided in its entirety. I can see from Ms W's submissions that this issue is very important to her and rightly so. The 
safety and security of personal data is enshrined in the laws Ms W has referred to. But I can 
only uphold Ms W's complaint if I find that Bank of Scotland has done something wrong. 
I do accept Ms W's point that the bank is responsible for how her personal data was 
packaged. But I don't think it follows the bank is responsible for the bag her data was 
contained in, being ripped. I have looked at the photograph Ms W has provided. In my 
experience the type of bag provided by the courier is strong and not easily ripped by 
accident. And had the rip been caused accidentally - say by being in close proximity to other 
packages - I would expect to see evidence of that; these types of bags usually stretch a 
great deal before they actually tear. There is no indication from the picture that is what 
happened here. 
I think it far more likely that the bag was opened deliberately. I say this because the rip is in 
a relatively straight line across the top of the package and the tear, running from the side to 
the middle, starts as a very neat and straight tear, more akin to a tool being used to open the 
bag, rather than an accidental tear. But if I am wrong about that, and it was accidental, then 
the package must have come into contact with a very jagged or sharp object to produce 
such a neat tear. And in those circumstances, and understanding the point Ms W makes 
about a stronger bag or box, a different type of package would make very little difference to 
that. 
I have considered that Ms W said the ICO has upheld a complaint about this matter. I did 
ask for evidence of this, as Ms W is right that would be something for me to take account of. 
But the information provided to me was a checklist for the bank to confirm it has complied 
with the ICO guidelines when considering a complaint. That is very different from the 
ICO finding that the bank had caused a data breach when sending Ms W's subject access 
request. I don't find the information provided by Ms W to be persuasive evidence the 
ICO upheld a complaint that Bank of Scotland breached her data.  
Having considered the matter very carefully, and realising this will come as a disappointment 
to Ms W, I don't find the Bank of Scotland has done anything wrong. I don't find that Ms W's 
personal data became accessibly to third parties as a result of inadequate packing. Rather, I 
find it more likely the packaging was accessed deliberately or was torn as a result of what it 
was being transported with, neither of which would be the bank's responsibility - once the 
package left it, it was the courier's responsibility to ensure safe delivery.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman