DRN-2730849
The complaint
Mr J complains that Brunel Professions Limited didnt arrange a professional indemnity 
insurance policy, or run-off cover, when an existing policy it had arranged was coming to its 
expiry date.
What happened
Mr J carried out professional services and had professional indemnity insurance for several 
years arranged by Brunel. His policy was due to expire in April 2020 and arrangements for a 
new policy began in February 2020. Brunel made enquiries with several insurers because 
the current insurer (in February 2020) refused to offer renewal terms. No insurers were 
willing to offer insurance terms on the risks presented on Mr Js behalf, other than one which 
offered to cover a percentage. This required another insurer to agree to cover the remainder, 
but no other insurer was so inclined.
There was regular contact between Mr J and Brunel in which Brunel explained the difficulties 
in obtaining terms of cover and recommended he enquire with other insurance brokers. And 
around 5 days before cover expired, Brunel explained to Mr J that he could also enquire with 
a scheme that dealt specifically with the professional services he offered where obtaining 
insurance was problematic. Brunel gave the name of the insurance broker that operated in 
this space. Ultimately, Brunel didnt secure a new policy for Mr J and his insurance policy 
expired in April 2020.
Mr J was extremely unhappy and raised several issues of complaint, the main ones being:
- Poor communication from Brunel in that he had to continually chase Brunel and 
receiving an email from Brunel expressing glee at the contents of a final response 
letter sent by Brunel.
- Brunel failed in its duty to him by not securing insurance terms, which he says other 
brokers said a skilled broker should be able to obtain.
- Failing to secure, and ignoring his request for run-off cover, which he subsequently 
obtained with ease. 
- As a result of Brunel his business collapsed so he suffered a financial loss as hed 
negotiated the sale of the business for circa £300,000.
One of our investigators concluded that Brunel had acted reasonably in the efforts made to 
obtain new insurance. He said Brunel contacted several insurers who refused to offer terms, 
and this was not Brunels responsibility. Brunel had advised Mr J of the difficulties and gave 
him details of other brokers he could try, including a relevant scheme for Mr Js profession. 
And he said this was all before the expiry of the policy. He noted that Mr J was able to obtain 
an insurance policy from the broker operating in this space that Brunel had referred him to.
The investigator, in the main, didnt think Brunel had communicated poorly but did 
acknowledge the internal email Mr J received, which Mr J described as glee, would have 
been upsetting. Brunel accepted it was sent in error and accepted feedback needed to be 
given. But the investigator didnt accept that this took away from the work Brunel did to try 
and obtain a policy. The investigator didnt criticise the fact that Brunel had followed a 
complaints procedure as Mr J had raised dissatisfaction.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion, a summary of which is as follows:
- The fact he was able to organise insurance policies after Brunels failure to, defeats 
the argument that it was not possible to organise any form of insurance.
- He wasnt permitted to speak with a manager and was effectively stonewalled.
- Brunel refused to consider providing run-off insurance, and he got this in one phone 
call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles require Brunel, among other things to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
- pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did Brunel act with due skill
The main point here is that Brunel couldnt secure an insurer willing to offer Mr J terms of 
insurance. Brunel, as an insurance broker, doesnt provide terms of insurance itself rather it 
makes enquiries with insurance companies to see if the insurer is willing to offer terms of 
insurance to the proposed policyholder, here thats Mr J.
It's quite usual to see insurance brokers commence renewal processes four to six weeks 
before a policy expires, and thats what happened here. From the outset Brunel advised Mr J 
that renewal was likely to be difficult but explained it might be helpful if Mr J completed a 
pitch. And it set out a detailed overview of what Mr J should address. Mr J completed and 
returned documents, including a covering letter, and Brunel started its search for an insurer. 
The current insurer refused to offer terms and subsequent refusals came in from other 
insurers. Brunel asked some of these insurers to reconsider their decision and it discussed 
the level of cover with Mr J. Some tweaks were made (e.g. £5mil to £3mil) but still no 
insurers were willing to make a complete offer.
By mid-March Brunel told Mr J he may want to approach other brokers and by 20 March 
Brunel suggested Mr J give more information relevant to his work and give more 
reassurance to insurers. Indeed, a reduction in cover to £1mil was proffered but still no 
insurer was willing to agree to offer insurance terms. In early April Brunel was still contacting 
insurers asking for reconsideration but without success. And around the second week in 
April, but before policy expiry, run-off cover was also refused. The best apparent terms on 
offer from one insurer was to cover 50% of the risk presented but that required a second 
insurer for the other half. As no insurer was willing this fell through too. Brunel explained the difficulties and gave details of the scheme that dealt specifically with the professional 
services Mr J offered where obtaining insurance was problematic. And it was through a 
broker operating this scheme that Mr J was able to secure some form of cover.
Having thought carefully about the events during the period up to the policy expiry date Im 
satisfied Brunel carried out significant searches in trying to obtain insurance cover for Mr J. It 
gave him relevant advice in trying to ensure the best profile of his needs were presented to 
insurers and worked with him in reducing limits of cover in an attempt to procure terms. It 
contacted insurers on more than one occasion to ask for some terms to be offered but the 
market wouldnt provide such terms. Given the difficulty in obtaining cover Brunel advised 
Mr J that he should contact other insurance brokers and referred him to the specific risk pool 
scheme that might be able to offer some terms. Given the nature of the specific risk pool its 
not surprising they were able to offer some cover  thats what they specialise in. The 
relevant standards at the time stated:
[We] recognise[s] that circumstances may arise where a Firm may be unable to obtain PI 
insurance and therefore render(s) it unable to comply with the [Our] Insurance 
Requirements. This may be as a result of a poor claims record, the type of business being 
carried out or other risk factors and may occur through no direct fault of the Firm. 
Where this happens the [scheme] is a facility to which a Firm may apply to enable it to 
comply to a more limited degree with the [Our] Insurance Requirements whilst the Firm takes 
action to rectify the issues that have led to it being declined PI insurance. 
Failure to explore the [scheme] route in these circumstances will put the Firm in breach of 
[Our] Rules of Conduct and may lead to disciplinary action by [Us].  
It seems to me that Brunels steer towards this scheme was prudent in the circumstances 
and, indeed, if Mr J had not approached the scheme, he could have been at a more 
significant detriment than by simply not having insurance. I am satisfied that on the balance 
of probabilities Brunel acted with due skill, care and diligence in trying to arrange insurance 
cover for Mr J.
And this also feeds into the requirement to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. Brunel explained from the outset that renewal would be difficult in the 
prevailing market and the impact of the pandemic. It managed expectations and gave Mr J 
advice to go to other brokers given the difficulties it was having in securing an offer of 
insurance. In my view the wrong thing to do would have been for Brunel to mislead Mr J that 
renewal wouldnt be an issue and withhold advice to seek out other brokers knowing it was 
struggling to obtain an offer. To the contrary, I find Brunel was open and transparent about 
this. Had Brunel not referred Mr J to the specific scheme he could have found himself in 
other difficulties. So, taking all this into account Im satisfied Brunel paid due regard to Mr Js 
interests and his professional position and treated him fairly with its openness about the 
difficulties and other avenues he should explore.
Communication
Brunels duty here is to pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. From 
everything Ive seen during the renewal process there was regular contact between Brunel 
and Mr J. He may have instigated some or much of it, but he had a lot at stake, and I 
understand why hed be keen for regular updates. Brunel replied promptly, gave an overview 
of any difficulties and what other steps could be taken to try and make the risk more 
attractive to insurers. Im satisfied it communicated promptly, and in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading. However, an email sent in June, which clearly wasnt supposed to be sent to Mr J, was 
understandably upsetting for him to see. In short, the email was congratulatory of the final 
response letter drafted by a colleague and went on to be more benign about some process 
matters. While this was an error by Brunel, and unsavoury to include Mr J on the circulation, 
it had nothing to do with the renewal service Brunel provided and so Im not making any 
direction or award for this error.
I can appreciate that the lack of insurance cover meant Mr J wasnt able to fulfil plans he had 
to retire and sell his business. And hed been claim free for a long career in providing the 
professional services he was qualified to do. This has seemingly been an awful time for Mr J 
but having considered everything carefully I dont find that Brunel is responsible for the 
events that transpired for the reasons explained.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman