DRN-3153742
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the offshore discretionary trust she invested in with TenetConnect 
Services Limited (TCS) has significantly higher charges than similar funds and are more 
complex.
What happened
In March 2012, Mrs S sought advice from TCS regarding investing around £150,000 to be
held in a discretionary trust. Her primary objective was to avoid any tax liabilities for the
trustees, so the beneficiaries - her son and grandchildren, would obtain maximum benefit
without any tax penalties for the trustees or the beneficiaries.
The trust was set up in August 2012 with the trustees also as the beneficiaries and they
would later decide who to assign the benefit of the trust to. The policy allowed for annual
withdrawals of up to 10% of the value of the trust, should this be required. Mrs S deferred
this every year until August 2016. Each year, between August 2016 to August 2018, the
withdrawals were paid to various grandchildren.
She says she understood that setting up the trusts would mean the trustees would no longer
be liable for tax, but she was faced with an income tax bill as she had exceeded her annual
tax-free allowance. She complained to TCS that the advice she was given was incorrect and 
she was mis-sold the investment as it didnt meet her investment objectives. In addition, she 
thought she would no longer be liable for inheritance tax as the seven-year period had 
lapsed. This didnt happen and the seven-year period had to begin again in 2019. 
She says that she was unhappy with the charges being applied to this offshore trust 
particularly as they had significantly higher costs than similar onshore funds and were more 
complex. She says theyd increased from around £124 per quarter (£496 per year) to about 
£680 per year (approximately £170 per quarter).
TCS say she was out of time for complaining based on the six and three year rules outlined
by the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and so is not within the remit of this service. They
also say they wrote to Mrs S in July 2014 telling her what she needed to do. They rejected 
her complaint, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here agreed with TCS in part, that the complaint was out of time on the six 
and three year rule in relation to the advice given when the account was set up. She also 
said the complaint was in time in relation to the complaint about charges applied to the 
account and the complexity of it as these were both issues which were still on-going and 
continued to impact the account. In relation to the charges, the investigator said she thought 
the charges were made sufficiently clear so didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator, so this came to me for a decision. In my decision, I 
looked at whether we were able to look at this complaint or if it was out of time on the DISP 
rules. I agreed that TCS were correct to say the complaint in relation to the tax advice was 
out of time and Mrs S should have known by July 2014 that she had cause for complaint. 
I also said I was able to consider the complaint about ongoing charges and complexity 
because this was not about the initial account that was set up, it was about charges that are 
being added to the account now so the six and three year rules that TCS relied on didnt 
apply here. I will now consider the merits of this element of the complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I will not address each point individually, please be assured that I have considered all 
the information that has been provided by both parties including the information given after 
the investigators view was issued and more recently.
Mrs Ss main complaint about charges is that the offshore discretionary trust she was told to 
invest in has significantly higher charges which continued to increase compared to similar 
onshore funds and was more complex. So, Ive looked at what TCS would be expected to do 
here and what information was available to Mrs S when considering what she knew about 
the charges that were to be applied. 
I would expect to see TCS giving Mrs S a detailed breakdown of all charges and where 
possible, include details of any on-going changes that apply. They should be as transparent 
and clear as possible for Mrs S to make an informed decision as to whether to invest or not. 
TCS say that a charges and fees document was prepared for her by the adviser in a 
financial planning report in April 2012 giving her the information in detail. In July 2012 
(before the trust was set up in August 2012), the adviser sent Mrs S a document named 
Wealth Preservation Account, Fees and Charges. I have seen that this lists all the charges 
that apply in point 5. Charges that applied to the account include an insurer charge of 1.5% 
and a broker fees of 0.75% - both a percentage of the invested amount. In addition to this, 
an annual management charge of 1.29% (inclusive of 0.5% annual charge to the broker) 
was applied and a quarterly insurer administrative charge. 
The account information also makes clear that the charges and fees were subject to change 
in line with inflation and other changes to costs of administering the account. 
Please  note that *(the  insurer)  may vary its charges  and fees in line with inflation  
or to reflect  other  changes  in the costs  of administering and managing  tile account.  
These  changes  in costs  may be due to external  costs  to *(the  broker)  or changes  
in tax, regulation or law increasing  the underlying cost of administering  the 
account. Any future increases in charges and fees will be published on our website
It is reasonable to expect there would be some change in the level of charges applied to an 
account over a period of time. It would be unusual for any charges to remain unchanged for 
the lifetime of this type of investment. The above information on the account made this clear 
and also explained where the information regarding any changes would be found. I have 
seen this information noted in different places in the literature provided. 
I am also persuaded that Mrs S would have sought information about the charges 
particularly as the advisor had drawn attention to charges in the communications above and 
mentioned that charges were discussed in some depth in July 2012. Mrs S has more 
recently also provided copies of email communications with the adviser at TCS in November 
2012 in which they discuss the account charges in detail again. Here she raises concerns 
around the amount of charges being too high. This communication also highlights issues 
around charges applied that Mrs S was not told about when the account was opened. In an 
email to Mrs S in February 2013, TCS accepted this was an error on their part as they hadnt 
realised that these charges were being applied and hadnt included them in the original 
advice given. It is also accepted by both parties, that these additional charges are one off charges that 
applied at the start of the investment. I understand that Mrs S chose not to take further 
action on this issue. As these are not on-going charges, they do not form part of the 
complaint that I am considering here.
I havent seen anything that would suggest that Mrs S is someone who wouldnt reasonably 
be able to understand the type of investment being offered here with some advice. That 
doesnt mean she needed to be an expert in discretionary trusts or taxation because the 
investment was set up with on-going advice services. So, I am satisfied that the information 
given to Mrs S wasnt particularly complex and was sufficiently clear in explaining the 
charges that would be applied to the account and I am persuaded that she knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known there was a real prospect of changes to the amounts being 
charged.
The information Mrs S has provided shows that her main objective when making this 
investment was to minimise her potential inheritance tax liability, increase capital growth and 
retain some control over the investment. The main benefit of an offshore discretionary trust 
is exactly this  it provides tax efficient benefits that are not available for other investments. 
TCS agree that that this type of offshore trust is more expensive than onshore trusts but they 
explained that any capital growth within the offshore trust would not immediately be subject 
to capital gains tax or income tax. This was the main reason and difference between opting 
for an offshore product as opposed to an onshore product and the potential tax benefits of 
an offshore discretionary trust outweigh other investments. I note that Mrs S says that any 
gains that TCS talk about are marginal, particularly once all the charges are factored in but I 
dont think this is conclusive or even foreseeable. This would come down to performance of 
the investment and any determination on this could only be with the benefit of hindsight.
In summary, while I do understand why Mrs S was concerned about the charges, I am 
satisfied that these were explained to her in sufficient detail as well as the possibility of 
increase in these charges. In terms of the complexity of the trust and charges, I havent seen 
anything to suggest this type of trust would be particularly complex for her. It is also 
important to remember that the purpose of the trust was to reduce potential inheritance tax 
liability and an offshore discretionary trust achieves this objective. As neither Mrs S nor TCS 
dispute that looking for a tax efficient investment was the main objective, Im not persuaded 
that TCS did anything wrong here.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope she will understand why I 
have decided not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against TenetConnect Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman