DRN-2375336
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) in May 2010.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice about whether to take out 
the URCA.
Mr and Mrs W had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft facility, so they knew 
these had been available.
Mr and Mrs W were experienced in using financial products such as current accounts, 
mortgages and savings accounts. And free and fee-paying bank accounts were widely 
advertised and available in 2010 from other banks and financial institutions. So, while I dont 
doubt their honest recollections, I think if they been told that only fee-paying accounts would 
be available from 2010 onwards, and they didnt want one, I think they would have queried 
this, looked elsewhere and found a suitable product that met their needs.
Halifax has provided evidence that Mr W took out a re-mortgage before they opened the 
URCA, so I think they knew that their re-mortgage wasnt dependent on taking out the 
URCA. And Ive seen no evidence they were told it was.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice whether to 
take out the URCA and they chose to take it out.
Mr and Mrs W says the URCA was an advised sale. Halifax disputes this but I will accept it 
was an advised sale, as this is to Mr and Mrs Ws advantage, and doesnt affect my 
decision.
So, Halifax was required to ensure the URCA was suitable for Mr and Mrs W and provide 
them with enough information to make an informed choice.
Mr and Mrs W have been clear that they did get comprehensive information about the URCA 
in a meeting with Halifax, and Halifax has provided evidence that it gave Mr and Mrs W a full 
information pack about the URCA. So, I think its more likely than not that they had enough 
information to make their choice.
In my view, I cant say the URCA was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W. I say this because the 
main benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance and better overdraft facilities. Mr and Mrs W say that in 2010 they travelled, had a 
car and a phone, and their account records show they occasionally used the overdraft 
facility. 
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt use the account benefits much, but it was for them to arrange 
to use the benefits as they wished to. And they could have closed the URCA at any time but 
didnt for many years.
I note that Mr and Mrs W say that Halifax made an error in its response to their complaint 
and they had multiple problems with the car breakdown service during the time they had the 
URCA. 
But this doesnt change my overall view about the sale of the URCA, which is that Mr and 
Mrs W knew they had a choice and chose to take it out; the URCA was suitable for them; 
and there was nothing which Halifax didnt tell them which would have put them off buying it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman