DRN-2344020
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 1999. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card in the store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
so that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs S clear information about the policys main exclusions at the 
point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to her, as she had a pre-existing medical 
condition which would not have been covered.
I understand AXAs point that Mrs Ss condition was able to be managed. But shed only 
recently been diagnosed at the time, so she wouldnt have necessarily known how it would 
affect her in the years to come. And it would have been fresh in her mind as a key concern. 
Mrs Ss condition was a chronic, lifelong one, which needed lifestyle changes, various 
medications, and frequent doctor visits. And it could have developed some serious 
complications. Indeed, I think it wouldve been the condition that Mrs S was most concerned 
about at the time, and she wouldve thought it was the most likely one to cause her to claim. 
But this policy excluded claims not only for her condition, but for anything which resulted 
from it  which cast a potentially wide net here. So Mrs S couldnt have claimed for 
everything she might have expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs S wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her clear enough information 
about its exclusions. So I think that Mrs S has most likely lost out because of the flaws in this 
sale.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
I direct AXA France IARD to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman