DRN-1979668
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited (RCI) is not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Miss R complained about Bluetooth connectivity from the beginning and, if a fault was 
established, the relevant legislation would suggest that RCI allow Miss R to reject the car.
But Im not persuaded that there is a fault with this car. I understand that Miss R is upset that 
her phone wont connect with the Bluetooth system, but I think the evidence suggests this is 
not because the cars Bluetooth system is faulty but because her phone isnt compatible with 
it.
I say that because the tests the dealership carried out showed the system would connect to 
other brands of phone but not the brand Miss R had. 
The car manual explains that:
Some Bluetooth audio devices may not be recognised by the in-vehicle audio system.
So, I dont think there was ever a promise that any phone Miss R had would connect and I 
can understand that the manufacturer has no control over the phone manufacturer. So, they 
are powerless to change anything the phone manufacturer may have done to impact on 
connectivity between their phones and the type of car Miss R has.
Miss R says she wasnt provided with the car manual, but I dont think it would be fair to 
expect RCI to provide technical information about every aspect of the car. 
I understand that the car Miss R had previously been driving through the same dealership 
had been able to connect with the Bluetooth system and that the dealership should therefore 
have advised her the new car wouldnt connect. I understand Miss Rs frustration at that, but 
I dont think theres evidence she was told her new car would connect and I dont think it 
would be fair to hold the dealership accountable for understanding her brand of phone 
wouldnt connect. Theyre not technical experts on the phone.
Miss R has provided a copy of a decision made by an alternative dispute resolution service 
who considered Miss Rs complaint in relation to the actions of the dealership. Whilst that 
service upheld Miss Rs complaint in part, they were reviewing the dealerships actions 
against a code of practice for vehicle sales and I dont think it would be fair to consider that 
against the finance provider in this case.
Im not therefore persuaded that there is evidence of a fault with this car that makes it of 
unsatisfactory quality and Im not asking RCI to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman