DRN-3634186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) managed their 
mortgage.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs L got a twelve-year repayment mortgage with Barclays. In 2007 the 
mortgage was converted to an interest only mortgage. 
In 2017 Mr L contacted Barclays to say that he was involved in a dispute with his former 
employer. He said the first part of the case had been settled out of court, and he anticipated 
that the second part would also be settled before the end of the mortgage term. Mr L said he 
hoped to use the money he got from the claim to redeem the balance of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage ended in June 2017. Barclays put a hold on Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage account to give Mr and Mrs L time for the case to be settled in 2017. However, in 
March 2018 Barclays decided to proceed with litigation to recover the balance of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs L complained about this. In its May 2018 final response Barclays said 
it couldnt accept the resolution of Mr Ls case with his former employer as a way to repay 
the mortgage. 
Barclays put a hold on its litigation after this but re-started it again in April 2019. At this time 
Barclays felt that Mr and Mrs L were no closer to resolving the dispute with Mr Ls former 
employer. However, the mortgage was redeemed before Barclays got a court order to 
repossess the property. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to Barclays about how it had handled their account after their 
mortgage had ended in 2017. In September 2021 Barclays issued a final response that said 
it hadnt made a mistake when it continued with the repossession process. It felt that it had 
tried to assist Mr and Mrs L since their mortgage ended in 2017.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said theyd updated Barclays as appropriate, and that the 
dispute with Mr Ls former employer had taken so long to resolve because Mr Ls former 
employer wouldnt respond to them. So they felt that Barclays shouldve been more 
understanding and done more to help them. 
Mr and Mrs L say that Barclays actions caused them a great deal of stress and exacerbated 
the problems they were already experiencing with their health and finances. Mr L says that in 
addition to taking action to repossess the property Barclays led them to believe that it had 
lost sensitive documents  something they say also increased the stress they were under. 
They complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs L were out of time to complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about the issues covered by Barclays May 2018 final response. Thats 
because they didnt refer their complaint to us within the six-month time limit set out in that 
final response. Mr and Mrs L accepted that.
Our investigator went on to consider the other issues Mr and Mrs L had complained about. 
He appreciated that Mr and Mrs L had kept Barclays updated about Mr Ls dispute with his 
former employer. However, he said that by February 2019 there was still no clear end date 
for the dispute. By then nearly two years had passed since Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage had 
ended, so he didnt think Barclays acted unreasonably when it decided to proceed with 
litigation in April 2019. Our investigator also said that even if the case with Mr Ls employer 
had proceeded, there was no guarantee that Mr L would win it and be in a position to use 
winnings from that to repay the mortgage. 
Our investigator considered the documents that Mr L had complained about. He thought 
there had been a misunderstanding about what Mr L had been referring to as Barclays told 
him it had found the documents after hed been able to give it more detail about them. So 
our investigator didnt think that Barclays needed to do anything to resolve that part of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Barclays actions after Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage ended in 2017
The main question that I need to consider in this complaint is whether Barclays acted 
reasonably when it took action to repossess the mortgaged property after Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage had ended. 
Barclays took some action to re-start this process in 2018, but that action was put on hold 
after this, and restarted again in 2019. 
Mr L wanted to use winnings from his case against his former employer to repay the balance 
of the mortgage. He told Barclays the case wasnt progressing and the reasons for this. As 
the delay was outside of his control (his former employer didnt engage with the case as it 
should) he doesnt think Barclays should have taken action to repossess the mortgaged 
property.
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about his case against his former employer and how 
frustrated he was about the length of time it took for that case to be progressed. However, I 
think Barclays was entitled to take action to repossess the mortgaged property. I say that 
because there was no guarantee that Mr L would win the case against his former employer 
and be in a position to use money he was awarded from that case to repay his mortgage. 
Despite this, Barclays paused repossession action in 2018 and 2019 to give the case time to 
proceed. By April 2019 (when Barclays restarted repossession proceedings again) Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage had been outstanding for nearly two years (after it had ended in June 
2017). So I dont think it would be fair to say that Barclays didnt give Mr and Mrs L time for 
the case against Mr Ls employer to progress before it took action to repossess the 
mortgaged property. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs L redeemed their mortgage with help from their family. So Mr L thinks 
Barclays should reimburse him and Mrs L for the court fees and search costs they incurred 
in connection with the repossession proceedings that had been started before the mortgage was redeemed. I understand Mr Ls position on this. However, as I think that Barclays was 
entitled to progress the repossession proceedings in 2018 and 2019 I dont think it would be 
fair for me to say that it should write off the costs it incurred in connection with those 
proceedings. 
Missing documents
Mr L has told us that in addition to the stress of the repossession action Mr L was very 
worried that Barclays had lost sensitive documents about his case against his former 
employer. Mr L feels that Barclays didnt bother to look for the documents and was 
indifferent to the stress this matter caused him and Mrs L on top of the problems they were 
already experiencing with their health and finances. Mr L says he gave Barclays 
documentary evidence and photocopies of the papers he was referring to.
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about this. Its not clear to me exactly what Barclays 
did to find the documents before Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
However, having considered what Barclays has told us, and how the documents were found 
relatively quickly after our investigator asked Barclays about them, Im persuaded that there 
was some confusion on Barclays part about exactly what documents Mr L was referring to 
when he first contacted Barclays about that matter. I appreciate how frustrated and worried 
Mr L was by this. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays deliberately tried to prolong 
the matter as Mr L has suggested. 
In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Barclays 
to compensate Mr and Mrs L for this matter. My role is to try and resolve Mr and Mrs Ls 
dispute with Barclays. It isnt for me to punish Barclays for the time it took for the missing 
documents to be found.
Conclusion
I empathise with Mr and Mrs L, and recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing 
for them. Im very sorry to hear about the health problems they have told us about and 
appreciate that the last few years have been incredibly stressful for them. However, for the 
reasons set out above, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Barclays to compensate 
Mr and Mrs L for Barclays actions in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman