DRN-3824822
The complaint
Miss O complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She seeks further compensation for the effect of its errors.
 
What happened
Miss O was involved in a non-fault accident and she mistakenly called an accident 
management company (AMC) to recover her car, thinking it was her broker. She realised her 
error the next day and called Advantage to make a claim. Advantage said it would recover 
her car from the AMC, but it didnt. Advantage later told Miss O that she was responsible for 
the AMCs storage charges of about £500. Miss O found this very upsetting due to her 
personal circumstances at the time. 
Miss O complained and Advantage agreed that she hadnt been warned about the storage 
charges and she was made to think that Advantage would recover her car. But the AMC 
then sold the car as the storage bill hadnt been paid and Advantage said it would settle her 
claim on a total loss basis. 
Advantage agreed there had been service failings and it paid Miss O £225 compensation 
and reimbursed her £99.18 for her personal things left in the car. Advantage said it also 
waived the policy excess and provided Miss O with a courtesy car throughout the claim. But 
Miss O remained unhappy with this and with the valuation of her car.  
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Advantage 
had caused Miss O considerable stress and upset over a period of some months. So she 
thought Advantage should increase its compensation payment to £650 in keeping with our 
approach. And she thought Advantage should reimburse Miss O £82.50 for the interest she 
had paid to her finance company after the point when the claim should have been settled.  
Advantage replied that it agreed to reimburse the interest. But it thought its compensation 
payment, alongside waiving the policy excess and providing a courtesy car, was sufficient in 
the circumstances. Advantage asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its agreed that Advantage should have warned Miss O from the outset of the 
claim that shed be responsible for the storage fees, and it should have acted to recover her 
car from the AMC. Im satisfied that if the claim had been handled correctly, Miss O would 
have kept her car and her claim wouldnt have been delayed for three months.
From what Ive seen I think Advantage made the following errors in handling Miss Os claim:  
It mismanaged Miss Os expectations regarding the storage fees.
It failed to come to an agreement with the AMC to recover Miss Os car.
It didnt reasonably provide Miss O with meaningful updates on her claim leaving Miss O 
to take the initiative to contact it. 
It caused Miss O distress by telling her to pay a £500 bill, accumulated through no fault 
of hers.
Its mismanagement of the claim resulted in the sale of Miss Os car which could have 
been entirely avoidable.
Miss O had no choice but to accept a cash settlement for her claim, instead of having her 
car repaired.
Miss O lost personal belongings which were stored in the vehicle, so she had to take 
additional steps to provide evidence of her losses to be reimbursed for them.
When a business makes a mistake, as Im satisfied Advantage has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
To put things right for Miss O, Advantage offered Miss O a cash settlement for the loss of 
her car. Miss O is unhappy with this, but the Investigator has already advised her that she 
would need to raise this as a further complaint. So Ill not consider the settlement amount 
here. 
Advantage also paid the storage charges accumulated due to its error. It covered the loss of 
Miss Os personal possessions. It waived the policy excess. It kept Miss O mobile. And it has 
now agreed to reimburse Miss O £82.50 for the interest charges she had to pay due to the 
delay in her claim. I think this restores Miss Os position as far as it can. 
Advantage also paid Miss O £225 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Im 
not satisfied that this goes far enough in the circumstances. Miss O has told us about the 
effect Advantages claim handling had on her at a difficult time. Miss O had to ask her 
partner to take over contacting Advantage. This avoidable stress and worry went on for three 
months. 
I think Advantage's errors caused considerable distress, upset and worry to Miss O and the 
impact lasted over many months. Our Investigator recommended a compensation payment 
of £650 (in total) for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Miss O £82.50 for the interest she paid on her finance agreement due to the 
delay in her claim being settled, as Its already agreed to do. 
2. Pay Miss O £425 further compensation (£650 in total) for the considerable distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman