DRN-2451485
The complaint
Ms J says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she 
struggled to make the repayments to the loans on top of her other bills. She needed to 
borrow from other places to make ends meet during this time. And she says Provident used 
information about her circumstances that wasnt entirely accurate in order to approve the 
loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Provident provided to Ms J between 
December 2019 and May 2020.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 09/12/2019 £200 26 01/05/2020
2 20/02/2020 £160 52 outstanding
3 21/05/2020 £200 26 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Provident had made 
were proportionate and the checks show that Ms J was likely to be afford the repayments 
she was committed to making. 
Ms J asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. As no agreement has been reached 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loans 1 and 3 Ms J needed to repay £12 a week. Loan 2 was around £6 a week. Ive 
seen a record of the information Ms J provided when she completed her loan applications. 
Ms J said she had a monthly income of between £900 and £1,200. After looking at her 
expenses this left her with a weekly disposable income of between £70 and £180.  So, the 
loan repayments wouldve seemed affordable to Provident. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms J mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. 
Ms J says that some of the information Provident used may not have been entirely correct. 
But from what Ive seen Provident verified her income and took details about her expenditure 
that dont look unreasonable to me. And it hadnt yet reached the points where Provident 
needed to fully verify the information Ms J was providing. And Ms J hasnt provided further 
detail about why the information Provident had wasnt correct. So Im not upholding her 
complaint for this reason. 
So, overall, I think it was reasonable for Provident to rely on the information it obtained. And I 
think the assessments Provident did for these loans were proportionate. And I think its 
decisions to lend for loans 1 to 3 were reasonable. Im not upholding Ms Js complaint about 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman