DRN-3465041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance (RSA)s handling of their 
buildings insurance.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events up to RSAs submission to our service in December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about what has happened. I want to assure them 
Ive read and considered everything theyve said very carefully  including the journey of the 
claim and their experience. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate the experience and issues Mr and Mrs D have described, the total time 
the claim has been outstanding and delays that were not of their making. But its not 
unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved. So, this means I 
wont be holding RSA responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable. 
From looking at the journey I can see there have been a number of issues throughout 
the claim that have caused delays that were reasonably avoidable. Including delays 
to requesting site investigations and monitoring, the subsequent report, delays in 
receiving the arboriculturists report, in signing off action following monitoring 
concluding, removing asbestos discovered at the property and several instances of 
RSA going back and forth with contractors before a final scope of work could be 
issued.
I can see also Mr and Mrs D have contacted RSA several times during the claim to 
highlight their concerns with RSA and its handling of the claim. These include calls 
not being returned, issues with RSAs contractors, a lack of contact, a lack of 
clarification and a lack of updates.
There was additionally a delay from when Mr and Mrs D initiated the claim to the first 
visit at the address. Mr and Mrs D feel this was also an avoidable delay. However, 
Im satisfied the issues that caused this delay were industry wide and werent 
avoidable.
Mr and Mrs D say RSA should have ensured they were adequately resourced to 
cope with the demand.  I have power to require businesses to compensate for loss or 
material distress or inconvenience, and to direct a business to take action in relation 
to an individual. But I dont have the ability to order a business to change its practices 
in a more general way  such as its recruitment.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds thoughts on the level of compensation our 
investigator recommended. Its clear from what theyve said that RSAs handling of 
the claim, avoidable delays, and their experience with interacting with RSA and its 
agents, has caused them substantial distress and upset.  For this they have my 
natural sympathy. 
However, considering everything Ive set out above, I do think £1,000 compensation 
adequately reflects the trouble and upset theyve been caused by RSA. I am not 
therefore minded to increase this amount.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance to pay Mr and Mrs D £1,000 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman