DRN-1989911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy associated with their mortgage by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander in November 1998. Then in October 2003 
they applied for a further advance on their mortgage and shortly after this, in November 2003 
they applied for a PPI policy to cover their mortgage repayments. The PPI was only to cover 
Mr C if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The PPI policy 
was cancelled in June 2004.
Mr and Mrs C have now complained the PPI was mis-sold. 
Santander said it wasnt upholding the complaint the PPI was mis-sold. It also considered if 
any excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums Mr and Mrs C 
had paid, needed to be refunded and when looking at this offered and paid compensation in 
total of £46.81 after tax.  
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with what Santander had said about the mis-sale and brought 
their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what Santander had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Mr and Mrs C also say nothing was said about the PPI to them and they had no idea they 
had taken it out. They say they were given no policy or details about the insurance and they 
would not have requested it. Following the adjudicators view they have indicated they would 
not have agreed to the PPI as they had had problems claiming on another policy in the past 
and the they wouldnt have wanted to pay the money that it cost. 
Santander has provided a copy of the application form for the further advance that Mr and 
Mrs C completed. On this there is a section where they could select to receive information 
and a quotation about PPI  or they could select to say they didnt want to consider taking 
out protection. I can see on this form, signed on 14 October 2003, that Mr and Mrs C have 
selected to be provided with more information and quote for the PPI.
So when applying for the further advance they didnt sign anything to agree to take out the 
PPI, but they did indicate they wanted more information and a quote. After this they were 
contacted in November 2003 by telephone. This call was to discuss the PPI, what it covered 
and to provide more information and a quote and to discuss if Mr and Mrs C wanted to take 
out a policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us they recall the PPI was taken out over the phone, so it seems 
they do recall a telephone call, and as this was only relating to the PPI the must have had 
some discussion about a policy, even though they no longer remember this. 
The process was such that information would have been provided about the PPI and also 
collected about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances which resulted in a recommendation being 
made that only Mr C should be covered. There is no record of that call available, but after it 
Mr and Mrs C would have been sent an application form, purely for the PPI, setting out what 
it covered, who it covered and what the cost was. And Mr and Mrs C would have been 
required to sign and send back the form, together with a separate direct debit form for the 
PPI premium which was payable monthly. 
Mr and Mrs C already had a mortgage in place with Santander without PPI, and the new 
further advance in 2003 was applied for totally separately to the PPI application. So I think 
Mr and Mrs C should have been aware they had a choice about taking out the PPI policy.
As the sale took place over the phone and the application form sent out for signature is no 
longer available, I cannot know what was actually said and presented to Mr and Mrs C. 
Santander did have procedures in place at the time when sales of this sort took place and 
without clear evidence that Santander didnt follow its procedures, I think it most likely that it 
did.
During the call Santander would have been required to obtain information about Mr and 
Mrs Cs circumstances to ascertain if the PPI was suitable for their needs, as Santander 
says this would have been an advised sale. Based on the information collected Santander 
would have made a recommendation about the PPI, which should have been outlined during 
the phone call. The application form sent out to Mr and Mrs C for signature would have 
contained the recommendations and Mr and Mrs C would have had the chance to consider 
what the cover was for and the costs and benefits before signing and returning the form. 
A copy of the Welcome Letter and Pack sent to Mr and Mrs C dated 29 November 2019 has 
been provided. This included the Certificate of Insurance and a cover booklet setting out the 
terms and conditions. The cover letter also indicated briefly what the policy covered.
The cover was only taken out to cover Mr C. From all the information provided, including the 
further advance application form, I can see that Mr C was working full-time and was the main 
earner. Mrs C was also working, but only earning just less than a third of Mr Cs salary. 
Therefore, it is reasonable that the cover was taken out only to cover Mr C, as if his income 
was lost for any time Mr and Mrs C may have struggled financially. Mr C was eligible for the 
policy and from the information Mr and Mrs C have provided, he would not have been caught 
by any restrictions or limitations in the terms and conditions. For example, he had no pre-
existing medical conditions or unusual employment conditions that would have affected any 
claim.Mr C has indicated he would have had no employment benefits to cover him if he was off 
sick, so the PPI would have been useful in such circumstances. Mr and Mrs C have said 
they could have relied on Mrs Cs income and family if Mr C hadnt been working because of 
sickness or unemployment. But other family members could have had changes in their 
circumstances so this could have been an unreliable source of funding. And if the mortgage 
payments were paid by the PPI, this would have allowed Mrs Cs income to be used for 
other household and day to day expenses, at what could have been a difficult time. 
I dont know if during the phone call full information about the cost and benefit was provided. 
The cost was £21.43 for a benefit of £360.23 per month. Taking account of the cost and 
benefit, this was reasonable for policies of this type. This information should have been set 
out in the application form Mr and Mrs C signed for the PPI and was clearly set out in the 
Schedule of Insurance.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI and I 
dont think better information about the policy and the terms and conditions would have put 
Mr and Mrs C off taking out the cover as Mr C wasnt affected by any restrictions of the 
policy.
In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C. Mr and Mrs 
C should have known it was an optional, separate product to the further advance and they 
had a choice whether to take it out. 
I think Mr and Mrs C did agree to take it out as they felt it could be of benefit to them should 
they need to claim. And as Mr C, who was covered by the policy, was not caught by any 
restrictions in the terms and conditions, further information about limitations and restrictions 
would not have had any effect on their decision at the time to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Santander Bank Plc 
to Mr and Mrs C and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman