DRN-3570417
The complaint
Your text here Mr S complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limiteds (Amtrust) handled 
a claim under a protection plan for damage to his furniture.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known to both parties, so Ill only summarise it here:
Mr S took out a Protection Plan via a furniture retailer to start in July 2016. The plan 
ran until July 2021. It covered accidental damage; accidental staining and structural 
faults.
Mr S submitted a claim for accidental damage to his table. 
The table was inspected and repaired in July 2020. The engineer noted damage to 
the chairs which hadnt been reported and advised Mr S to raise a new claim. 
In August 2020 Mr S submitted a fresh claim to the underwriter for damage to the 
chairs
Amtrust attempted to source replacements without success. It offered Mr S two 
alternatives  to reselect chairs to a maximum cost of £517.08 or accept a cash 
settlement of £258.54 to live with the damaged goods
Mr S was unhappy with the offer made and raised a formal complaint
Amtrust issued its final response letter on 10 November 2020, sent by post to Mr Ss 
home address. It said the offers made were fair and in line with the policy conditions. 
It gave referral rights to the ombudsman service and advised if the complaint wasnt 
referred within six months, the ombudsman service wouldnt have its permission to 
investigate the complaint.
Mr S called Amtrust twice to request a copy of the policy terms and conditions and to 
advise hed visit the shop when it re-opened after national lockdown.
Amtrust advised in December 2020 the claim had been closed but the offers 
remained open until the expiry of the policy.
Mr S raised a further complaint on 21 July 2021. The complaint concerned the 
settlement figures offered for the dining chairs and the repairs to the dining table 
which had failed.
Amtrust sent the second final response letter on 17 August 2021 restating their 
position on the settlement offers and stating an alternative resolution for the table had 
been offered
In October 2021, Mr S referred his complaint to this service
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. He said the 
ombudsman service couldnt look into the offers for the chairs because the complaint 
had been referred too late. However, he also said Amtrust hadnt made an alternative 
offer for the table and it should do so. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion and has asked that an ombudsman 
decide his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here Having done so, I agree with our investigators opinion and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I appreciate Mr S has strong feelings on his case and if I dont mention a particular point hes 
made it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it 
necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr U doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Ive previously issued a decision explaining why I cant consider everything Mr S brought to 
us. This decision relates to the issues addressed in Amtrusts final response dated 17 
August 2021.
Repairs to Mr Ss table were originally made in July 2020. In July 2021, Mr S reported that 
the repair had failed. At this point, Amtrust included this as part of Mr Ss new complaint but 
didnt do anything about making an alternative offer.
Mr S was entitled to have his claim for the damage to the table considered in line with the 
policy terms and conditions because it had previously been repaired and not replaced.
I note Amtrust failed to raise a new claim for the table repairs and therefore didnt deal with 
the new claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
In order to rectify this, Amtrust should deal with the claim as it shouldve been in July 2021.
Im aware Mr S doesnt feel this goes far enough as Amtrust will only make a settlement offer 
in the same way as it did with the chairs. But thats what the policy requires of Amtrust and 
therefore thats all I can direct Amtrust to do.
Mr S has been inconvenienced here by not having his claim promptly dealt with. Ive 
considered the impact of the mistake on Mr S and I find it reasonable that compensation 
should be paid. And Im satisfied that £100 is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
Your text here Amtrust should:
- settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
- provide a payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to settle the claim in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and pay Mr S £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman