DRN-2605093
The complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage that 
started in October 1999. It protected Mr As mortgage monthly repayments in the 
event he was unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr A mainly says he was told that the mortgage probably wouldn't be accepted without the 
PPI. He felt that there was no need for the policy as he would have been paid by his 
employer in the case of sickness from work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Its understandable that Mr A mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when he arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what he says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr As mortgage application includes a section which gives brief details about the benefits of 
PPI. It says here:
We recommend that you consider our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme and it 
set out brief details of the cover the scheme provided in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
I think its fair to say that the paperwork Mr A saw wouldve made him aware that PPI was 
something Halifax thought was a good idea for borrowers. But this isnt wording that I think 
wouldve suggested to Mr A that PPI wasnt optional.
Mr A has signed where it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance.
And, at the same time, he completed and signed a separate application form to have the PPI 
added on to his mortgage account. 
I cant be sure exactly how Halifax explained PPI to Mr A during the meeting when he 
arranged it. But, looking at the paperwork he signed at the time, I think Halifax made Mr A 
aware that it was up to him to apply for the PPI if he wanted to have it.  
The mortgage was a long term financial commitment and Mr As home couldve been at risk 
if he found himself unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage repayments. 
Bearing in mind he alone was responsible for making those repayments, I think its more 
likely that Mr A decided he wanted to protect his home by taking advantage of the benefits 
that PPI offered. So he chose to buy the policy and it was added to Mr As mortgage 
account, at his request, when Mr A selected and applied for the cover he indicated on the 
application he completed.  
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr A. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear way.
Mr A was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr A told us about his work benefits and his financial 
circumstances at the time. He said he wouldve been able to rely on his employer paying 
him full sick pay for a year and then half pay indefinitely. 
The policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if he was unable to work as a 
result of accident or sickness. So this was significantly longer than Mr A couldve relied on 
his employer paying him full sick pay. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay 
from work  giving him a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time, 
especially if he had extra costs as a result of illness or disability.
As well as this, the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months at a time if Mr A lost his job 
unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr A had some savings at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. And the policy paid 
out for significantly longer than the amount of savings hes mentioned wouldve lasted if hed 
had to rely on these to cover his outgoings when he was unable to work.  
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. This gave Mr A long term protection for his 
mortgage. Having PPI meant Mr A could be sure hed be able to meet his mortgage 
commitment. So I think the policy couldve been useful to him. And it looks like that turned 
out to be the case as Halifax told us that Mr A made a successful claim on the policy. 
The monthly cost of the policy was set out on the PPI application and it seems Mr A found 
this acceptable. He chose a benefit level that covered his mortgage monthly repayments. 
And Mr A also took out some extra benefit to cover other mortgage related costs as well  
Mr A couldve used this additional money to help him pay household bills. 
So I think Halifax did do enough to make Mr A aware that hed be paying for PPI and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for him.  
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if those applied in Mr As case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr A off taking it out since this didnt affect him.
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr A wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think he still wouldve taken out the policy.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account everything that Mr A has said in response to 
the adjudicators view. But, on balance, I dont find theres enough information for me to say 
that Halifax mis-sold PPI to Mr A. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman