DRN-4052927
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about AWP P&C SAs settlement of their travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M had travel insurance, insured by AWP, through a bank account.
On 7 May 2022 Mrs and Mr M travelled abroad for a holiday at a private villa on a hotel 
complex and planned to stay ten days. On 13 May 2022 a doctor went to see Mr M as he 
was unwell and he was tested for, and diagnosed with, covid-19. Mrs M became infected a 
few days later. They said they had to stay an additional nine days, mostly in quarantine, and 
they claimed for the additional costs incurred.
AWP accepted the claim. It paid most of the costs claimed but wouldnt pay the cost of the 
PCR tests to check for covid-19 or the doctors fees for providing the tests. Ultimately it said 
the tests were required to confirm the diagnosis of covid-19, to provide the medical evidence 
to support Mrs and Mr Ms claim and to confirm they were fit to fly home. AWP said as the 
costs werent for emergency medical treatment there was no cover under the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr M complained to us. In summary they said:
When Mr M felt very unwell the hotel arranged for the doctor to attend who gave 
Mr M a diagnostic test to check for covid-19 and told them not to leave the villa as 
there was mandatory quarantine if he had covid-19. There was no alternative to 
calling out a doctor and the test was medically necessary for the diagnosis. Before 
they took a flight home the doctor needed to attend again and do another covid-19 
test to see if they were still infectious, if so they couldnt take the flight home. They 
were still infectious when tested before the first re-booked return flight so they had to 
re-book again. 
The policy covered the cost of a doctor attending if they fell ill and the cost of tests to 
confirm a diagnosis.
There was no legal requirement at the time to take a pre-flight PCR test or provide 
medical certification before flying. So the covid-19 tests werent screening tests to 
detect a potential infection before travelling, they were carried out solely as a result of 
them falling ill.
The proximate cause of their loss was their illness which was an insured peril. 
AWP couldnt say it wasnt liable for that loss unless the loss was specifically 
excluded in the policy terms. AWP hadnt told them which specific policy term it relied 
on to decline these costs.
They want AWP to pay for the costs of the doctors attendances and for the covid-19 
tests, about £600 in total.
Our investigator said AWP fairly declined the costs of the doctors attendances and covid-19 
tests so fairly settled the claim.
Mrs and Mr M disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. They added that theyd 
seen an ombudmans decision about policyholders in the same circumstances and the 
ombudsman had said the insurer had to pay the covid-19 test costs.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to partly uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say insurers have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive considered all the points Mrs and Mr M have made but Im not going to respond to them 
all as Ill focus on why Ive made my decision. Mrs and Mr M have referred to another 
decision made by my ombudsman colleague but our decisions dont generally set 
precedents and each complaint is decided on their own individual circumstances and the 
relevant policy wording.
Im intending to partly uphold this complaint as I think AWP unfairly declined all the costs for 
the doctors attendances and PCR tests, but it only needs to pay some of those costs. Ill 
explain why.
The policy says:
Medical and emergency expenses
This is not Private Medical Insurance.
Part One: Emergency Medical Expenses Abroad
If, during the period of the trip, you fall ill (including being diagnosed withCOVID-19 
as well as being subject to compulsory quarantine on the orders of the attending 
GP)the insurer will pay the value of reasonable and necessary costs in respect of:
a) i) emergency treatment (treatment that is required immediately and which 
cannot reasonably wait until you return to your country of residence): dental, 
medical, surgical or hospital treatment (including rescue service to take you to 
hospital) incurred outside your country of residence.
So the policy covers reasonable and necessary costs for emergency treatment if Mrs and/or 
Mr M fall ill.
Mr M says he felt very unwell while on holiday. So I think it was reasonable for the doctor to 
attend and as the cause of Mr Ms illness wasnt known it was reasonable for the doctor to 
do a diagnostic test to try to determine what illness Mr M had.
Even if the doctor suspected Mr M had covid-19 before he had the diagnostic test, which 
appears to be the case as he was given the test, I think it was important for Mr M to have the 
test immediately to know if his illness was covid-19. If so he and Mrs M would need to 
quarantine, which AWP hasnt disputed. If he didnt have covid-19 the illness could be 
treated accordingly. The policy says emergency treatment is treatment that is required 
immediately and which cannot reasonably wait until you return to your country of residence. I think the initial diagnostic test to determine what illness Mr M had was required immediately 
and couldnt reasonably wait until he returned to the UK.
I think the cost of the doctors first attendance on Mr M and the cost of his first diagnostic test 
was emergency medical treatment as set out in the policy terms. Under the policy terms and 
on a fair and reasonable basis AWP should pay those costs plus interest as Ive set out 
below.
Once Mr Ms initial covid-19 test had been done the cause of his illness was known and 
there was no medical need for further diagnostic tests. From what Mrs and Mr M first said 
the purpose of the doctors subsequent attendance/s and subsequent covid-19 tests were to 
check if they could take the return flight. I dont think the doctors subsequent attendance/s 
and tests can reasonably be said to be necessary emergency medical treatment and I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say AWP should pay those subsequent costs.
Mrs and Mr M have also said the covid-19 tests werent screening tests to detect if they still 
had covid-19 before travelling as at the time there was no legal requirement to take a pre- 
flight covid-19 test or provide medical certification before flying. That comment appears to be 
contrary to what they previously said, as Ive detailed above. But even if the doctors 
subsequent attendance/s and covid-19 tests werent to check if Mrs and Mr M could take 
their return flight theres no medical evidence to show why the subsequent attendance/s and 
subsequent covid-19 tests were emergency medical treatment.
Its not clear whether one of the doctors subsequent attendances was just to do a covid-19 
test on Mrs M. If so I dont think those costs were for necessary emergency treatment under 
the policy terms or on a fair and reasonable basis. Theres no medical evidence that Mrs Ms 
symptoms required a doctors attendance. A diagnostic test for Mrs M wasnt required 
immediately as in the circumstances it was highly probable her symptoms were also due to 
covid-19 and Mrs and Mr M were already having to quarantine due to his diagnosis.
I dont think the policy terms have to specifically exclude the claimed costs for AWP to be 
able to decline the claim, as Mrs and Mr M suggest. The Emergency Medical Expenses 
Abroad policy terms set out what AWP will pay for if they become ill. Ive explained why 
I think AWP was unfair to say all of the costs Mrs and Mr M claimed werent covered by the 
policy.
Responses to my provisional decision and further developments
Mrs and Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision, they still want all the costs of the covid-
19 PCR tests paid. They made several points but the most relevant were:
They clarified the relevant countrys requirement to take a pre-flight covid-19 test or 
provide medical certification before flying. They said under the countrys covid-19 
regulations if they had covid-19 they had to quarantine for 10 days from the start of 
symptoms, and if symptoms continued for a further three days after symptoms 
ended. Following the mandatory quarantine no pre-flight covid-19 PCR tests, or a fit 
to fly certificate, was required. If they wanted to return home earlier they needed to 
take a PCR test and a negative result meant they didnt need to quarantine and 
would get a fit to travel certificate which meant they could travel immediately. 
They had a duty to minimise loss to AWP. They gave details which they said showed 
if they hadnt had the tests and just waited for the quarantine period to end AWP 
would have had to pay more in additional accommodation costs than they were 
claiming for all the costs of the covid-19 tests, which wasnt fair to them.We sent AWP the new evidence Mrs and Mr M had provided about the relevant countrys 
covid-19 regulations and covid-19 certification requirements for travel from there to the UK at 
the time. And we summarised to AWP the evidence from Mrs and Mr M that:
Their payments for the covid-19 PCR tests, £604.70 in total, enabled them to fly 
home on 26 May 2022 with a certificate confirming they were negative for covid-19. If 
they had just followed the relevant countrys covid-19 regulations, and not got PCR 
tests to book return flights as soon as they could, they wouldnt have incurred costs 
for the tests but they could only have made arrangements to fly home sometime after 
27 May - 10 full days (as required by the regulations) after Mrs M was diagnosed with 
covid on 16 May.
Them paying for the covid-19 PCR tests, enabling them to make arrangements to 
travel home as soon as possible, mitigated the potential loss to AWP. They paid 
£604.70 for the tests to save AWP £664.82 per day in accommodation (a reduced 
accommodation rate that Mr M had negotiated with the hotel). It couldnt be known 
when the next available flights would have been on or after 27 May 2022 but its 
possible that there would have been more than one days additional accommodation 
costs, at a cost of £664.82 per day.
We told AWP that from the new evidence provided it did seem to me that Mrs and Mr M 
paying for the covid-19 PCR tests, at a total cost of £604.70, did save AWP accommodation 
costs of at least one day at £664.82 per day. As they had the tests they flew home on 
26 May 2022. Without the tests under the regulations they would have flown home on 
27 May 2022 at the very earliest. 
We told AWP that in these circumstances I considered it would be fair and reasonable for 
AWP to pay all the costs of the covid-19 PCR tests, plus interest, as the test costs Mrs and 
Mr M incurred saved it at least one days accommodation cost, which was more than the 
cost of the tests, so Mrs and Mr M mitigated AWPs loss.
We asked AWP for its comments which I would take into account before making my 
decision. AWP said it had reviewed the provisional decision and my additional information 
and it had no further comments to add and awaited my final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made a provisional decision that under the policy terms and on a fair and reasonable basis 
AWP should pay the cost, plus interest, of the doctors first attendance on Mr M and the cost 
of his first diagnostic test as it was emergency medical treatment as set out in the policy 
terms.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs and Mr M provided new evidence. Weve sent 
the new evidence to AWP and told them that I was now intending to uphold the complaint so 
that it pays the claim for all the costs of the covid-19 PCR tests and why I was making that 
decision. We asked for AWPs comments before I made my final decision and its told us it 
has no further comments. AWPs given no evidence that would make me change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given to AWP after my provisional decision, set out above, I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for AWP to pay Mrs and Mr Ms claim for all the costs of the 
covid-19 PCR tests, £604.70 in total, plus interest. The cost of the tests Mrs and Mr M 
incurred saved AWP at least one days accommodation costs. The accommodation costs for one day was £664.82 so more than the total cost of the tests, which meant Mrs and Mr Ms 
payment of the tests costs mitigated AWPs loss.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Mrs and Mr Ms claim for the full costs of the covid-19 PCR tests, plus 
interest as Ive detailed below.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Mrs and Mr Ms claim for the full 
costs of the covid-19 PCR tests. Interest* should be added at 8% simple a year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs and Mr M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman