DRN-1594970
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited gave him poor service that led to 
his motor insurance policy being cancelled.
What happened
Hastings wrote to Mr B several times in September 2019 to tell him it hadnt been able to 
collect his direct debit premium payment at the start of the month. It said if the payment 
wasnt made by 20 September 2019 the policy would be cancelled. 
In the meantime, Mr B had been involved in an accident where his car was written-off. Hed 
been in contact with Hastings about getting a replacement car and about the sum due to him 
for the cars market value. He called Hastings on 20 September 2019 and was told that an 
advisor would call him later that day about the valuation. Hastings agreed (when Mr B 
asked) that he could sort out the premium payment at the same time. An advisor didnt call 
him later that day, and as the premium payment wasnt made, the policy was cancelled. 
Mr B also said that Hastings advisors gave him contradictory details about getting a 
replacement car, that they were rude when he spoke to them and that one advisor had 
laughed at him. He also said an advisor had started to discuss someone elses claim with 
him and had called him by that persons name. 
Hastings accepted that an advisor had  given Mr B misleading information. It offered him £50 
compensation, which he declined. It also offered him a hire car for three days, which he 
accepted. Mr B then complained to us about Hastings actions.
One of our investigators concluded that the cancellation was fair, but that Hastings was at 
fault for not calling Mr B back as promised. He also considered its poor service when dealing 
with the claim. In his view, it was reasonable to ask Hastings to pay Mr B £150 
compensation. Hastings said it would comment on the investigators findings, but later it 
accepted them without further comment. Mr B said he disagreed with the investigators view. 
He didnt explain why, except to say that the compensation proposed wasnt enough - and 
he asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Hastings acted reasonably. It wrote to Mr B three times in September 2019 advising 
him that the policy would be cancelled if the payment wasnt made. Mr B called Hastings on 
the day the policy was due to end. He could have made the payment then, but he didnt. For 
reasons that he hasnt explained, he decided to wait until another advisor called him to sort 
out the valuation for his car, even though the cancellation was imminent. 
If Mr B intended to pay the missed instalment that day, he had the chance to do so when he 
called Hastings. I think that since Hastings advisor promised Mr B that hed get another call 
that day - about the valuation  the call should have been made. But I also think it must have 
been obvious to Mr B that if he didnt get a call, the onus was him to call Hastings again. He 
knew a payment had to be made that day. I think most consumers would have made the call, 
rather than allow the cancellation notice to take effect.
Hastings accepted that one of its advisors gave Mr B the wrong information about a 
replacement car. There were numerous calls about whether Mr B was entitled to a courtesy 
car or to a hire car. A courtesy car wasnt available as one is only provided under the policy if 
a consumers car is being repaired at a garage. Hastings told Mr B from the outset that his 
car was going to be written-off, but it took a few days for that to be confirmed. Mr B spoke to 
many advisors about the issue. Ive listened to the calls, and I think most of them were very 
clear when discussing the issue with Mr B.  
When Mr B asked about a hire car instead, Hastings explored that option, because at the 
start hed told it that the other driver was to blame for the accident. CCTV coverage later 
showed that in fact Mr B was at fault. That meant any car hire charges Mr B ran up wouldnt 
be paid for or refunded by the other drivers insurance. I think Hastings advisors tried to 
make the car hire situation clear to Mr B. And in my opinion, they were consistent in their 
advice, except on one occasion. 
Hastings thought £50 compensation was enough to make up for that. But I think there was 
further poor service  in addition to the call that wasnt made on 20 September 2020 - that 
Hastings didnt address in offering that settlement. 
 
Having listened to over 30 recordings of calls between Hastings and Mr B, I think its advisors 
were polite and tried to be helpful when dealing with his queries. But in one call, when an 
advisor had problems in getting Mr B to follow what he was saying, I think his voice 
conveyed mild amusement. Although I dont think it quite amounted to a laugh, I can see 
why Mr B picked up on it and why he objected to it. In addition, in two of the call recordings, 
an advisor called Mr B by the wrong name and it seems he was looking at the wrong file. He 
mentioned the other consumers full name, but no details of the claim itself were disclosed -  
probably because Mr B picked up on the confusion and pointed it out.  
Taking everything into account, I think it would be reasonable for Hastings to pay Mr B £150 
for poor service (as it has already agreed to do). In the absence of any reasons from Mr B 
setting out why the compensation should be higher, I think that sum is appropriate to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience he faced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman