DRN-3580424
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 22 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr H with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£302,689.99.
Mr H contacted NTM for advice about his BSPS pension. NTM has provided notes that 
indicate it first met with Mr H on 1 October 2017. These say Mr H was now looking for advice 
about what was best to do. Mr H indicated he had a low tolerance for risk and, because of 
having limited knowledge or experience of investments, would be cautious. NTM said Mr H 
would need to consider his attitude to risk and should only proceed if he was prepared to 
accept at least a balanced level of risk.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
NTM spoke to Mr H again on 23 October 2017 and completed a fact-find to gather 
information about his circumstances and objectives. Mr H was 45, married, in good health, 
with two financially dependent children. He was employed full time with his monthly income 
significantly exceeding his outgoings. He owned his own home with an outstanding 
mortgage of £15,000 but this was due to be repaid within five years. Mr H had no other debts 
and had savings of around £72,000 which he was adding to regularly, through his disposable 
income. In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr H was also a member of his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme.
NTM says Mr H hoped to retire at age 55 with an income of approximately £2,000 per month 
in retirement. It said Mr H wanted to avoid his pension falling into the PPF, he wanted control 
over his pension and the flexibility to take pension benefits to suit his needs  such as a 
higher income earlier in retirement. It also said Mr H wanted his wife to receive the full 
benefit of his pension in the event of his death and that Mrs H was concerned about the 
reduction in benefits under the DB scheme which only offered a 50% spouses pension. 
NTM said Mr H was aware of the option of entering the BSPS2 and considering this.
NTM said Mr H still wanted to minimise risk but had said not at the expense of meeting his 
objectives. And it says, as the pension was to be tied up for several years, he agreed he 
could take more risk and was happy to accept a higher level of risk. At the same time though 
NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk as part of the fact find. And the 
results of this analysis subsequently said Mr Hs risk tolerance was very low. 
On 15 November 2017, NTM sent Mr H a suitability report summarising its recommendation. 
The report was dated 13 November 2017. NTM recommended that Mr H transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension. It said the reasons for this were that it provided Mr H the 
flexibility and death benefits he was interested in as well as likely giving him access to a 
greater amount of tax-free cash (TFC) if he retired at 55. NTM said Mr H wanted to break all 
ties with his employer as he felt let down by what had happened, and a transfer gave him 
control over his pension and his own destiny in retirement, ensuring the decision could be 
made for his interests, whereas the scheme would make decisions for all members. The 
report also recommended a new pension provider and how Mr Hs pension should be 
invested  although this noted that the portfolio recommended was based on a minimum 
investment timeframe to age 57. NTM also advised Mr H to agree to it providing ongoing 
reviews and servicing of his pension, for an annual fee.
Mr H complained in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. NTM didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. It said, although it was recorded Mr H had a cautious attitude to risk, it had 
informed him that if he could not accept the appropriate level of risk to meet his objectives, 
he shouldnt transfer. But, as Mr H indicated he was willing to accept the risks to meet his 
objectives, it thought a transfer was suitable as it met those. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that NTM should compensate Mr H for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to. He said, the evidence from the time indicated that Mr H was 
averse to risk. He thought Mr H was unlikely to improve on the benefits he couldve received 
through the BSPS2 and PPF. And he didnt think Mr H had a genuine need to transfer 
because, while he mightve aspired to retire early, his plans were unconfirmed. So, the 
Investigator thought suitable advice wouldve been not to transfer and that Mr H would likely 
have joined the BSPS2 had this been given.
NTM hasnt provided any further comments for our service to consider but we have assumed 
that it did not agree with the Investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Was NTMs advice suitable?
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Hs best 
interests. NTMs role wasnt to put in place what Mr H mightve thought he wanted. It was to 
give him clear, objective advice about what was in his best interests, particularly bearing in 
mind that the primary purpose of a pension is to provide the holders needs in retirement. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied a transfer was in his best 
interests.
From the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr H was clear from the start of the advice 
process that he had a low tolerance for risk. He had been prompted to contact NTM in the 
first place because of the concern over the position of the BSPS pension in general. And in 
the first meeting NTM recorded that Mr H said he didnt understand investments and would 
be cautious due to his lack of experience. This aversion to risk was reiterated throughout the 
correspondence Ive seen. And an assessment of Mr Hs tolerance for risk confirmed that 
this was very low.
The suitability report also said that Mr Hs attitude to risk was very low. And it stated, if you 
are not happy to accept at least a balanced investment approach level of risk, it would be 
inappropriate for us to recommend that you transfer out of the BSPS at this current time. 
NTM was required to take into account all of the relevant information about Mr H when giving 
advice. And his attitude to risk was particularly relevant here. The advice shouldve been 
based on his actual attitude to risk, and what was in his best interests bearing this in mind. 
Even if that meant the recommendation went against some of the objectives he mightve 
expressed a preference for - the advice here shouldnt have been based on wish fulfilment.
But rather than recommending against a transfer, based on the assessment of risk it had 
carried out, NTM seems to have instead persuaded Mr H to accept that he was willing to 
take a higher degree of risk. And then, when he agreed to this, recommended a transfer 
because of his other stated objectives. While I acknowledge that Mr H is an adult and plainly capable of making his own decisions, I dont think getting him to accept more risk, in order to 
make the recommendation appropriate demonstrates NTM was acting in his best interests. 
And for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that the assessment that he had a very low 
attitude to risk, was likely accurate.
Financial viability 
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator). This 
included a calculation of how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as he was entitled to under the DB scheme (the critical 
yield). 
Having reviewed a copy of the TVAS, the critical yield figures appear to have been based on 
matching Mr Hs existing scheme, the BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. 
But Mr H didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the 
BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF if retaining his DB scheme benefits. But while a 
critical yield was calculated in respect of moving to the PPF, there was no comparison to the 
BSPS2.
NTMs role was to look at and advise Mr H about what was in his best interests. Transferring 
out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits 
of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. And in my view, in order to assess what was in 
Mr Hs best interests and give him enough information to make a fully informed decision, I 
think this shouldve included analysis of the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve offered. 
NTM has argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. And has said that this uncertainty 
was part of the reason Mr H sought advice. But I think NTM is overstating the chance of the 
BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount 
of time by the point NTM instructed the TVAS reports and provided Mr H advice. Mr Hs 
employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, and these had been carried out 
as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of 
improved transfer value quotations in September 2017. Mr H had also received his time to 
choose pack  with joining the new scheme one of the options. And details of the new 
scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the 
BSPS but the annual increases wouldve been lower. So, based on what had happened to 
that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident that the BSPS2 
would go ahead. And enough information was available to enable a TVAS to be completed 
to analyse these benefits. Of course, its possible it may not have gone ahead. But given it 
appeared likely to proceed I still think the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 
shouldve been factored into the TVAS reports and subsequent advice so that he was able to 
make an informed decision.
These issues notwithstanding, Ive considered the information that was included in the TVAS 
report.
The critical yield to match the full pension the BSPS wouldve provided at age 65 was 
calculated as being 6.83%. Or to match the level of TFC and reduced pension the BSPS 
wouldve offered, 5.71%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve offered at 65 the 
critical yield was 4.57%. And to match the TFC and reduced pension the PPF wouldve 
offered at that point, 4.27%.
Critical yields were also calculated for retiring at age 55  as NTM says this was Mr Hs 
preference. To match what the BSPS wouldve offered at that age the critical yield was 
10.31% for a full pension and 8.05% for TFC and a reduced pension. And to match what the 
PPF wouldve offered at age 55 the critical yields were 7.2% and 6.78% for the same respective options.
While again a comparison of BSPS2 benefits was not produced, even though I think it 
shouldve been, from experience, BSPS2 critical yields for early retirement tended to be 
closer to those of the PPF. And for retirement towards the normal retirement age, moved 
more towards and gradually became more in line with those of the BSPS.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. This 
was 4.4% for 19 years to retirement  relevant if Mr H retired at 65. And for 9 years to 
retirement  the case if Mr H retired at 55  it was 3.7%. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, what 
Ive said about Mr Hs attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value at retirement, than both the BSPS2 and the PPF, as a result of investing 
in line with his attitude to risk. And for early retirement the benefits after transferring were, in 
my view, likely to be substantially lower.
NTM referred in its suitability report to cash flow models that it said indicated, if Mr H 
achieved consistent growth of 5%, he could draw equivalent benefits to those he was giving 
up on a flexible basis, and the fund would last beyond his life expectancy. And it noted the 
past performance of the fund it was recommending indicated this could be achieved.
But those models relied on 5% being achieved year on year. This was not guaranteed and, 
based on Mr Hs actual attitude to risk, appears to have been unlikely to be sustained. And, if 
Mr H didnt draw benefits equivalent to those he was giving up  which NTM indeed 
suggested was his intention as he would draw a higher income earlier in retirement  the 
fund wouldve been likely to run out much sooner. Potentially not leaving Mr H with the 
provisions he needed later in life  which is something that it was noted Mr H was concerned 
about. As NTM will also be aware, past performance is no guarantee for future performance 
and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward.
Taking all of this into account from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer out 
of the DB scheme was in Mr Hs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
NTM says Mr H wanted to retire at age 55 and have an income of around £2,000 per month. 
And that transferring was the only way to achieve this. Mr H has confirmed now, several 
years after the advice, that he would still like to retire at age 55. But he says he is pragmatic about this, his plans are still not finalised and werent at the time.
As Ive already said, it wasnt NTMs role to put in place what Mr H mightve believed he 
wanted or base its advice on wish fulfilment. It was to provide Mr H objective advice about 
what was in his best interests  even if that went against what he thought he wanted.
At the time of taking advice, Mr H was still nearly ten years from his apparent intended 
retirement or when hed be able to begin drawing benefits. I dont doubt that Mr H mayve 
aspired to retire early. I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to retire 
early. But, for the majority, early retirement means a significant drop in income. Which would 
dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As a result, 
when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. 
And given the time to retirement and that his circumstances could be subject to change, I 
dont think its likely Mr Hs plans were finalised.
In addition, Mr H couldve drawn benefits early under both the PPF and the BSPS2. So, he 
didnt need to transfer in order to draw benefits from age 55, if he did ultimately decide he 
wanted to do so.
NTM said the only way Mr H could draw an income of £2,000 per month from his pension at 
age 55 was by transferring. 
The TVAS said, under the PPF, from age 55, Mr H could take either an annual pension 
starting at £10,297.85 or TFC of £58,166.43 and a reduced pension of £8,733.47. So, this 
wouldnt have met his income objective. Again, what benefits would be payable under the 
BSPS2 doesnt appear to have been calculated. And by failing to do this, NTM didnt give 
Mr H all of the relevant information to consider. But given the PPF benefits for early 
retirement tended to be more generous than the BSPS2, I dont believe Mr H wouldve been 
able to meet his stated income objective through the BSPS2 alone at 55 either.
But Mr H was also a member of his employers new defined contribution pension scheme. 
So, he wouldve had the proceeds of that to combine with his DB scheme at retirement, to 
potentially assist in meeting his income objective. NTM doesnt seem to have gathered 
information about the level of contributions being made to this pension by Mr H and his 
employer. Which I think was a failing on its part as this information wouldve been useful. But 
it did note that this pension was valued at just under £5,000 at the time of the advice  less 
than a year since it was established. And given Mr Hs salary and what I know about the 
base level of contributions to this pension that Ive seen in other complaints, before even 
accounting for growth, Mr H increasing contributions or being awarded any pay rises, its 
likely that by 55 this policy wouldve been worth around £48,000. 
On top of this, Mr H had savings and deposits of over £70,000. And he indicated he was 
continuing to grow this amount regularly, because his income exceeded his expenditure  
which is supported by the fact find. So, as it was almost ten years until he could take any 
benefits from his pension, its reasonable to think this amount was likely to have increased 
quite significantly, particularly bearing in mind his mortgage was due to be cleared in under 
five years, by the time he mightve come to utilise it.
So, Mr H wouldnt have just had the benefits of the DB scheme to rely on to meet his income 
objective. And a combination of his provisions was likely to make this more achievable, with 
the DB scheme pension also continuing to escalate in payment. This is before accounting for 
any income or pensions Mrs H would continue to receive. And Mr H has said he was 
pragmatic about his objectives and whether they were achievable and remains so. 
More importantly though, while the flexibility of a personal pension wouldve allowed Mr H to draw £2,000 per month from age 55, I cant see that there was any analysis of how long this 
level of withdrawal could be sustained for. All of the cash flow models NTM carried out were 
only based on replicating the benefits of the DB scheme  a significantly lower income level 
 and relied on achieving 5% growth consistently, which was not guaranteed. These 
indicated that there would come a point where the fund would run out, but again were based 
on much lower income levels being taken. And based on the CETV, I dont think the level of 
withdrawals NTM says Mr H wanted to make were likely to be sustainable in the long term. 
And again, Mr H indicated one of his concerns was the pension running out. The BSPS2 or 
PPF on the other hand provided a guaranteed income for Mr Hs lifetime with little risk borne 
by him. 
Overall, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests to make an irreversible decision to 
transfer his pension at the point he did and give up the guaranteed escalating benefits hed 
have been entitled to. While Mr H mightve given thought to retiring early, given the time until 
he was intending to retire, I dont think those plans were finalised and couldve been subject 
to change, just as his circumstances and needs may have altered. I dont think transferring 
just to have flexibility that he didnt necessarily need and that may not have resulted in his 
pension being sustainable, was in his interests. And, if he had joined the BSPS2, I 
understand hed have retained the option of transferring closer to retirement, had he wanted 
to pursue this at that point.
Death benefits
NTM said Mr H wanted his wife to benefit from his whole pension fund and that Mrs H was 
concerned about only receiving a 50% spouses pension in the event of Mr Hs death. It is 
worth noting though that this was what Mrs H was already entitled to under the BSPS, before 
any of the issues arose. So, while rates of escalation were altering, overall, the position 
regarding death benefits was unchanged. And there is no indication that Mr and Mrs H had 
expressed concern about this previously or put any thought to transferring to achieve 
alternate death benefits, before the issues with the management of the BSPS arose. So, Im 
not sure this was as great a concern as suggested. 
In any event, I recognise death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, 
most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to 
Mr H. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think NTM 
explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
The spouses pension that would be provided by the DB scheme was 50% of what Mr H 
wouldve received. But this was guaranteed, and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different to that figure  
unless Mr H had passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being dependent 
on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his 
lifetime. Mr H was recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was 
less likely to live until at least his average life expectancy. And given the implication of the 
advice was that Mr H would draw a high income from the pension from age 55, it appears 
likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time he reached his average life 
expectancy, and possibly eroded entirely. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would.
It was indicated that Mr H potentially had death in service benefits from his current employer, 
which appear, in my view, to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a 
legacy to his estate. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also 
provided alternative forms of death benefit to his DB scheme. And, if Mr H didnt think these 
were enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, life 
insurance was an option.
NTM said, in the suitability report, that this was discounted because it was expensive, and it 
quoted a monthly premium of £250.44 to provide cover equivalent to the CETV. But it has 
also provided a copy of the research it undertook around this. And this indicated that whole 
of life cover for this amount was available with a much lower, guaranteed premium under 
£80 per month, from a different provider. Which, given Mr Hs disposable income, appeared 
more affordable.
Also, basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Hs pension benefits essentially assumed 
that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. As Ive 
explained whatever remained of Mr Hs pension on his death was likely to be a lot less than 
the CETV if he lived a long life and / or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point 
ought to have been to ask Mr H how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, and 
this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be 
a lot cheaper to provide.
In any event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. And I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension meant the transfer 
was in Mr Hs best interests or justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for him. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
NTM said Mr H wanted control over how his pension was invested and his own destiny in 
retirement. But it was recorded that Mr H had very limited investment experience or 
knowledge and had a very low attitude to risk. So, I cannot see that he had an interest in or 
the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And I think his desire for 
this has been overstated.
Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont 
doubt Mr H, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer 
had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have 
been a general mistrust and lack of optimism regarding the likelihood of a solution. I also 
dont doubt Mr H was worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard 
negative things about it, and this was why he said he preferred to have control over his 
pension fund. Its also possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
But that is why it was even more important for NTM to give Mr H an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
NTM has said that Mr H wanted a clean break from his employer and had lost faith in its 
management of the pension. But I note he still worked for them, was a member of the 
employers new pension scheme and indicated he had no intention of changing jobs. So, 
while this mightve been a reasonable emotional response, transferring for this purpose 
wasnt in my view, in Mr Hs interests.As Ive explained, by the time of the advice details of BSPS2 were known and, despite what 
NTM has suggested, it seemed likely it was going ahead. The time to choose paperwork 
was clear that opting into that scheme was an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that 
this would go ahead. And I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Hs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM shouldve 
reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He 
didnt have firm retirement plans but couldve in any event taken benefits early under the 
PPF. And while the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have provided 
a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment risk. By 
transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I dont think he was likely 
to be substantially better off by transferring, such that taking this risk was in his interests  
particularly giving his attitude to and tolerance for risk. So, I dont think that these concerns 
shouldve led to NTM recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
NTM recommended how the pension be invested with the new pension provider. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But again, 
NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand Mr Hs circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from 
the consultation and his unconfirmed plans for retirement from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was always very likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, had no other particular reason to transfer 
which would justify giving up these guarantees. His plans for retirement were not finalised 
and transferring doesnt appear likely to have allowed his apparent objectives to be achieved 
sustainably. And the alternative death benefits werent worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to 
transfer to a personal pension. And I think NTM shouldve recommended that he not 
transfer.
Mr H had nearly 10 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire or that he could even think about beginning to draw benefits. But as Ive explained Im 
satisfied his plans were in any event unconfirmed and he wouldve taken a pragmatic view 
on this  particularly given sustaining the level of income that was discussed seems 
unachievable. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't necessarily have 
been offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr H wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think NTM shouldve advised Mr H to opt 
into the BSPS2.Of course, I have to think about whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against NTM's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against NTMs advice. Again, I acknowledge that Mr H is capable of making his 
own decisions. But Mr H was an inexperienced investor with a very low attitude to risk and 
this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if NTM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests  which again, based on his actual attitude to risk it had already suggested 
was potentially the case  I think that wouldve carried significant weight and he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the consultation were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, I dont think 
Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2, if suitable 
advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman