DRN-1699940
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The PPI provided a monthly benefit and covered Mr G in the event of disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Because Mr G and Mrs S 
didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From the copy mortgage application form Mr G and Mrs S signed, I can see NatWest 
made it clear they didnt have to take out the PPI and it appears they chose to take it out 
anyway  although I can understand if they cant remember that now after all this time.
I dont think NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr G and Mrs S, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr G and Mrs S got the 
information they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr G and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
it doesnt look like Mr G, as the person covered by the PPI, was affected by any of the 
exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And, given the importance of them keeping up 
with their mortgage repayments, I believe it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong despite the other provisions Mr G had in place. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G and Mrs S paid on their policy  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly. 
NatWests told us that the commission for Mr G and Mrs S policy was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr G and Mrs S commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr G and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman