DRN-2665759
The complaint
Mr P complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) and their decision to 
reject his Direct Debit Indemnity (DDI) claim.
What happened
Mr P held a current account with BOS for several years. In May 2018, a direct debit for 
£21.99 was set up on this account. A payment was taken each month until June 2019. Mr P 
didnt raise any queries about this payment during this time.
In April 2020, Mr P received a letter from his local Trading Standards office. This letter 
explained his details had been highlighted in an investigation against the company who the 
£21.99 direct debit was set up to pay. It explained some of the direct debits set up had been 
taken without a customers authorisation. And for others, they may have authorised the 
payment but wouldnt have received the service they paid for. So, they made Mr P aware he 
may be entitled to claim back the money hed paid.
Because of this letter, Mr P raised a DDI claim with BOS. Mr P said he hadnt authorised the 
direct debit in the first place so wanted a refund of the payments he made. But BOS rejected 
Mr Ps claim. They felt a significant amount of time had elapsed since the direct debit was 
first created and the last payment made. Because of this, they didnt think Mr Ps claim fell 
within the Direct Debit Guarantee as they wouldve expected him to contact them sooner if 
the payment was unauthorised. And they explained the guarantee didnt cover claims for 
failure to provide a service. Mr P was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P complained about BOSs decision to reject his claim. He explained he hadnt noticed 
the payment being taken from his account. And he thought the letter from Trading Standards 
was enough to show the direct debit was fraudulent. So, he thought they were unreasonable 
not to uphold his complaint.
BOS didnt agree. They thought Mr P had a responsibility to manage his account and 
understand what payments were being taken. They thought if the payment was taken 
without authorisation, Mr P wouldve contacted them sooner. And they explained only 
unauthorised payments were covered under the guarantee, not claims for payments where a 
service had been provided. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr P remained unhappy with this, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the upset the 
complaint had caused Mr P. And he understood why Mr P felt the payments should be 
refunded. But he explained the letter from Trading Standards provided two different 
situations. One where the payments were taken without authorisation and one where they 
had been authorised, but the service hadnt been provided. He explained only the payments 
taken without authorisation were covered by the Direct Debit Guarantee. And he didnt think 
he had enough evidence to say for certain which category Mr Ps claim fell into. Because of 
this, he didnt think it would be fair for him to say BOS acted unfairly when rejecting the 
claim. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He explained a large majority of those affected in his local area had been 
refunded the payments theyd made, and he didnt think it was fair that he hadnt been. He 
explained he was unable to provide evidence to show the payment was unauthorised and 
thought asking for evidence to show this was an unreasonable request. He maintained his 
view that he hadnt authorised the payments and that Trading Standards had confirmed hed 
been the victim of fraud. So, he wanted a refund of the payments he made plus 
compensation for the time and calls hed made to BOS to rectify the situation. As Mr P didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. Its not in doubt that Mr 
P made payments to a company that Trading Standards has found to be a possible scam. 
So, I can understand why Mr P feels frustrated and upset that he hasnt been provided a 
refund for these. But this alone doesnt mean BOS had a responsibility to refund the 
payments Mr P made under the Direct Debit Guarantee. For me to say BOS have done 
something wrong, Id need to see they failed to operate within the terms of the Direct Debit 
Guarantee when rejecting Mr Ps DDI claim. Or, that they acted unfairly by doing so. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the letter Trading Standards sent to Mr P, notifying him of their investigation into 
the company Mr P was making direct debit payments towards. It explained that there were 
two possible scenarios. The first was that the company had been taking unauthorised 
payments from Mr Ps bank account. The second was that Mr P may have authorised the 
payments for a call blocking service, but that this service hadnt been provided. Mr P made 
his DDI claim saying the payments had been taken without authorisation.
The Direct Debit Guarantee covers DDI claims for unauthorised payments. But it doesnt 
cover payments that were authorised but where the service wasnt provided. 
Ive seen BOS rejected Mr Ps DDI claim due to the length of time Mr P took to raise it. So, 
Ive thought about whether this falls within the Direct Debit Guarantee terms, and whether it 
was fair to do so.
Ive seen Mr Ps account was debited £21.99 on 14 occasions, between May 2018 and June 
2019. Ive seen no evidence to show Mr P disputed any of these transactions until he 
received a letter in April 2020. Had this been an unauthorised transaction that Mr P didnt 
agree for a company to take, I wouldve expected Mr P to query this with BOS at the time the 
first payments were taken. And I cant see that he did. While I recognise Mr Ps testimony 
that he didnt realise the payments were being taken from his account, I dont think its 
unreasonable for BOS to assume a customer would monitor his accounts and the payments 
that go in and out of it. 
As they payments were taken over a period of more than a year, and Mr P raised no 
concerns about this, I think its reasonable for BOS to assume that the payments themselves 
were authorised. So, I think it was fair for BOS to assess Mr Ps DDI claim on the basis that he fell into the second option outlined in Trading Standards letter which stated some 
customers authorised the Direct Debit but didnt receive the service.
And the Direct Debit Guarantee terms are clear in saying claims of this nature falls outside of 
its scope. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say BOS acted outside of 
the guarantee when rejecting the claim or acted unfairly when doing so. So, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say they should refund Mr P the payments he made and for this 
reason, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was looking for. And I have considered his 
argument that its unreasonable to ask him to provide evidence to show the direct debit was 
unauthorised. And Ive also considered his argument that the letter from Trading Standards 
should be enough. But this letter doesnt confirm which category Mr P fell into. Without 
anything else to consider, Ive had to make my decision based on Mr Ps testimony against 
his actual handling of his account. And I dont think Im able to say for certain that Mr P didnt 
authorise the transactions as he allowed these to be taken from his account for an extended 
period of time without raising any objections. This isnt the actions Id expect a customer to 
take if money was being taken from their account without their knowledge. Because of this, I 
cant say BOS acted unfairly by taking the same stance when rejecting his DDI claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman