DRN-4408621
The complaint
Mr L complains about how the AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (The AA) 
handled the original decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a final decision from our service, the AA was directed to replace Mr Ls shed roof, 
that had been damaged due to a storm. 
Mr L said that his contractor assessed the shed and found that the main structure was 
damaged beyond repair. So, Mr L contacted the AA as he believed that FOS had directed it 
to replace the entire shed. 
The AA said that as FOS had only directed it to replace the shed roof, it would do so. It said 
that to replace the entire shed, went against the FOS decision and would amount to 
betterment. 
The AA maintained its position in its final response, and as Mr L had been given his referral 
rights, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said the AA declined to cover the full cost of the shed, as they felt the new quotation 
amounted to betterment and differed to the original ruling made by FOS. She agreed that the 
AA had acted fairly, so there wasnt anything further she could reasonably ask it to do. 
The AA accepted the view, Mr L did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr L, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether the AA handled the original FOS decision fairly. 
Mr L has provided a report and invoice from his contractor. In the report it states that the 
shed is beyond repair. But, apart from this, there is no information as to whether the 
damaged caused to the structure of the shed, was as a result of an insured peril, such as a 
storm. 
The AA said that the shed structure was damaged due to wear and tear. I have been 
provided with images of the shed and having reviewed those images, I think they do show 
that the shed wasnt in a good state of repair. And Id agree that the shed was suffering from 
wear and tear. 
Ive also reviewed the original FOS decision and I can see that the AA was directed to: 
settle Mr Ls shed roof claim in line with the remaining policy terms. The AA confirmed that 
it had made a settlement offer for the cost of the shed roof to Mr L. 
I note that the quote that Mr L relied upon was for the supply of a new shed and concrete 
base. Im satisfied that this wasnt the decision made by FOS originally. The decision 
regarding the shed, was for the AA to replace the shed roof only. Consequently, I think that 
the AA was reasonable, not to agree to replace the entire shed. I agree that this wouldve 
gone against the FOS decision and would therefore amount to betterment. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, (and I can appreciate that this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mr L) but I wont be asking the AA to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman