DRN-1904264
The complaint
Mr B  on behalf of Company G  complains that Xbridge Limited trading as Simply 
Business (SB) mis-sold him a directors and officers liability policy which has left him 
exposed to legal action.
What happened
Mr B is a director of Company G. He was contacted by SB (an insurance broker) on 
1 August 2019 in relation to insurance quotes he had received online. He explained the 
nature of his business and that he was looking to insure against any action that could be 
brought against the directors and officers of his company (D&O cover). He was told that 
this type of situation would be covered under the insurance he was taking out through SB, 
and the sale of the policy was subsequently finalised on 22 August 2019.
Understanding this type of cover to be in place, Mr B contacted SB on 3 October 2019 to 
notify them of his intent to make a claim under the policy because a former director had 
since brought legal proceedings against him and the other company directors for 
defamation. But he was unhappy to learn that the policy sold to him by SB did not actually 
include D&O cover, so he raised a complaint as he considered the policy to have been mis-
sold and said that SB should now cover his legal costs that would have otherwise been 
covered under such a policy.
SB acknowledged that the advisor who sold the policy to Mr B was inexperienced and failed 
to address various remarks he made when discussing his company and the cover he 
required. SB said they did not actually sell D&O cover but agreed the policy had been mis-
sold, so they offered to cancel it from its inception and provide a full refund. But Mr B was 
not satisfied with this resolution as he said it still left him without any recourse to defend the 
defamation claim being brought against the company, which he said would be proceeding to 
court. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint as he was satisfied that Mr B would have taken out 
an alternative D&O policy elsewhere if he had been properly informed by SBs advisor and 
told that they did not offer such cover. Mr B had provided quotes from alternative D&O 
policies he'd sourced before taking out the policy with SB, which the investigator agreed 
would have likely provided cover for the defamation proceedings now being brought against 
the directors of Company G. So he considered that SB ought to now cover the reasonable 
legal costs Mr B could have recovered if he had taken out a D&O policy from the outset. 
SB accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed to settle the matter in line with 
his findings. But they explained that they were unsure how to calculate the settlement figure 
in these circumstances  given that legal proceedings were still supposedly ongoing and 
may not conclude for some time. They also said they hadnt seen any evidence of what legal 
costs had been incurred by Mr B, or would likely be incurred in the future. So they asked if 
Mr Bs solicitor could provide an estimate of the overall cost of the legal proceedings so they 
could make a one-off payment in full and final settlement.Mr B said his solicitor was not willing to provide any such estimate of costs, and he also said 
he was not happy to accept a settlement on this basis in case his legal costs eventually 
exceeded the amount paid by SB. He also did not accept the idea of waiting until the legal 
proceedings had reached a conclusion as SB may no longer be in a position to meet the 
costs he might later claim. 
After further discussion between the parties, Mr B became open to the idea of accepting a 
settlement figure based on estimated costs. So SB asked him to provide evidence to 
substantiate the costs he had incurred  such as invoices from his solicitor  as well as an 
assessment from his lawyers as to the estimated costs going forwards. But Mr B said he was 
not willing to provide this information, and that he had already demonstrated the extent of the 
legal proceedings being pursued as he had provided the letter before action sent by the 
claimants solicitors. 
Our investigator did not think it was unreasonable for SB to request the documentation they 
had asked for, as it was no less than an insurer would require in order to assess a claim for 
defence costs. As no agreement could be reached, the matter was escalated to me to 
determine how the redress ought to be established in these circumstances. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 May 2020. I said I intended 
upholding the complaint, but could only make a corresponding award if Mr B was able to 
substantiate Company G's losses. I set out the following findings:
Following the investigators view, SB have agreed to cover Mr Bs reasonable legal costs 
incurred in defending the defamation claim. And I think this is a fair and reasonable offer, 
having considered the mis-sale of the policy by SB and the detriment this has caused Mr B. 
But the parties have not been able to agree on how this redress should be calculated and 
what it ought to consist of. 
Given that SB are effectively stepping into the position of an insurer in this matter, I dont 
think it is unreasonable for them to expect documentary evidence that demonstrates what 
costs Mr B has so far incurred in defending the defamation claim. And neither do I think it is 
unreasonable for them to ask to be kept updated as to the progress of the legal proceedings. 
An insurer would not be expected to make payment in these circumstances without first 
receiving evidence of the costs incurred, so neither do I expect SB to have to make any 
payment without Mr B first substantiating his losses. 
So far, Mr B has not provided any evidence of the costs he has incurred. And I do not 
consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to make an award in the absence of any 
such evidence. So I will therefore allow Mr B until the deadline set at the beginning of my 
provisional decision to provide this service with evidence of the total legal costs he has 
incurred to date in relation to the defamation proceedings  such as the invoices received 
from his solicitor (or alternatively, his solicitor could issue an up to date summary of the total 
costs incurred to date). If Mr B is able to sufficiently substantiate his losses by the deadline 
provided, I will then be in a position to make a corresponding award (provided such costs 
were reasonably incurred).
In terms of the potential future legal costs that may be result from the defamation claim, I do 
not consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask SB to make a payment at this 
point, as such an award would be purely speculative in nature. I appreciate Mr B considers 
that the claim will result in court action. But its not possible to accurately predict the course 
of such legal action  particularly a defamation claim  as it's not easy to establish a 
successful claim under this tort since the introduction of the Defamation Act 2013. So it may 
be the case that the claimants solicitors eventually advise him that his claim has very little 
prospects of success, for example, such that it never even reaches the stage of court proceedings. So I do not intend to make an award for future losses which have not yet 
crystallised and may never actually materialise.  
However, if in future Mr B does incur further costs, he can then present these costs with 
sufficient corresponding evidence for SB to consider. And if there is any dispute about the 
future costs SB ought to cover, he can then make another complaint and refer the matter 
back to this service to consider at that point (as a new complaint). But given that Mr Bs 
present complaint is somewhat premature in this respect (as the full extent of his losses are 
still unknown) it would be prudent for him to wait until the legal proceedings have reached a 
conclusion before claiming any further costs. 
I also note that Mr B has enquired as to whether SB have notified their professional 
indemnity insurer of the claim he is making against them. But these are matters for SB alone 
and do not concern Mr B, so I do not consider it necessary for them to provide details of any 
claims they may or may not make with their own insurers in relation to this matter. 
I invited Mr B to provide a summary of the total legal costs Company G had incurred 
defending the defamation claim to date  along with corresponding evidence. But I said 
I did not intend making any award in respect of this complaint if Mr B failed to provide any 
such evidence by the deadline provided. 
SB accepted my proposals. Mr B responded saying that he rejected my findings, and said he 
did not intend to provide any further evidence or information that he had already. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr B disagrees with my findings, as he still considers that he is due a cash 
settlement. But in response to my provisional decision, he has not put forwards any 
substantive or persuasive reasons as to why SB should make such a settlement without him 
having to show that he has suffered a financial loss. 
So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out previously in my provisional 
decision. And given that Mr B has been unable to substantiate Company G's losses, I will 
not be making any corresponding award for the reasons given above.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint but make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B  on behalf 
of Company G  to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman