DRN-2727404
The complaint
Mr G complains his car insurance company, Southern Rock Insurance Company, has 
recorded an incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) that it 
shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr G had a commercial car insurance policy with Southern Rock.
In November 2018, Mr G drove by car to an event and parked his car while he attended it. 
When he got back to where he thought hed left his car, it wasnt there. He asked the police 
and local traffic wardens for help but they couldnt find it either, despite many hours of 
searching that day and the next.
A couple of days later, Mr G notified Southern Rock his car may have been stolen. But he 
also told Southern Rock he didnt want to make a claim. 
A few days after that, Mr G says his car was found where hed originally parked it  so he 
says it hadnt been stolen at all. Shortly after that, Southern Rock were also told by the 
police the car had been found.
Southern Rock recorded this incident on CUE as a notification only event, describing it as 
Theft recovered. The incident was closed when the car was found. 
Mr G found out about this record a couple of years later, when a new insurer increased his 
premium because of a claim it said he hadnt told it about. The claim was the November 
2018 incident.
Mr G says his car wasnt stolen and so any record of it should be removed from CUE. 
Southern Rock says its satisfied the circumstances of the incident were recorded correctly 
on CUE for notification purposes only, with Mr Gs no claims bonus allowed and no 
payments having been made (because Mr G didnt claim).
When Mr G brought his complaint to us, the investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. She 
said she couldnt fairly ask Southern Rock to remove this incident from CUE because she 
was satisfied it was correctly recorded.
Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Although my decision will 
disappoint Mr G, I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why I dont 
think Southern Rock has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr G has described the background to the incident. He was coming to the centre of a city for 
a major event. He was late, so was hurrying and didnt pay much attention to where he 
parked. 
When he returned to where he thought hed parked, his car wasnt there. He contacted both 
the police and local traffic wardens for help locating his car, and even stayed in the city 
overnight, but the car remained missing even after the search continued the next day. Mr G 
says it wasnt until later in the week, when his car was found, that he realised he (and the 
police and wardens) had been looking in the wrong place for it.
I should start by saying I think Mr G did the right thing by notifying Southern Rock a few days 
afterwards that his car may have been stolen. This is something he was required to do under 
the terms and conditions of his car insurance policy.
Mr Gs says it turned out his car wasnt stolen  it simply wasnt where he thought hed 
parked it. But Mr G notified Southern Rock of a possible theft when the car had been missing 
for around three days. The call handler he spoke to logged the incident as a theft notification. 
I think this was the correct thing to do  Mr G had reported his car was missing (although he 
had also said he wasnt sure if he wanted to make a claim). Around 10 days after the car had 
gone missing, the police sent Southern Rock a notice saying the car, which it describes as 
having been reported as stolen, had been recovered and removed to a police pound.
If an insurer is signed up to CUE, itll make a record of any incident its made aware of, 
whether or not it leads to a claim. Southern Rock has shown us the CUE record of Mr Gs 
incident. It describes it as notification only and theft recovered and also says Mr Gs no 
claims discount hasnt been affected. I think this accurately records events as they were 
notified to Southern Rock, both by Mr G and, later, by the police. Southern Rock closed the 
incident when Mr Gs car was found. In these circumstances, I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable of Southern Rock to record the incident on CUE as it has. 
I understand Mr G has resolved the issue he had with his new insurer, which had treated this 
notification as an undisclosed claim. But, just to be clear, this isnt something Ive looked at 
as part of Mr Gs complaint about Southern Rocks recording of his incident on CUE.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman