DRN-3566121
The complaint
Mr H complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly applied 
end of contract charges following the end of his car hire agreement. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr H entered into a 24 month hire agreement with MBFS for a new car. 
In October 2020, the contract was extended by three months meaning it came to an end on 
26 December 2020.
Mr H said at the time of extending the agreement, he was told the car would be collected on 
26 December 2020. However when this day came, the car wasnt collected. On 13 January 
2021, MBFS sent correspondence to Mr H saying as the agreement had come to an end, he 
needed to arrange collection of the car urgently and no later than 19 January 2021. Mr H 
said at the time of this correspondence, he was ill with Covid-19 so he was unable to deal 
with it at the time. The car was eventually collected on 26 January 2021.
In line with MBFS returns procedure, the car was inspected. Damage was found to the 
wheels, bumper and taillight. MBFS said Mr H had to pay £702 for the damage. They also 
said as the car wasnt returned until 26 January 2021, Mr H had to pay £353 for 30 extra 
days hire as he had use of the car during that time. Meaning he was required to pay a total 
of £1,056 in end of contract charges. Mr H complained. He also commented he had only 
travelled around 10,000 miles but he was permitted to travel 20,000 so that should be taken 
into account. 
MBFS said the end of contract charges had been applied correctly. In relation to the car 
being returned under the permitted mileage, they said that was Mr Hs decision to do so. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr H referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator initially recommended the case was partially upheld. They believed the 
damage charges had been applied fairly but felt the extra days hire should be charged from 
19 January 2021 (which was the deadline given for Mr H to arrange a collection) up to when 
it was collected on 26 January 2021. Mr H disagreed. He said it was MBFS responsibility to 
arrange for the car to be collected and they had told him it would be collected on 26 
December 2020. He maintained his position on the damage charges and added that he 
thought they were excessive. The investigator requested a copies of the call between Mr H 
and MBFS when the agreement was extended but MBFS was unable to find it based on the 
telephone numbers provided by Mr H. 
MBFS said their collection agents had contacted Mr H on 13 January 2021 and stressed the 
car needed to be returned. They said as this didnt happen and he still had use of it, they 
were entitled to charge for it. 
In light of the above evidence, the investigator changed their opinion and said MBFS had 
acted fairly. They said the extra days hire was an accurate reflection of the hire of the car 
and Mr H shouldnt benefit from free use of it.  
In June 2020, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intention to partially uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I said:
Collection of the car
Both parties accept the agreement was extended by three months, ending on 26 December 
2020. That isnt in dispute. I note Mr H comments that he was told the car would be collected 
on 26 December 2020 but he thought that was strange given it was a public holiday. 
Unfortunately this call recording isnt available and having considered MBFS contact notes, 
there is no indication of what was said. On balance given 26 December 2020 was a UK 
public holiday, Im not persuaded MBFS wouldve said the car would be collected on that 
day. I find its most likely they confirmed that was the date the agreement ended and the car 
would need to be returned thereafter.
Mr H has told our service that he was ill with Covid-19 in January 2021 and he was unable to 
deal with the collection. Having reviewed MBFS contact notes, I can see in response to their 
email on 13 January 2021, he said he was expecting the car to be collected although he 
thought 26 December 2020 was strange given it was a public holiday. He said he had 
another car that was delivered in December 2020 so the car in question was sat on his drive. 
He also made it clear to MBFS that he was currently in hospital due to Covid-19 and if his 
brother could arrange collection on his behalf. Its clear from these notes that Mr H was not 
in a position to return the car himself as he was hospitalised and its likely to explain why he 
was unable to answer the calls from MBFS collection agents. Despite this, he made 
alternative arrangements for the car to be collected. For these reasons, I believe its unlikely 
he used the car once the agreement ended so I disagree with MBFS comments that he 
continued to use it. Given the above circumstances, I dont believe its fair for MBFS to 
charge Mr H for extra days hire, I find this should be removed from the outstanding balance. 
Damage charges
Ive reviewed the terms of the agreement and concerning the return of the car, it says:
You must return the vehicle together with everything supplied with the vehicle to us at your 
own expense (in accordance with the Vehicle Return Standards). If you fail to take 
reasonable care of the vehicle you will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or refurbishing 
the vehicle.
MBFS has provided a copy of their return standards which sets out what is considered 
acceptable and unacceptable damage. In addition to this, Ive considered the guidance of 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess 
damage when new cars have been returned as part of a car finance agreement. In this case, 
the car was new when Mr H hired it so I believe its fair to also take this guidance into 
account.
MBFS have applied the following charges for damages:
1 Wheel LHF Rim damaged £110
2 Wheel LHR Rim damaged £110
3 Wheel RHF Rim damaged £110
4 Bumper Scratched £210
5 Lamp RHR Broken £162
Total £702
WheelsThe inspection report indicates there were scuff marks on three of the four wheels. The 
BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are 
acceptable. MBFS return standards say scuff marks up to 25mm are acceptable.  Having 
reviewed the photographs, I can see there are scuff marks on all three wheels which in my 
opinion are above MBFS and the BVLRAS tolerances. Therefore, Im satisfied this damage 
is beyond fair wear and MBFS are entitled to charge for this.  
Bumper
The inspection report said there was a scratch to the bonnet. MBFS returns standard say 
damage isnt acceptable if Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the 
base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.  The 
BVLRA guidance says Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is 
not showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. Ive seen the pictures of the 
scratch and the measuring tool shown next to it, its clear this scratch is beyond what MBFS 
and the BVLRA would consider to be acceptable. Therefore, I find MBFS are entitled to 
charge for this. 
Lamp RHR 
The inspection says the lamp is broken. Based on MBFS return standards, when the car is 
returned it must be free from broken or damaged items. As its clear the lamp is broken, this 
wouldnt be considered fair wear tear and MBFS are entitled to charge for it. I understand Mr 
H accepts this damage.
I note Mr Hs comments that the car was returned under the permitted mileage of 20,000 
therefore this should be taken into consideration. While I accept the mileage wasnt 
exceeded, there is nothing in the agreement terms that say MBFS must take unused 
mileage into account when applying end of contract charges. So I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong in that respect. 
Taking everything into account, I believe MBFS has acted reasonably when applying the end 
of contract charges for damage and Ive seen nothing to show that the amounts charged are 
excessive or unreasonable. However for the reasons explained above, I dont find its fair for 
them to charge for the extra days hire. 
Response to the provisional decision
MBFS said although they arent in receipt of evidence concerning Mr Hs hospital admission, 
they would agree to remove the charge for the extra days hire. Mr H didnt provide any 
further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the charge 
for the extra days hire. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman