DRN-4175766
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc cant find a savings account he held previously with 
Bradford & Bingley (B&B) and wont pay him the balance of that account.  
Mr W is represented by a family member, but as its his account Ill only refer to him. 
What happened
Mr W found an old passbook for a savings account hed held with B&B. The last update in 
the passbook was March 2008. Mr W contacted Santander in September 2022 to ask for the 
funds from the account. 
Santander said their records showed the B&B account was transferred to Santander. This 
account was closed in February 2011, when the balance was moved to another Santander 
account. This Santander account was later closed in February 2014 and the final balance 
was paid. 
Mr W was unhappy with this as he was sure hed never asked for the account to be closed, 
had never received the balance of the account and was concerned someone had 
fraudulently withdrawn the funds. So he complained. 
Santander responded to say, because of the amount of time that had passed, theyd already 
given Mr W all the information they held about his account. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint. He said, in summary, he was satisfied 
Santanders records showed what they had already told Mr W, namely that his account was 
closed in February 2014 and the balance was paid at that time. 
Mr W didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he is certain he has not received the 
money from this account. And that a further £5,000 had been paid in which, he says, was not 
paid in by him. Mr W also said he had no idea the account was even with Santander until 
September 2022. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided evidence that he held an account with B&B. The passbook hes provided 
shows when it was last updated in March 2008 the balance was about £2,300. 
Mr W is adamant he did not close the account and did not receive the balance of the account 
 hes provided current account statements to show no corresponding amount being 
received in February and March 2014. Mr W is so certain because he says he has complete 
records of his finances going back to 1964  so, if he had closed it himself and received the 
money, he would have a record of it. Mr W has also told us the only record he has of the 
B&B account is the passbook. 
The existence of the passbook alone isnt evidence that the account wasnt closed or wasnt 
closed by Mr W or with his permission as the passbook wasnt necessarily required to make 
transactions on the account. So what Id expect Santander to do in these circumstances was 
undertake the appropriate searches for Mr Ws account. Based on the information theyve 
provided, Im satisfied theyve done so here. 
Santanders records show the original account that transferred from B&B to them was closed 
in February 2011, with the balance being transferred to another Santander account.
 
This Santander account was then closed, with a balance of about £7,500, in February 2014. 
Mr W is concerned that Santander havent provided information to show where the balance 
of the account was paid to, or how the account was closed. But I dont find this is surprising 
given the account was closed nine years ago. Santander are only obliged to keep 
information for six years, so while I understand Mr Ws concern, theyve not made a mistake 
by only having limited information available.
 
Mr W also wanted to know where the additional £5,000 had come from, as he doesnt think 
he paid this into the account either. He believes someone might have credited the account 
with the £5,000 as a precursor to then fraudulently withdrawing the funds. But again, 
because of the time thats now passed, Santander cant provide anything further about this. 
I accept that Mr W has no record of the closure and can show he didnt receive the money 
into the account hes provided statements for. But this doesnt mean Santander have made a 
mistake. Ive already explained that Im satisfied Santander has done what Id expect to 
locate Mr Ws account. Theyve also explained that the closure and any transfer or 
withdrawal of the money wouldve been subject to security checks. So Ive not seen 
anything, beyond Mr Ws assertion, that the account was closed without his permission.
 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Ive found Santander have treated Mr W fairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman