DRN-3675236
The complaint
Mr W complained that BISL Limited trading as Dial Direct (Dial Direct) mis-sold him a motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W said as follows. Dial Direct didnt tell him that his policy had a £900 excess. This was 
too high and if theyd told him beforehand, he wouldnt have taken it out. He only found out 
some months after that. He thought it made the policy unfair and it would affect the overall 
cost to him if he wanted to make a claim. He wanted Dial Direct to compensate him. 
Dial Direct didnt agree. They said theyd told Mr W about the policy excess in two calls 
before he bought the policy, and in the policy wording theyd sent to him. 
The investigator didnt think that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that Dial Direct 
had acted fairly as they had clearly informed him about the policy excess. Mr W didnt agree 
and so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is unhappy with other aspects of Dial Directs service but, as they are to be dealt with 
as a separate complaint, I wont comment on them here. 
Mr W said Dial Direct hadnt told him about the £900 total policy excess, and hed thought it 
was only £250. Ive listened to the recordings of the calls Mr W had with Dial Direct before 
he took out the policy. In the first call Dial Directs adviser gave him a quote for adding a car 
to his existing policy. The adviser said that the policy excess was £900 including a £250 
voluntary element. She told him the policy documents would be available online and he 
should check them. 
In a later call, Mr W bought the policy. That adviser too said that the policy excess was £900 
with a £250 voluntary element. So Im satisfied that Dial Direct made clear to Mr W before he 
bought the policy that the total excess was £900. 
Dial Direct did then make the policy documents available to Mr W and he accepts that he got 
those documents. Ive looked at what those say. The statement of insurance on page 14 
says that a voluntary excess of £250 applies, that additional excess may apply and that the 
statement should be read in conjunction with the insurance schedule and certificate. The 
insurance schedule on page 15 clearly sets out that the total excess is £900. 
Mr W said that he might not have read any further than page 14 of the statement of 
insurance and Dial Direct should have put all of the excess information on the same page. 
But I think that their communication was clear, and we take the view that its a policyholders 
responsibility to read and check their policy documents and ensure they are suitable. 
If Mr W had read the documents and decided that he did not want a policy with that excess 
he could have contacted Dial Direct about it then or could have cancelled his policy and 
sought alternative insurance. But he didnt do that. I can see that Mr W has found the 
situation frustrating, and he also thinks that the excess was unreasonably high. But we think 
that the setting of an excess amount is a commercial issue for an insurer and thats not 
something we would generally interfere with.
I think that told Mr W about the policy excess in both calls and also detailed it in the policy 
documents, and that their communication with him has been clear. So I dont think that they 
have done anything wrong here, and I dont ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
