DRN-2850651
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Metro Bank PLC wont refund money he was tricked into transferring to a 
fraudster. 
  
What happened
Mr G was the victim of an investment scam. He watched a promotional video on a popular 
online video platform and then, after filling out some personal details, he was contacted by 
someone claiming to be able to help him invest money. They showed him a website and 
trading platform  which he says seemed to mimic the movements of the actual stock 
market. 
Mr G was persuaded to invest his money. Beginning in February 2020, he made several 
substantial payments from accounts held at other financial businesses to account details 
provided by the fraudster. Mr G appeared to be making a healthy profit and was encouraged 
to invest more and more.  
His last payment to the fraudsters, and the subject of this complaint, was a £5,000 payment 
made on 13 May 2020. Mr G spoke briefly to Metro to confirm he was making the payment 
before it was released. By this point Mr G had already invested over £100,000, appeared to 
be making a healthy profit and had already received some returns from his investment. 
Though Mr G was able to view the progress of his investments through the trading platform, 
he says he never placed any trades himself. 
Mr G introduced several friends to the scheme but when his sister spoke to the fraudster she 
wasnt convinced by their explanation of how the apparent profits were being made. After 
hearing her concerns, Mr G tried to withdraw his money from the trading account but was 
unable to  seemingly confirming his sisters suspicions that Mr G had been the victim of 
fraud. He reported the matter to Metro on 4 June 2020. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro said it hadnt provided an 
Effective Warning (a requirement under the Code) but also thought Mr G hadnt made the 
payments with a reasonable belief that the recipient was legitimate, so it only refunded half 
his loss.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
upheld his complaint. They were persuaded Mr G did have a reasonable basis for believing 
the payments to be genuine  pointing to the professional looking website and investment 
platform, apparently knowledgeable fraudster and that, by the time the Metro payment was 
made, hed seemingly already received a return on his investment.
Metro disagreed. In summary, it said:
- Mr G failed to check the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website to see if the firm 
was genuine, didnt seek any independent financial advice and didnt carry out any 
research
- There are a number of reports, easily accessible online, which would have shown 
that the trading platform was likely a scam
- The informal way in which the fraudster marketed their services and communicated 
with Mr G ought to have given him concerns 
- He made no attempt to verify the identity of either broker he spoke to
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Metros representations about whether Mr G had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine, but they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr G failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Metro to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Its clear that Mr G did believe that the fraudsters were genuine. He not only invested 
significant sums himself, but also encouraged several friends and his sister to do the same. 
But I need to consider whether that belief was reasonable. In doing so, Ive taken into 
account the sophistication of the scam and the characteristics of Mr G.
And I think those characteristics are relevant here  Mr G appears to be a novice investor 
with little experience of investing, let alone complex trading. I can understand why, without 
this knowledge, he may have failed to recognise some of the more concerning aspects of 
what he was being offered.
The scam, though common, had a high degree of sophistication. While little can be found of 
the trading platform online with online videos having been removed and websites taken 
down, Ive seen the one or two screenshots Mr G has provided of the trading platform and 
these appear convincing. Thats not entirely surprising, as its my understanding that the 
trading software itself may be genuine, but simply controlled by the fraudsters. 
Ive also reviewed the correspondence between Mr G and the fraudsters. On the whole, it 
looks professional  with emails coming from the fraudsters own email domain. The 
customer verification process that Mr G was taken through would also, I think, add an air of 
legitimacy to the fraudsters. I disagree that the use of a popular messaging service was 
necessarily a red flag here  its an increasingly common way for businesses to 
communicate and doesnt strike me as unusual in the context of a relationship with an 
individual broker. Its also important to state that correspondence did not start on the 
messaging service and nor was it exclusively on that platform. 
Its also relevant that, by the time he made the £5,000 payment, hed seemingly already 
received a return on his investment with the fraudsters appearing to make a modest 
payment of about £600 into his account at another financial business. If he did have 
concerns before this payment was received, then I can see why receiving some money back 
would have reassured him.
While Mr G might have taken independent financial advice before going ahead with the 
investment, I dont think his failure to do so means he lacked a reasonable basis for belief. The crux of Metros argument is that Mr G could have found out that the trading platform was 
a scam by searching for it online or checking with the FCA (a warning about the fraudsters 
existed at the time). While Mr G accepts he didnt check the FCA website, his understanding 
of the role of the FCA appears limited.  But hes said he did look at reviews online before 
going ahead with the payments. He acknowledges that some of the reviews were very 
negative, but he rationalised this as being typical of any business of significant size  there 
were always going to be negative reviews from unhappy customers. He explains that he 
found the website and the fraudsters more persuasive than the reviews he saw. 
Ive thought about this carefully, taking into account both Mr Gs characteristics and the fact 
that the payment from his Metro account was made after he received an apparent return, 
and Ive concluded that Mr Gs decision to make the payment was reasonable, despite 
reading the negative reviews. At the time it was made, I think that any earlier concerns he 
may have had about the legitimacy of the platform would have been allayed, not just by the 
tangible return hed received, but by his ability to access a very convincing trading platform 
and monitor his investments. 
Overall, while I accept this is a finely balanced matter and that Mr G could have taken further 
steps to establish the legitimacy of the trading platform and the identity of the brokers, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I think he did hold a reasonable belief that the recipient of the 
payment was legitimate.
Though it appears the money Mr G sent did come from another of his accounts, its unclear 
whether it would have remained in that account had the fraud not taken place or how the 
money might have been used, so I think that interest at 8% simple per annum is fair here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC and instruct it to:
- Refund the remaining 50% of Mr Gs loss - £2,500; and
- Pay interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date it declined his claim under the 
CRM to the date of settlement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman