DRN-4418159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Euroins AD (Euroins) declined their travel insurance claim. 
Mrs B is the lead complainant on this complaint and while the policy is joint with Mr B, I will 
refer to Mrs B in this decision for the most part.
Any reference to Euroins includes all its agents.
What happened
On 2 June 2022, Mr and Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy. Euroins is the 
underwriter on the policy. 
The policy started on 6 August 2022 and expired on 5 August 2023.
They were due to go on their trip on 6 August 2022 for 14 days. Mrs B unfortunately fell ill. 
She was hospitalised from 15 July 2022 to 19 July 2022. The consultant recommended 
Mrs B not to travel and Mrs B spoke to her GP too on a number of occasions before the trip. 
On the day she was due to depart, as her GP said she was unfit to travel, Mrs B decided not 
to go ahead. She submitted her claim form to Euroins, after having asked her GP to 
complete the medical information required on the form.
Mr and Mrs B were due to get married on the first week of their trip and were to stay on for 
their honeymoon in the second week. The flights and accommodation were booked 
separately. The rest of the group went on with their travel plans but Mrs B didnt travel  her 
claim to Euroins was for the cost of her flight and her portion of the accommodation.  
Euroins considered her claim but declined it. It said there was no cover for Mrs B under her 
travel policy as the illness happened before the start date of the policy. This is because 
cover under an annual travel insurance policy starts from the date the policy starts. 
Unhappy with Euroins, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. She said Mrs B has no cover under her policy for the cost of 
cancelling her trip. She said a start date of 6 August 2022 was selected and therefore cover 
only starts on the policy from that date. 
Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said she 
wasnt aware that cover would only be available from the date the policy started as that was 
never made clear to her. 
Mrs B also said she did not officially cancel the holiday but was just unable to travel on the 
date based on medical advice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance policy 
as this forms the basis of their contract with Euroins. 
Page 4 of your policy document, under the section Trip Duration Limits states the start and 
finish dates of the trip must fall within the 12 months period shown of your certificate of 
insurance. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs policy certificate. They took out an annual multi-trip travel 
insurance policy and the start date shows as 6 August 2022. I can see the policy was taken 
out on 2 June 2022, but cover didnt start until the day they were due to go on their trip. 
Based on the above information, there is no cover on the policy for the costs Mrs B is 
claiming for. Mrs B fell ill and was hospitalised in July 2022, prior to the departure date, and 
because the policy didnt start until 6 August 2022, Im satisfied there is no cover available in 
the circumstances of what happened. 
Mrs B says she didnt officially cancel the holiday, other members of the party went ahead on 
the trip, and she was told by her GP that she was unfit to travel on the day of the trip. I 
understand but the crux of the matter is that she fell ill before the policy started and therefore 
at this point in July 2022, there was no cover on the policy. So, whether she officially 
cancelled the bookings for the flight and accommodation isnt in question because either way 
she is claiming for the costs shes incurred for not going on the trip. She has herself 
cancelled going on the trip because of her health.
Annual travel insurance policies start on the date that the consumer chooses to start the 
policy not on the date the policy is bought. Mrs B chose the start date as 6 August 2022. 
This means theres no cancellation cover in place for any insured event that takes place 
before the period of cover starts. 
Mrs B has said the travel provider didnt make it clear that they had no cover until the date 
the policy started. I acknowledge this and if she remains concerned on this point, she should 
make a separate complaint to the travel provider as she took out the travel policy with them. 
This isnt the responsibility of Euroins. 
Overall, I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but Im not persuaded the claim is 
covered under the terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think Euroins has treated 
them unfairly. As such, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask Euroins to accept Mrs Bs claim. It follows that I dont require Euroins to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Euroins AD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Nimisha RadiaOmbudsman