DRN-4457749
The complaint
Dr S and Mr S complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy following a flood.
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
While the policy is in both names, for ease, I have referred to Mr S throughout the decision 
since hes the one who brought the complaint to this service. 
What happened
Dr S and Mr S had a home insurance policy with Aviva that covered their buildings. 
In February 2021 there was a flood from a burst pipe in the loft of their house. Mr S says he 
was told to move out so the necessary drying work and repairs could be carried out, and it 
would be ready to be decorated in June. 
Mr S says the repairs to the damage caused by the leak took an excessive amount of time to 
complete, which meant 12 promised completion dates were missed and the sale of the 
property had to be delayed. They were told to move out by June 2021 so the work could be 
completed by September 2021 and if this wasnt possible, there was no guarantee the work 
would be completed on time. 
Mr S was provided with a number of completion dates from September 2021 to August 2022 
but they were all missed. In August 2022 they were asked to attend a sign off and hand back 
meeting but the work wasnt finished.
Mr S says the quality of the work was disappointing given the work was meant to return the 
property to market readiness, as it had been prior to the damage. 
Mr S wasnt happy so he complained. Aviva hadnt completed its investigation into the 
complaint before Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He wants Aviva to purchase the 
house at the full market price at the height of the market. He wants Aviva to pay 
compensation for the additional costs incurred in having to move out of the house, and a 
sum to apologise for whats happened. He thinks Aviva should pay each family member a 
sum for the stress, anxiety, and upset caused. Mr S also wants Aviva to reimburse him for 
the additional costs of gas, electricity, council tax, moving at short notice, mortgage for the 
other property, and travel expenses.
Our investigator looked into things for him. She made it clear she was only able to consider 
the complaint up to 21 September 2022 and anything after this date would be subject to a 
new complaint. Our investigator said she didnt think Aviva had treated Mr S fairly due to the 
delays over the course of the claim. She recommended Mr S be paid £800 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused. She referred to the exclusion within the policy that 
doesnt provide cover for loss in value of the property. The investigator also agreed Aviva 
should pay the utility costs for the period the house was unoccupied, and those used by the 
contractors, once Mr S provides evidence of the increase to Aviva. Finally, the investigator 
didnt agree that Aviva should pay towards the cost of the mortgage. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said they were into their third year of the claim and the work was still 
not complete. He said he moved out and purchased the other property since he needed to 
leave the family house due to the leak. Because Mr S didnt agree the complaint came to me 
to decide. 
My provisional decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint  and for much of the same reasons given by the 
investigator. Ive explained my rationale below, but before I do I want to acknowledge that 
Ive summarised events in my own words and in far less detail than whats been provided to 
me. If Ive not mentioned anything its not because I havent considered it  Ive carefully 
reviewed the evidence submitted by both parties. Instead Ive focussed on the key elements 
of the timeline, and what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  in line with our remit as 
a quick and informal alternative to the courts. No discourtesy is meant by that, nor is it my 
intention to minimise in any way what Mr S and his family went through. 
A claim of this nature, where restoration works were required to almost every room in the 
house, was always likely to be a very disruptive and stressful experience for Mr S. Ultimately 
the leak resulted in the conditions that gave rise to the claim. But Ive had to decide what 
impact Aviva has caused over and above what might reasonably be expected, through its 
case handling. 
Timescales for repair
The repairs took longer than originally anticipated  there is no dispute about that. There are 
various reasons for this including the issues faced by the construction industry during and 
after covid, delays with the asbestos survey and work, and some private work Mr S had 
commissioned. Since there is no dispute the work took longer than originally thought its not 
my intention to comment on this point further. I have discussed compensation in respect of 
the delays below. 
Alternative accommodation 
The policy says, if your home cant be lived in because its been damaged by something 
which is insured under your policy, we will pay for the following until its fit to be lived in:
Reasonable additional alternative accommodation costs for you if you live in the 
home.
Aviva said when it became clear Mr S would need to vacate the property in order for the 
work to be completed he and his family had already vacated the house and moved to be 
closer to Dr Ss job  while waiting for the sale of their previous home which was on the 
market. I cant see any reference in the claim notes or elsewhere that Mr S made a request 
for alternative accommodation and can see no evidence that any request was denied by 
Aviva. 
By the time the leak was noted Mr S hadnt been back to the property in over a month and 
had a rota of neighbours going to check on it. So I think Mr S was intending to move house 
in any event. I realise the work to the property went on much longer than anticipated but I 
cant see that Mr S ever made a claim for alternative accommodation. And I cant say Aviva 
has done something wrong if it wasnt given an opportunity to provide any accommodation in 
the first instance. Sale of property 
I am unable to hold Aviva liable for any increase or decrease in the market value of the 
property as a result of the leak. Under general exclusions the policy is clear it doesnt cover 
loss in value. The policy says Aviva wont cover, Loss in value or indirect loss. Loss in 
value, including any loss that is not the direct result of the insured incident (for example if the 
value of an item or the market value of your home reduces because its being repaired).
I havent seen any evidence that a sale for the property had been agreed. Mr S had 
indicated there was an offer of over £900,000 at the time but an offer isnt the same as an 
agreed sale. And in the absence of such evidence of actual loss, Im unable to ask Aviva to 
pay for any perceived shortfall in the value of the property. I am therefore not upholding this 
part of the complaint. 
Compensation 
Details of how we award compensation can be found at the following https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience 
I can see Mr S wants to be compensated for the fuel to get to the property and back, the 
removal and storage costs, his day rate over 20 days when he attended to inspect the 
property, and the shortfall in property value. 
As previously explained I dont agree Aviva are liable for any shortfall in potential sale price, 
or a £500 day rate for Mr S to come to the property to inspect and agree works. I cant hold 
Aviva liable for the family living elsewhere at the time of the incident since they had moved 
there prior to it occurring. 
I have checked to see what Mr S would have been entitled to under the terms of the policy. 
Moving costs and the additional cost of utilities are payable. So I think Aviva should pay for 
these. Mr S should supply Aviva with proof of payment of the moving costs and the 
additional utilities so Aviva can reimburse this part of the claim. 
Our investigator has recommended £800 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive thought carefully about what happened and the impact the 
matter has had on Mr S and his family.  Ive considered our published guidance on making 
awards for distress or inconvenience and taking stock of everything I think £1,250 is the fair 
amount required to put things right. 
Mr S should supply Aviva with proof of payment for anything Ive asked it to pay him back 
for. Any reimbursement payments Ive directed Aviva to make should have 8% simple 
interest yearly applied to them, to compensate Mr S for the time he was deprived of those 
funds. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr S paid them until the date Aviva 
refunds him.  
Conclusion
I think the situation has gone on far too long for what started as a fairly straightforward 
(albeit, large) escape of water claim. The issues meant the claim had been delayed by over 
two years with more weeks of scheduled work remaining.
Mr S says there are other aspects which havent been settled  including the extent of 
Avivas liability for Mr Ss contents, and the snagging issues. I understand they are the 
subject of a separate complaint and therefore I havent discussed them in any detail here. I can see the situation has been distressing for Mr S and his family and caused some 
disruption to their daily life. Mr S has spoken about the considerable impact on his health, his 
family life, and his marriage as a result of the ongoing stress of the claim. Mr S has also 
gone to a lot of effort in attending regular site visits to ensure the necessary work is 
completed, and to an acceptable standard. 
Notwithstanding the above Aviva doesnt have a never-ending liability to Mr S or this claim. 
And so I think it is appropriate now to bring the matter to an end and settle things fairly. I am 
therefore upholding Mr Ss complaint but I realise Mr S wont be entirely satisfied with my 
directions to put things right since Im not requiring Aviva to meet all of Mr Ss outstanding 
claims for recompense. 
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt provide any comments on my provisional decision. Mr S responded with a 
number of questions that related to issues not within the scope of my investigation. He also 
posed some questions regarding issues Ive considered as part of this complaint. No further 
information or evidence was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that Ive received no new evidence or information regarding my provisional 
decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision) Im satisfied 
it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out above Im 
upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
Compensation 
Details of how we award compensation can be found at the following https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience 
I can see Mr S wants to be compensated for the fuel to get to the property and back, the 
removal and storage costs, his day rate over 20 days when he attended to inspect the 
property, and the shortfall in property value. 
As previously explained I dont agree Aviva are liable for any shortfall in potential sale price, 
or a £500 day rate for Mr S to come to the property to inspect and agree works. I cant hold 
Aviva liable for the family living elsewhere at the time of the incident since they had moved 
there prior to it occurring. 
I have checked to see what Mr S would have been entitled to under the terms of the policy. 
Moving costs and the additional cost of utilities are payable. So I think Aviva should pay for 
these. Mr S should supply Aviva with proof of payment of the moving costs and the 
additional utilities so Aviva can reimburse this part of the claim. 
Our investigator has recommended £800 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive thought carefully about what happened and the impact the 
matter has had on Mr S and his family.  Ive considered our published guidance on making awards for distress or inconvenience and taking stock of everything I think £1,250 is the fair 
amount required to put things right. 
Mr S should supply Aviva with proof of payment for anything Ive asked it to pay him back 
for. Any reimbursement payments Ive directed Aviva to make should have 8% simple 
interest yearly applied to them, to compensate Mr S for the time he was deprived of those 
funds. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr S paid them until the date Aviva 
refunds him.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited, and direct the 
insurer to;
On receipt of evidence from Mr S Aviva should reimburse the cost of moving and 
additional utilities, plus 8% simple interest, as Ive directed in my decision above, and 
Pay Mr S and Dr S £1,250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman