DRN-4072027
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money hasnt provided him with 
the service it should have and told him to close his accounts which resulted in him losing out 
on a bonus payment. He wants to be compensated for the losses he has incurred and the 
poor service. 
What happened
On 25 July 2022, Mr K contacted his bank to set up a payment to his Virgin Money account. 
However, this wasnt set up correctly by his bank and he then received a letter from Virgin 
Money to say that his account would be closed with immediate effect. Mr K called Virgin 
Money to say that a mistake had been made by his bank and it wasnt his fault and so he 
shouldnt be held liable for this. He says that Virgin Money should have investigated the 
issue before deciding to close his account.
Mr K says that he then experienced further issues with his account as further transactions 
were held and a transfer limit applied. He says that Virgin Money didnt ever confirm that it 
had reversed its decision to close his account and as his savings accounts were linked to his 
current account (the one Virgin Money had said would be closed) this meant he had to close 
all his accounts. Mr K says this has meant he lost out on interest and a bonus payment on 
his savings account as well as suffering distress, anxiety, inconvenience and 
embarrassment. 
Virgin Money issued a final response letter dated 13 October 2022. It said that it was 
contacted by a bank on 25 July 2022 to say one of its customers had been the victim of 
fraud and that Mr Ks account was the beneficiary. Because of this it restricted Mr Ks 
account and issued an account closure email. On 26 July 2022 the bank contacted it to say 
an error had occurred and so the account restrictions were lifted. It said that it had followed 
its usual procedures in regard to the issue and so didnt uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint. 
Virgin Money said that the daily transfer limit had always been in place on Mr Ks account 
and as there had been no change there was no need to notify him of this. It said its fraud 
system placed seven transfers on-hold for further security checks between 24 July 2022 and 
17 August 2022. It accepted this was frustrating for Mr K but said the system was in place to 
protect customers and it followed the correct process in regard to this.  
Virgin Money did uphold Mr Ks complaint in regard to him being incorrectly told on 15 
August 2022 that his daily transfer limit would be increased when the limit was already set at 
the maximum allowed and in regard to a promised call back that didnt happen. It also 
apologised that Mr K was incorrectly told on a call on 17 August that his accounts were due 
to be closed and for the time Mr K had to wait to speak to an adviser. It also accepted that 
Mr K hadnt been provided with the service he should have while dealing with his complaint. 
Because of these issues it offered to pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
In regard to the closure of Mr Ks accounts Virgin Money said Mr K closed a savings account 
on 15 August 2022, and another savings account on 25 August 2022 and his current 
account was switched to another provider on 1 September 2022. Mr Ks Help-to-Buy ISA 
was closed by Mr K online on 25 August after withdrawing the majority of the balance on 11 
August 2022. It said there was no evidence that Mr K had been forced to close his accounts.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think that Virgin Money 
had done anything wrong taking the action it did on 25 July when it was informed by another 
bank of possible fraudulent activity. He said Mr K was then told the restriction had been lifted 
on his account and Mr K had been using his accounts since that point. He found that it was 
Mr Ks decision to close his accounts and so didnt think Virgin money could be held liable 
for any lost bonus payment. He noted the service issues Mr K had raised and thought the 
compensation of £100 was reasonable for these. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. He said there were calls after the call on 26 
July on which he was told his accounts would be closed. He said the investigator failed to 
address the points that he was able to operate his accounts for 60 days, that Virgin Money 
didnt send a letter reversing its decision to close his accounts and that it didnt investigate 
the fraud allegation before saying it would close his accounts. 
As a resolution to this complaint hasnt been agreed, it has been passed to me an 
ombudsman to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has raised several issues about the service he has received from Virgin Money. While I 
may not have detailed each point he has raised, I can assure Mr K that I have considered all 
the evidence provided to reach my decision.
Account closure notice
Mr K has explained the background to the issues that occurred on 25 July 2022, and I 
understand why he feels it unfair that his account was restricted, and a closure notice issued 
when he hadnt done anything wrong. But as Virgin Money received information from 
another bank about possible fraudulent activity, I do not find it unreasonable that it restricted 
Mr Ks account and issued the closure notice. I understand that Mr K thinks that Virgin 
Money should have investigated before taking action but given the nature of the information 
it received, I find it reasonable that it took immediate action. Virgin Money was then informed 
that a mistake had been made by the ither bank at which point, on 26 July, it lifted the 
restriction on Mr Ks account. 
Ongoing issues with accounts
Mr K has said that following the issue on 25 July, he had transactions stopped and a transfer 
limit applied to his account. Virgin Money said in its final response letter that seven 
transactions were put on hold between 24 July and 17 August. I understand how frustrating 
this must have been for Mr K and I note he explains on the calls he was making transfers to 
his own accounts. However, Virgin Money has explained that the transactions were flagged 
by its security alert systems. These systems are in place to protect customers and while it 
can cause some inconvenience, I cannot say that Virgin Money did anything wrong by 
placing on hold the flagged transactions and releasing these once they had been confirmed 
as genuine.
In regard to the transfer limit, I note Mr K says this was a change to his account, but Virgin Money has said that wasnt the case. I have looked at the account terms and these set out 
the limits on transfers. As there was a transfer limit in place and this was applied in line with 
the account terms, I cannot say that Virgin Money did anything wrong in regard to this or that 
it treated Mr K unfairly.
Account closure
Virgin Money sent Mr K an account closure letter in regard to his current account. Mr K 
contacted Virgin Money and on a call on 26 July he was told the restriction on his account 
had been lifted. He wasnt sent a further letter stating the account was no longer closed, but 
as Mr K was told the restriction had been lifted on the call on 26 July and he acknowledged 
in an email that it had been decided to remove the restriction from his account, I think Mr K 
was aware that his account was no longer restricted or being closed. Mr K continued to use 
his account which further supports him being aware that the account closure had been 
reversed.
I have looked through the contact notes and listened to the calls provided from the time and 
Mr K is clearly frustrated by the service he received from Virgin Money and said that he 
wanted to close his accounts. As well as the account that was the subject of the letter dated 
25 July 2022, Mr K had savings accounts. I cannot find any evidence to show that Mr K was 
sent any correspondence suggesting the savings accounts would be closed. I note Mr Ks 
comments about the savings accounts being linked to his current account but as he was 
made aware this wasnt being closed, I do not find that he had reason to believe his 
accounts were being closed, or needed to be closed. On the calls I have listened to Mr K 
says he wants to close his savings account that is linked to his current account to allow him 
to switch the current account. He also closed his other savings accounts. 
So, while I note Mr K says he felt he had to close his accounts, I do not find evidence that 
Virgin Money can be held liable for this as it appears that Mr K chose to close his accounts. 
Given this I do not find that Virgin Money is required to pay for any lost interest or bonus 
payment on these accounts.
Service issues
Mr K wasnt provided with the service he should have been, and Virgin Money 
acknowledged this. Having looked at the service issues including call wait times, incorrect 
information and a call back not taking place, I find the £100 compensation that was offered is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer of £100 compensation made by Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money is reasonable. I do not require it to do anything further in resolution 
of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman