DRN-1894166
 
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually 
sell the insurance complained about. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA in my 
decision.
Mrs J says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In December 2001 Mrs J took out a store card with PPI. The policy protected Mrs Js store 
card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Mrs J mainly said that she didn't know she had PPI and she wasnt asked if she needed it or 
wanted PPI.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold this complaint. He said that 
the policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from health problems 
Mrs J already had when the policy started. And Mrs J had mentioned having a health 
condition at the time - so if she needed to claim for this, she wouldn't have been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs J had understood this so she could make a 
fair choice about taking out the PPI. But he didn't think that AXA did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to Mrs J - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mrs J would've 
taken the policy out. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that Mrs J had not provided enough information about how her medical 
condition affected her ability to work. It said the condition shed mentioned was often 
manageable with prescribed medication. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told up to now, I dont plan to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Js completed store card application. Mrs J has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs J wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs J to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs J also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, 
she has forgotten this now. On balance, I think Mrs J was aware the policy was optional and 
it was added to her account when she chose to take it out.
AXA didnt advise Mrs J to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make sure the 
policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs J with enough clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs J wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs J was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for as long as 
Mrs J was off work sick  it could've cleared her card balance if she wasn't well enough to go 
back to work. 
The policy also provided cover if Mrs J lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And Mrs J hasnt 
given us any information about any other ways she couldve made the monthly repayments 
on her store card if she wasnt able to work. So I think Mrs J couldve benefitted from having 
PPI.
 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Looking at the likely policy document that 
wouldve been in use when Mrs J took out the PPI, I can see that Mrs J wouldnt have been 
covered for absence from work caused by a medical condition she knew about in the 
12 months before the PPI start date. 
Shes told us that she was diagnosed with a medical condition a couple of years earlier and 
shed had a week off work.
The policy paid out after 30 continuous days off work. This means that when she took out 
the PPI, Mrs J wouldnt have had any reason to think she would be likely to be off work for 
long enough to make a claim on the policy for absence due to her medical condition.
So I dont think having better information about the policys limitations and exclusions for an 
existing medical condition wouldve put Mrs J off taking it out. Ive not seen enough so far to 
suggest that at the time she took out the PPI Mrs J had any reason to think shed likely be off 
work sick as a result of her existing medical condition for long enough to want to make a 
claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that shes lost out as a result of paying for the 
policy. 
And as far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs J was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys benefit to her. So, even if these werent mentioned clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about these policy details wouldve made any difference 
to Mrs Js decision to take it out. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs J to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs J had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mrs J  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted it at the time. As she paid for the policy monthly, she couldve cancelled it without further cost at 
any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs J, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman