DRN-3536045
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave him incorrect 
information about his employers pension contributions. He says as a result he has suffered 
a financial loss of £1300.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only 
summarised them below.
Mr J held a group personal pension with Royal London into which his employer made
monthly contributions.
Mr J says he called Royal London on 22 July 2020 as he was due to leave his
employment on 31July 2020. He wanted to check if there were any outstanding
contributions to be made into his pension. He says Royal London assured him that
theyd received contributions for April, May and June 2020. And that his July 2020
contribution was due any day.
In August 2020 Mr J complained to Royal London. He said hed been given incorrect
information during his July 2020 call. Hed found out that as his pension contributions
were made in arrears, which meant that the payment expected sometime in July
2020 was actually the June 2020 contribution. And, there hadnt been a further
contribution in August to cover Julys instalment. As Mr J had since left his
employment, he said he was unable to arrange for the July contribution of £1300 to
be made retrospectively.
In their response Royal London confirmed that Mr Js contributions were made a
month in arrears. So, theyd received Junes contribution on 24 July 2020. And Mr Js
employer had not made any contributions relating to July 2020. Royal London said
they could not locate a call recording of Mr Js call in July 2020 but said they would
not have been able to confirm, at that time, if a payment was due to be made by his
employer. So, they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Following further communications Royal London were able to locate the recording of
Mr Js phone call from 22 July 2020. They sent a copy and transcript of the call to
Mr J but said, having listened to the call, it hadnt changed their mind.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. I sent Mr J and Royal London my provisional 
decision on 8 June 2020. The reasons why I was minded to uphold Mr Js complaint were 
set out in that decision. Ive copied my findings from my provisional decision below.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
The central issue I need to decide in this case is whether Royal London gave Mr J 
correct information during their call with him on 22 July 2020. And I dont think they did. 
Ill explain why.
Royal London have provided a transcript of the call. The relevant part of the transcript says;
Mr J: Well I am looking to leave my current job at the end of the month, so, they 
want to know if we are all up to date, they want to know how much they owe me in 
pension; I am going in at the moment and looking here it is saying that amount due
1 May 2020 paid 25 June 2020, am I right in thinking if I left on 31 July 2020 there 
would be two outstanding payments?
Royal London: Ok, I can see here that payments are up to date, there have been 
payments made in April, May and June 2020
Mr J: June 2020 doesnt appear here, oh yes its paid on 25 June 2020, but it does 
say, Im looking here and says due 1 May 2020 and paid 25 June 2020 so that 
suggests to me that it is some way out
Royal London: Looking at the payments here there havent been any missed 
payments, we are going to collect around today to pay around the 25th normally so 
the July payment will be due at any point, but no I can see we have payments for 
April, May and June 2020
Mr J: So going right back to the beginning then we are up to date and not behind a 
month or anything like that, so if we pay the July 2020 one then thats me up to date 
until the 31st
Royal London: Yes absolutely, like I say the date we go in for payment will be any 
day now, so unless they (employer) have informed us that you have left the 
company and have cancelled the direct debit theres no reason why July 2020 
payment should not go through
Mr Js contributions were paid a month in arrears. So, the July 2020 payment Royal London 
referred to in the call was in relation to the June 2020 contribution. Any contribution made 
for July 2020, wouldnt be requested by Royal London until late August 2020.
However, when Mr J checked that the payments werent behind a month or anything like
that and that the July payment would make him up to date until the 31st. Royal London 
replied, Yes absolutely. So, I think Royal London gave Mr J the clear impression that the 
payment due to be made in July 2020 represented a contribution for that month. But that 
wasnt correct.
Royal London should have been clearer in their communications with Mr J. During the call 
they should have explained that the payment due imminently was in respect of the June 
2020 contribution. But at that time, they had no way of knowing whether the June or July 
contributions were likely to be paid by Mr Js employer. Especially as the July contribution 
wouldnt have been requested by them until later in August 2020.
While Im minded to say that Royal London made an error in providing Mr J with incorrect 
information. I dont think its fair to hold Royal London responsible for Mr Js missed 
pension contribution. I say that because its Royal Londons responsibility to administer Mr 
Js pension. But it was his former employers responsibility to ensure the correct 
contributions were made. That said, Im mindful that if Royal London had given the correct 
information about pension contributions being made in arrears, Mr J would likely have had the opportunity to make sure all contributions were up to date before he left his 
employment.
I acknowledge Mr J may face more difficulties trying to obtain the monies hes owed seeing 
as hes now left that employment. But I dont think Royal Londons actions have prevented 
him from following the matter up with his former employer. So, I dont think it would be fair 
to say Royal London should compensate Mr J for his former employers missed 
contribution.
But I am minded to say Royal Londons error has caused Mr J a considerable amount of 
inconvenience and upset. Royal London have repeatedly denied their errors to Mr J, even 
after listening to the call he had with their operator. They were also unable to locate the 
call for several weeks but hadnt asked Mr J for additional information that would have 
enabled them to locate the call recording earlier. This added to Mr Js inconvenience in 
trying to resolve the complaint. Im also mindful that Mr J is deeply upset at the prospect of 
potentially not being able to recover the missing contribution at all from his former 
employer.
When thinking about how to put things right, I have to recognise that Royal Londons 
handling of things has caused more upset and inconvenience than Id typically expect from 
a situation such as this. I think a compensation payment of £250 would fairly recognise the
impact of that. So, thats the amount Im intending to award to Mr J.
The responses to my provisional decision
Royal London said they agree to pay the £250 award to Mr J. 
Mr J said that while he was still disappointed with Royal Londons conduct and his financial 
loss, he accepts my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision that the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, I think a compensation payment of £250 would 
fairly recognise the upset and inconvenience Royal Londons error has caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited must pay Mr J £250 for the upset and inconvenience their error caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman