DRN-3970428
The complaint
Mr S complaints Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays in providing information which 
resulted in him losing out on a mortgage product. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points of the complaint.
Mr S was applying for a mortgage and required bank statements for his Barclays account. 
Mr S requested these on 8 October 2021. Mr S says he needed to submit the necessary 
statements by 15 October 2021 as part of his full mortgage application. 
Barclays sent Mr S statements for his joint account instead of his sole account. There were 
also other internal issues which contributed to the delays Mr S experienced. Barclays sent 
the necessary statements by post on 22 October 2021. The mortgage product at the lower 
rate was withdrawn by the lender on 25 October. Mr S says he received the statements on 4 
November 2021. 
Mr S raised a formal complaint about the service he received as he said the delays had 
resulted in him missing out on the lower mortgage rate on offer. Mr S says Barclays should 
compensate him £2,000 for the losses it incurred. 
Barclays reviewed Mr S concerns. In its final response letter, it accepted there had been 
delays it couldve provided a better service to Mr S. It offered a £100 in recognition of the 
impact these issues had on Mr S. 
Mr S remained unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Barclays couldve done better and 
recommended it make a compensation payment of £200. Barclays accepted this 
recommendation.  
Mr S did not think the recommendation was enough  he explained Barclays should 
compensate him for the additional costs he now has to pay with the higher rate mortgage 
offer. Mr S asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and there has been a detailed 
investigation carried out by the Investigator. I expect Mr S will likely be disappointed in my 
findings here and perhaps with the level of detail Ive gone into. But Id like to reassure him 
that Ive considered everything hes told us and sent us. Ive focused on what I need to in 
order to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy to Mr S. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
The key issue I need to consider in this complaint is whether Barclays should be held 
responsible for the losses Mr S says he has incurred as he was unable to secure the initial 
mortgage rate that was on offer. 
Barclays accepts that it couldve done better when Mr S initially requested his bank 
statements. Mr S was sent the incorrect statements and his request wasnt processed in a 
timely manner. This in turn resulted in delays in Mr S providing information to his mortgage 
broker. Mr S says he should be compensated for the losses he has incurred which are 
£2,000.
Delays and administrative errors are common when dealing with banking services. And 
these issues can result in financial losses. DISP 3.7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook allow this service to put things right by compensating financial losses and making 
awards for distress and inconvenience. 
This means I can hold Barclays responsible for financial losses if they were incurred as a 
direct result of its inaction, and if the losses were foreseeable. But its not always fair to hold 
a business responsible for everything that happens following a mistake. Some losses that 
flow directly from a mistake may not have been a reasonably foreseeable result of the error. 
In this case, Im not satisfied that the consequential losses Mr S has claimed were 
reasonably foreseeable by Barclays when Mr S contacted it requesting statements. 
There has been a detailed discussion in the investigation of this complaint about Mr Ss 
ability to use printed statements. Essentially Mr S says only traditional postal statements with 
a date on would be accepted by the mortgage lender. Barclays says Mr S couldve attended 
branch to request printed out copies, as these are the same as the postal version. I am 
satisfied there is enough evidence to suggest Mr S did need Barclays to send printed copies 
of the statements for his mortgage application. 
Even with this consideration in mind I dont think Barclays can be held responsible for Mr S 
losing his initial mortgage offer. As outlined by the Investigator the mortgage wasnt 
guaranteed and there were a number of other factors which couldve resulted in Mr S 
missing out on the mortgage offer. And I dont think it could have been foreseeable that the 
mortgage product at the rate Mr S had been given initially would be removed from sale. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the ensuing chain of events and 
the £2,000 losses claimed by Mr S. 
However, I do think some compensation is due for the delays and poor service Mr S 
experienced. Barclays accepted early in the complaints process that it had caused Mr S 
delay and provided a poor service. It also says it couldve done more to expediate Mr S 
requests. I think the £200 recommended by the Investigator is a fair offer and reflects the 
impact of the error on Mr S. I say this because Mr S had to spend extra time contacting 
Barclays to chase the statements and its clear he was eager to resolve the issues swiftly.  
And I appreciate the mortgage application process can be time consuming and stressful, and 
Barclays was aware Mr S required its assistance with this process. 
Mr S says £200 fails to accurately reflect the impact the issues have had on him. Reaching 
an award for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are 
subjective by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. 
And its important to note these awards are not intended to be punitive for the business. So 
in the overall circumstances of Mr S complaint I am satisfied £200 is a fair award and in line 
with our services approach to compensation. I know Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for Mr S in respect of this complaint. However, 
he can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if it wishes to do so. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £200 compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience he suffered because of its poor customer service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman