DRN-1509818
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Zopa Limiteds handling of her application and the repayment 
amount for her loan.
What happened
Mrs D applied online for a pre-approved loan with Zopa in September 2019. Mrs D had 
recently moved to a new property and had issues inputting her address into Zopas system - 
so she couldnt complete the application. She provided proof of the address from Royal Mail 
and Zopa updated this on their system around a week later.
Mrs D tried to complete the application but had further issues. A second application was now 
also showing  with a higher interest rate and payment. Mrs D requested the second 
application be deleted so she could proceed with the first application as it had a cheaper 
repayment. Zopa said they fixed the issue but when Mrs D went to complete the application, 
they had deleted the wrong application - the cheaper one.
Zopa said there had been a bug in their system and she now had no live applications. Zopa 
told Mrs D she could submit a new application, but they couldnt reopen the original 
application.
Mrs D complained to Zopa. She was unhappy with the delays to her application and because 
of the errors in Zopas system, she now had to pay a higher monthly repayment. She was 
also concerned about having multiple credit searches appear for multiple applications. Zopa 
said they work on a live market so their repayment amounts can change on a daily basis and 
Mrs D wasnt obligated to take the loan with them. They said a bug in their system caused 
delays and prevented the first and second applications from going ahead so they offered Mrs 
D £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs D was unhappy with Zopas response, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint. They thought it was likely the first application 
wouldve completed successfully had it not been for the error in Zopas systems and so
Mrs D had been disadvantaged by having to make a higher monthly repayment. They 
thought the £100 offered for the inconvenience caused by the delay was fair but also 
recommended Zopa reconfigure Mrs Ds loan to replicate the monthly repayment for the 
original loan application.
Mrs D accepted this but Zopa didnt agree. They said they agreed to remove the searches 
on Mrs Ds credit file, and she was made aware her repayments could change before 
submitting the final application  so she didnt have to accept this and couldve gone to 
another lender.
The complaint has passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and in doing so Im upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Both parties have agreed on the offer made for the delays. And I think £100 is fair as it 
reflects the inconvenience Mrs D experienced in getting her address added to Zopas system 
and her application processed. So I wont comment on this further.
Zopa said Mrs D wasnt able to complete her original loan application because of a bug in 
their system and a result a new application had to be submitted. Looking at the information 
available I cant see any changes in Mrs Ds circumstances between her original application 
and the one which was accepted. So I think had it not been for Zopas system error, Mrs D 
would have been able to proceed and complete the first application with a lower monthly 
repayment.
Mrs D said she didnt feel she could go to another lender because of credit searches present 
on her file. Zopa have sent me a copy of an email they sent to a credit reference agency 
asking for the searches to be removed. The email isnt dated but I can see it asks for 
searches on three dates to be removed from her file  and one of the dates was the day she 
finally took out her loan with Zopa. 
The searches wouldve taken some time to come off of her file and Mrs D had already been 
trying to obtain the loan for some time. So while I agree Mrs D had the option to go another 
lender I think any searches wouldve still been present on her file. Zopa were aware of the 
issues as they had caused them, so I dont think its unreasonable she felt her safest option 
was to take the loan with them.  So I think Mrs D has lost out because of something Zopa did 
wrong.
Putting things right
Zopa told our investigator they wouldnt be able to reconfigure Mrs Ds loan to reflect the 
original application. So I think a reasonable way for them to put things right would be to pay 
Mrs D the difference between the two payments for the remaining loan term. Mrs D would 
have already made some payments at the higher rate so Zopa should refund her any 
additional money shes already paid along with any associated interest shes paid on that 
amount.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
To put things right Zopa Limited should pay Mrs D the difference in cost between her current 
monthly payment and the monthly payment for the first application for all of the outstanding 
payments on the loan account. 
They should also refund her any additional money she has already paid and any associated 
interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date she made the payment to the date Zopa Limited 
makes settlement. (If Zopa Limited consider that they are required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs D how much they 
have taken off and give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
To put things right Zopa Limited should:a. Calculate the difference in cost between her current monthly payment and the 
monthly payment for the first application for all the outstanding payments on the loan 
account
b. Calculate the difference in cost between what she has already paid towards the loan 
and what she wouldve paid if Zopa Limited had accepted the first application. 
c. It should also calculate any associated interest with b) at a rate of 8% simple from the 
date she made the payment to the date she is refunded.
d. Pay Mrs D the total amount calculated in a), b) and c). It will then be for Mrs D to 
decide whether to use these funds to repay the loan or for another purpose.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman