DRN-3356360
The complaint
Mr B makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society following his request 
to reduce the number of his accounts.
What happened
Mr B says he wrote to Nationwide on 1 January 2021 asking it to amalgamate Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs) and other accounts due to mature between April and May 2021. 
He says he has numerous Nationwide accounts and they are causing its online systems to 
jam. Mr B says Nationwide did not provide a clear response and doesnt accept it wrote to 
him when it says it did. He says the position has caused him stress and anxiety and believes 
he is the victim of age discrimination. Mr B would like Nationwide to resolve these issues as 
he has his life savings invested with it.
Nationwide says it has told Mr B that it cant accept account maturity instructions in advance 
as Mr B would like. It says it provides account maturity instructions the month before account 
maturity and says it wrote to Mr B on 11 January 2021 and again on 14 April 2021 with that 
information. Nationwide accepts that it didnt provide appropriate service in respect of one of 
Mr Bs complaints and paid him £100 compensation and says its up to Mr B to decide where 
his money is placed after maturity.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and questions if Nationwide has breached the Equality Act 
2010 and says he wants the number of his accounts reduced. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint and said in summary that Nationwide had fairly explained that it wouldnt 
accept maturity instructions some months before maturity but would send out maturity 
instructions in the month before maturity. The investigator thought it up to Nationwide to 
decide how it dealt with this type of issue and for a court to decide if the Equality Act was 
breached.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and also complains that Nationwide has stopped sending him 
a savings summary. He maintains he has not been treated fairly and says Nationwide could 
diarise his maturity instructions. Mr B would like Nationwide to accept it has not helped him 
and that its service is poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this compliant. I 
appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly 
Mr B feels about what has taken place. I make clear to Mr B that I have considered all of his 
letters and e-mails to us but will comment in this decision on what I think are the main 
issues.
It may be helpful if I explain at the outset to Mr B that we are not Nationwides regulator. That 
means we cant direct a business in how it operates or direct it to change for example its 
account maturity policy.
Im satisfied that the main part of Mr Bs complaint is the maturity instructions, he would like 
Nationwide to diarise his instructions, but Nationwide says those instructions are sent to 
customers a month in advance of maturity. In those circumstances and for the reasons I 
have explained  it is not our role to direct Nationwide to change its policy. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has fairly explained to Mr B what its policy is, and it would be for Mr B to tell 
Nationwide what he would like it to do with his money when his various accounts mature. It 
follows that its up to Mr B to decide if on maturity he wishes to pay the account balance into 
an existing account which would reduce his account holdings. And I dont think it clear why in 
those circumstances Mr B says he needs help to reduce the accounts. I also dont think it 
reasonable for Nationwide to diarise instructions some months before maturity as Mr B 
suggests. I am sure Mr B appreciates that Nationwide would have to offer that service to 
every customer.
I appreciate Mr B questions if Nationwide sent him the letter it says it did in January 2021. I 
dont think that is the main part of the complaint and can see in any event the information 
about account maturity was re-sent to Mr B again and in advance of the account maturity 
dates. So, I think regardless of if Mr B received the original letter, he was made aware of the 
policy. And I can see no reason why Nationwide would not have sent that original letter or 
why it would say it sent a letter when it did not.
I also appreciate Mr B says Nationwide has discriminated against him and may have 
breached the Equality Act 2010. I make clear to Mr B that it would be for a court to decide if 
that Act was breached. But I cant see any evidence Mr B is being treated any differently to 
any other Nationwide customers and that Nationwide has fairly explained on numerous 
occasions that Mr B opened the accounts and its up to him to decide what happens to the 
money in them on maturity. Im satisfied that Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably by 
explaining its policy and that is the test we consider.
I accept Mr B has a number of Nationwide accounts which Im satisfied he opened. And I 
accept that due to that amount that Nationwide may be unable to provide him with an overall 
savings summary as it once did. But Im also satisfied that the impact of that is relatively 
minimal as Mr B is able to calculate his summary from other sources, and I cant fairly order 
Nationwide provide the summary when it says it cant.
Im satisfied that overall Nationwide has fairly explained what its policy is for account 
maturity and has fairly explained that its up to Mr B to decide what happens to his money on 
maturity. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally 
can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman