DRN-2289828
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly registered fraud markers on national 
databases.
What happened
Mr H says he found out about the markers when he tried to get a mortgage from a different 
business. He says that he hadnt used his account at Santander since 2012 and that 
someone must have taken it over and received fraudulent payments. Mr H says he had 
never changed his mailing address when he moved away.
Santander says that three fraudulently obtained payments of £2,000 were credited to Mr Hs 
account on 10 December 2018. Attempts were made to transfer this money to other 
accounts using faster payments. All of the money was recovered. It said Mr H had called it 
on 7 December 2018 to change the phone number linked to his online account to the main 
mobile number it had on record for him since 2012. And multiple log ins had been made prior 
to the fraudulent funds being received. The payments out were verified when one-time 
passcodes (OTPs) sent to the phone number for Mr H were entered. It had tried to contact 
him and had written to him at the address it had on record when his account was closed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
- Shed reviewed the entries on the account in the period before December 2018. It 
had been used normally up to May 2017 and so hadnt been dormant since 2012. For 
example, there had been a credit of £50 in April 2017 with reference Mum. There 
was no explanation why an unknown third party with access to the account would 
use it in this way. 
- Although Mr H said his phone could have been hacked there was no evidence to 
support this. He confirmed he had the phone at the time of the payments and didnt 
share it with anyone. He said he hadnt been approached by anyone asking to use 
his account.
- She thought it reasonable that he would have updated his address details. While    
Mr H said his other information had been hacked on the dark web there was no 
evidence of any other attempted fraud using those details.
- She didnt think it likely anyone other than Mr H had used the account and said that 
he authorised the attempted payments.
- It was reasonable for markers at CIFAS and SIRA to be recorded.
Mr H did not agree. He indicated he had more comments to make. But he didnt do so when 
asked to by the investigator before the case was passed to me for a decision. And I consider 
hes now had a reasonable opportunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the fraud reports including to CIFAS were made fairly. On this 
point, Santander needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I have looked closely at the information Mr H has submitted. Hes shown that he had tenancy 
agreements away from what I understand was the family home while he was studying and 
also when working. He says he no longer had access to his address after 2012 so wouldnt 
have received correspondence from Santander and that his account was dormant. Hes also 
shown that recent credit reference agency reports indicated that some of his information may 
have been compromised. Mr H also refers to the possibility of the OTPs being intercepted.
I need to think about what is most likely here and the most relevant points to me are:
- As our investigator has said Mr Hs account seemed to be being used relatively 
normally up to May 2017. If a fraudster did have access to it and say had received an 
updated card and PIN (to make a cash withdrawal in April 2017) its unclear why that 
person would have operated the account in this way. And why that person waited so 
long to carry out this fraud risking detection.
- Mr H says he didnt call Santander on 7 December 2018 to change the mobile 
number to receive the OTPs. Ive listened to a recording of the call and of course I 
appreciate Mr Hs security information could have been discovered. But it doesnt 
make any sense for a fraudster to change the number to that of Mr H and not to 
another number if it wasnt him making the change.
- Linked to this there is no explanation of how someone was able to access Mr Hs 
online account using his details and then attempted payments verified with the OTPs 
that were sent to his phone. It is clear that the person involved was expecting 
something to happen on the account as it was checked a significant number of times 
starting from the day before the credits were received.
So, I dont find Mr Hs explanation that his account was taken over by an unknown third party 
to be the most likely. I consider he either made these attempted payments or allowed 
someone else to have the necessary access to his account to do so. And that would include 
allowing access to his mobile phone for that period. Mr H continued to use his mobile 
number without any reported problems after that.
Santander says that it applied the marker because Mr H received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the fraud markers to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:- Mr H received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- He allowed the attempted withdrawal of the funds and so would be in control of who 
had the benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr H had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate what Mr H says about the impact of this on him now. But Im afraid I dont have 
a basis to require Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman