DRN-2220728
The complaint
Mr V says Advance Payment Solutions Limited  trading as Cashplus - irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about 93 short-term loans Cashplus provided to Mr V between     
September 2014 and October 2017. The amounts borrowed were between £50 and £600 
and the terms of the loans ranged from a few days to a month. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Vs complaint and they thought the loans from loan 7 
onwards shouldnt have been given because the overall pattern of Mr Vs borrowing 
indicated he was reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. 
Cashplus didnt respond to the assessment.   
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashplus needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashplus should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashplus was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint about loans 1 to 6. Mr V hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cashpluss lending history with Mr V, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashplus should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashplus should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Vs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 7. I say this because:
At this point Cashplus ought to have realised Mr V was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr V had taken out seven loans in three months. So, it should 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr V was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Vs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Vs first loan was for £50 and loan 7 was for the same amount. By now Cashplus 
ought to have know that it was unlikely Mr V was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income, but more to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 7 onwards Mr V was provided with a new loan with weeks, sometimes 
days of settling a previous one. 
Mr V wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashplus. Loan 93 was 
taken out three years after Mr Vs first and was for a larger amount. Mr V had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect; service a debt to Cashplus over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr V lost out because Cashplus continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Vs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr V borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Vs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Vs complaint about loan 7 onwards. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr V paid on loans 7 to 93;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 7 to 93 should be removed from Mr 
Vs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to take off tax from this interest. Cashplus must give Mr 
V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Vs complaint. Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman