DRN-4426354
The complaint
Mrs T complains West Bay Insurance Plc has treated her unfairly because it didnt cover the
full cost of her dogs treatment under her pet insurance policy. She says West Bay failed to
make her aware that the increased policy limit only applied to new conditions.
Any reference to West Bay includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The parties are aware of the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised what
happened.
Mrs T had a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog. The policy was underwritten by
another insurer (Insurer A). Insurer As policy provided £4,000 cover per condition,
per year  so long as the policy renewed.
The insurer of Mrs Ts policy changed to West Bay. In July 2022 she was sent
renewal information which said lifetime cover under West Bays policy was £4,000
per year for all conditions. The policy also covered existing conditions.
Mrs T called West Bay to say, following the migration of her policy, she was unhappy
shed not been provided with like for like cover. She said cover changing from £4,000
per condition, per year to £4,000 for all veterinary treatment per year, was a
significant change.
She said that because of her dogs pre-existing condition, she couldnt move insurers
and so, she asked if she could increase cover under the policy. West Bay increased
the policy limit to £10,000 for an increase in premium cost  which Mrs T agreed to.
Mrs Ts dog subsequently required veterinary treatment for an existing condition. But
when she submitted a claim for the treatment costs, West Bay said Mrs Ts policy
limit of £4,000 had been reached and so, it couldnt settle the full amount.
Mrs T complained saying she had £10,000 cover and that she hadnt been told the
previous limit of £4,000 would apply to existing conditions. West Bay maintained its position 
but paid £50 to acknowledge it had failed to tell Mrs T this information during a call. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator
considered it and upheld it. She said West Bays had applied the terms correctly, but
it should have made it clearer to Mrs T that pre-existing conditions would be subject
to a £4,000 limit. She said West Bay needed to pay £300 compensation in total to
recognise the difficulties this situation had caused Mrs T.
West Bay accepted the Investigators findings, but Mrs T didnt. In summary she said:
oShe had no choice in the matter of switching insurers and was given a policy
which didnt provide like for like cover.
oShe had no choice but to stay with West Bay because of her dog having pre-
existing conditions.
oShe didnt expect to have to pay expensive treatment costs as she thought
she had £10,000 cover, and shes had the embarrassment of not being able
to pay bills.
oShes spent a significant amount of time dealing with the matter. The stress of
it is made worse owing to a health condition.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I reviewed the matter 
and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this matter is that Mrs T is unhappy that she used to have £4,000 cover per
condition, per year, under her policy with Insurer A, and she no longer has that. But West
Bay - as the new insurer of her pet policy - is entitled to decide what it covers, and it doesnt
have to match what Mrs T previously had. If Mrs T is unhappy about losing her previous
level of cover, that would be a separate complaint. What I can consider under this complaint
is whether West Bay applied the terms of her policy fairly.
The starting point is the policy document which says under upgrades or downgrades in
cover level:
This can be done mid-term or at renewal. Regardless of when you do this, if you
transfer your pet to a policy with additional or higher benefit limits, the additional or
higher benefit limits will not apply if signs or symptoms of a condition are present
before the transfer date.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Ts dogs condition  for which he required treatment - was present
before the policy limit was increased to £10,000. So, on the face of it, West Bay hasnt acted
unfairly by saying it wouldnt cover costs which exceed the previous £4,000 policy limit.
But the key issue here is whether West Bay made it clear to Mrs T that the £10,000 limit
wouldnt apply to existing conditions. As the term is about a change to the level of cover, it is
significant and therefore, should have been brought to Mrs Ts attention  but from what Ive
seen, Im not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
First, during the call where Mrs T increased the policy limit, the agent says, conditions that
started on your current policy will still be covered up to the new limit of £10,000, along with
any other claim. As far as Mrs T was concerned, the policy  though with a new insurer 
was a continuation of the existing policy she had taken out with Insurer A. And so, I can see
why she reasonably thought the agents reference to current was in relation to the policy in
general and wasnt specific to when the policy migrated to West Bay.
Second, Ive looked at the renewal documents sent to Mrs T after the policy limit was
increased to £10,000. I note West Bay sent a significant changes document along with this.
Whilst this document says there are new levels of cover for new and future conditions, Im
not persuaded it makes it clear any increase to the policy limit wont apply to existing
conditions.The above, coupled with the fact the relevant term is on page 17 of the policy document 
and so, only likely to be seen if Mrs T had read the entire policy document means Im not
persuaded West Bay brought the term to Mrs Ts attention.
Would Mrs T have acted differently?
Having established West Bay didnt make it clear the increased limit wouldnt apply to
existing conditions, Ive thought about whether Mrs T would have acted differently had this
been made clear to her.
From the information I have, Im not persuaded Mrs T wouldnt have gone ahead with her
dogs treatment had she known the full cost of it wasnt going to be covered. I say this
because its apparent Mrs Ts dogs health and comfort was of the utmost importance to her,
and I think  based on what Ive seen  that this would have taken precedent. And whilst Mrs
T was hoping to avoid large bills, I dont think the prospect of this would have deterred her 
from seeking the necessary treatment for her dog.
Compensation
Whilst Im more persuaded Mrs T would have gone ahead with her dogs treatment had she
known the claim would be subject to a £4,000 limit, it still would have been an incredible
shock for her to find out she wasnt covered for the amount she thought she was. And this no
doubt compounded what was already a stressful situation for her. And shes told us that
having outstanding bills with her veterinary practice has been embarrassing for her.
This, along with having to spend a significant amount of time dealing with the matter and the
financial worry it has caused, whilst also managing her own health conditions (which are
exacerbated by stress), persuades me that West Bay needs to pay an increased amount of
compensation to recognise the difficulties Mrs T faced. And Im satisfied £650 compensation
in total reasonably reflects this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Pay £650 compensation in total. If West Bay has already paid £50  as per its final 
response letter  it can deduct this amount from the compensation.
West Bay didnt reply to my provisional decision. Whilst Mrs T still felt West Bay should have 
made things clearer, she accepted my findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no new information for me to consider, and so, my final decision is the same as that 
set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to:Pay Mrs T £650 compensation in total. If West Bay has already paid £50  as per its 
final response letter  it can deduct this amount from the compensation. 
West Bay must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we will tell 
it Mrs T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman