DRN-2733756
The complaint
Mr B complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(Moneyboat) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took two instalment loans in April 2018. Ive included some of the information weve 
received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Term 
(months)Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £250 4 11/04/2018 24/04/2018
2 £700 6 26/04/2018 03/02/2020
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted these loans. He thought the checks 
completed by Moneyboat were proportionate and indicated each loan would be affordable 
and sustainable.
Mr B appears to have accepted the adjudicators assessment about loan 1 but he disagreed 
with what the adjudicator said about loan 2. In summary, Mr B said that:
further checks should have been made for loan 2 as he borrowed again not long after 
repaying the first loan; 
loan 2 was almost three times as much as loan 1 and over a longer period. Nothing 
extra was asked, information from loan 1 wasnt updated, loan 2 seemed to just 
follow on from it and
information about his income provided through his pay slip wasnt used correctly. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Moneyboat wasnt wrong 
to lend the first loan. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer 
think that I need to make a finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether 
Moneyboat did anything wrong when it lent loan 2. 
Moneyboat had to assess loan 2 to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Moneyboats checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Bs income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less 
thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Moneyboat should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Moneyboat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the instalment 
loan  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able 
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loan 2 (£700) was lent two days after loan 1 was repaid and was due to be repaid over six 
instalments of around £221 (rounded up). At this time Mr B declared an income of £1,600 
and expenses of £700 for rent/mortgage, credit, food and other expenses. The income was 
in line with Mr Bs payslip around this time although as he has pointed out the income used 
for loan 1 (£2,600) didnt appear to be correct. But as the adjudicator has explained, this 
didnt affect the affordability of loan 1, which I agree with, and I understand Mr B has 
accepted what the adjudicator has said about the outcome for loan 1. 
Considering the level of lending for loan 2, and it still being early in the lending relationship, I 
think the checks went far enough. And based on the checks Moneyboat completed Im 
satisfied that loan 2 wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable for Mr B.
I appreciate loan 2 was taken shortly after loan 1 was repaid and was over twice the amount, 
with an increase in monthly repayments. But, I dont think though this was particularly 
concerning or wouldve necessarily suggested to Moneyboat that Mr B wouldnt be able to make loan 2s repayments of around £221 sustainably when the results of its proportionate 
checks suggested otherwise. 
I can see that Moneyboat increased the expenditure declared by Mr B for loan 2 by £100 
because of information it saw in the credit report it had obtained. The credit check was 
completed at the point of application and Moneyboat also updated the other expenditure 
based on what Mr B said at this time (rather than when loan 1 was lent). So, whilst I can 
appreciate Mr Bs reservations about the information used to assess his lending, Im satisfied 
that Moneyboat relied on information it obtained at the point loan 2 was lent. 
The credit report provided Moneyboat with quite detailed information about Mr Bs finances. 
And I can see that he did appear to have other loans outstanding. But the loan commitments 
taken together with the other expenses declared didnt seem to suggest loan 2 wasnt 
affordable and sustainable.     
Overall, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that Moneyboat ought to have built
up a more detailed picture of Mr Bs finances for loan 2. As Ive said, the credit results and 
Mr Bs ability to repay the loan wasnt particularly concerning and it was still relatively early 
on in the lending relationship. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr B was struggling financially and repaying loan 2 proved difficult. And 
I accept that Mr Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained from its credit checks. 
And it might be that Mr Bs full financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Moneyboat knew about Mr B, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I dont
think that it could or should have known that Mr B was having financial difficulties at the time.
It is of course possible that, had Mr B continued to borrow from Moneyboat, then it may have 
needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved asking 
for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr B took two loans and these
appeared affordable, I dont think Moneyboat was wrong to have provided them.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about his loans. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman