DRN-2858227
The complaint
Miss G and Mrs G complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for damage following a storm.
What happened
Miss G and Mrs G jointly held a household insurance policy with Ageas. On 17 February 
2020, they contacted Ageas to report damage to their property as a result of a storm the day 
before. 
Miss G and Mrs G informed Ageas that the storm had caused water ingress, which had led 
to significant damage to the felt in the loft area and water damage to the ceiling directly 
below.
Miss G and Mrs G told Ageas that they wanted to make a claim under their insurance policy. 
It appointed a buildings inspector to attend Miss G and Mrs Gs property and assist it in 
dealing with their claim. Ill refer to the building inspector as P throughout this decision. 
P visited Miss G and Mrs Gs home on 26 February 2020 and inspected the interior damage 
that had been reported. P didnt inspect the roof due to its height. But it took photographs of 
it from ground level. 
Following Ps visit, it submitted its cause of damage report to Ageas. Ageas received this 
report on 2 April. This report advised Ageas to decline the external damage claim and settle 
the internal property damage claim under the accidental damage section of the policy.
Ageas wanted a more detailed report of the damage Miss G and Mrs Gs property might 
have sustained following the storm. So, it instructed P to reattend Miss G and Mrs Gs 
property and undertake a further inspection via a drone survey. This inspection took place on 
23 April 2020. 
After undertaking a more in-depth inspection, P informed Ageas that it was recommending a 
full repudiation of Miss G and Mrs Gs claim. It thought the internal damage had been 
ongoing for some time and had been caused by a previous, unrelated leak that had been 
poorly repaired. P advised that the presence of dark mould demonstrated poor ventilation 
and a lack of maintenance. And it stated that, while the roof felt had been torn internally, this 
wasnt as a result of a one-off storm event because there was no evidence of external 
damage to the roof.
Miss G and Mrs G disputed the reasons put forward as part of the repudiation decision and 
raised concerns about the quality of the photographic evidence that had been used to 
assess their claim. But Ageas didnt uphold Miss G and Mrs Gs complaint about the way it 
had settled their claim. It maintained its view that the report from P showed the damage 
reported hadnt been caused by a one-off storm event. And it told them that it wasnt 
prepared to settle their claim as wear and tear was excluded under the policy terms.
Being dissatisfied with how Ageas had resolved their complaint, Miss G and Mrs G referred it 
to us. An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. They were persuaded, overall, that the damage had occurred as a 
result of age-related wear and tear. And they didnt think Ageas had made an error in how it 
had assessed Miss G and Mrs Gs claim. But Miss G and Mrs G disagreed and asked for 
their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I want to assure both Miss G and Mrs 
G and Ageas that Ive read carefully considered all the information theyve sent us. I hope 
theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  namely whether Ageas acted 
reasonably in declining this claim. 
Its clear that Miss G and Mrs G feel very strongly that their claim should be settled. Their 
policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are 
specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, a 
policy holder must show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the 
perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Miss G and Mrs Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. I should also clarify that all three questions must be answered 
affirmatively for this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Miss G and Mrs Gs insurance policy doesnt 
contain any definition of what Ageas considers to be a storm. This isnt unusual. And, where 
the term storm isnt defined, this service takes the view that a storm generally involves 
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
Based on the weather reports relevant to Miss G and Mrs Gs locality, Im satisfied that there 
were storm conditions at around the time they contacted Ageas to notify it of their claim. I 
say this because the wind speeds recorded reached 42 mph on 15 February 2020 and Ive 
also seen evidence of heavy rainfall. This all goes to persuade me that I can answer 
question one affirmatively.
Turning now to question 2, Ive carefully thought about whether the damage caused to Miss 
G and Mrs Gs property is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm 
damage. And Im satisfied, overall, this type of damage is something that our service has, on 
occasions, seen following periods of stormy weather. It isnt unusual for us to assess claims 
involving both external and internal damage as a result of storms. Im therefore satisfied that 
I can answer question two affirmatively.Ill turn now to the third question I must address. Ps opinion is that storm conditions werent 
the main cause of the damage. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint P felt the 
damage had been predominantly caused by wear and tear. Ps report explained why it 
thought there was evidence of pre-existing damage and poor maintenance. It stated:
Some internal staining would be as a result of the peril, however, the ceiling is in poor 
condition having not been repaired properly on at least one occasion. The dark mould on 
wall and ceiling indicate a pre-existing issue with ventilation/ingress due to poor 
maintenance. The roof looks undamaged from ground level. The roofing felt under the roof 
tiles was inspected from the loft hatch and was torn and damaged and as it is unclear 
whether this happened when PH says it did or when the loft insulation was installed."
I understand that Miss G and Mrs G disagree with Ps opinion and are unhappy that Ageas 
has relied on its report to decline their claim. But Im satisfied P is a recognised organisation 
that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for 
Ageas to use Ps expertise in assessing a claim for damage. 
Miss G and Mrs G have raised concerns about the quality of the photographs P took during 
its site visits. But I can see that the second inspection involved a drone survey. And Im 
persuaded that the visual evidence P obtained of Miss G and Mrs Gs property support its 
opinion on the cause of damage. I also think the photographs P took of the roof and property 
interior are very clear and detailed.
Based on the available evidence, Im persuaded that the mould and staining to the property 
interior would have, most likely, become progressively worse over time. This indicates there 
were pre-existing issues which I think Miss G and Mrs G ought to have been aware of.
In relation to the roof felt, if this damage had been caused by a storm our service would 
expect to see broken tiles piercing the felt barrier. However, while there is clear evidence of 
significant damage to the roof felt, damage to the roof tiles isnt present. Furthermore, theres 
no evidence of any damage to the roof. And this all persuades me that its more likely than 
not that the felt has become damaged as a result of age-related wear and tear in that the felt 
has reached the end of its serviceable life. Wear and tear related damage is excluded by a 
policy of insurance.
I can see that Miss G and Mrs G informed our investigator that they wanted an independent 
report. But I understand that they havent instructed an independent expert to provide a 
cause of damage report. And I cant fairly conclude that Ageas had reason to instruct 
another expert to attend Miss G and Mrs Gs property  particularly in circumstances where 
P had already undertaken two site visits.
  
I appreciate that Miss G and Mrs G strongly believe that the damage to their property was 
caused by a storm. But I think Ageas has shown our service that it had cogent and reliable 
evidence demonstrating that a storm wasnt the predominant cause of the damage  as Miss 
G and Mrs Gs policy requires under the storm peril.
Like Ageas, I havent seen enough evidence to attribute the damage to a one-off storm event 
as would be required for me to tell it to meet this claim. Like our investigator, I think the 
damage was caused by age-related wear and tear. The problems they experienced have 
been exacerbated and highlighted by periods of adverse weather.
Under the terms of Miss G and Mrs Gs policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is 
specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because theres 
a difference between an insurance contract covering specific perils and a maintenance 
contract where a consumer will have jobs covered annually by a builder. Insurers are keen for these contracts not to be confused. There are wear and tear 
exemptions in their policies, so consumers dont use them for maintenance purposes. So, I 
cant say Ageas acted unfairly in seeking to rely on a wear and tear exclusion clause.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly conclude that Ageas acted 
unfairly or made an error in declining to cover damage that isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Miss G and Mrs Gs insurance policy. Ageas has shown our service reliable 
evidence to show why it feels the damage Miss G and Mrs G reported was predominantly 
caused by wear and tear. And this means I cant uphold this complaint. 
I know Miss G and Mrs G will be disappointed with this decision  they feel very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why they brought 
their complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded Ageas acted 
unfairly in how it dealt with this claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman