DRN-3972009
The complaint
Miss F complains about the service provided to her by Scottish Widows Schroder Personal 
Wealth Limited (Schroder) in respect of its investment advice.   
What happened
Miss F initially received investment advice from Schroder across a series of meetings in 
2019, with its recommendation presented to her and implemented in July 2019.  
The adviser recommended Schroders Personal Discretionary Portfolio Service, with a total 
investment of £100,000 split between a general investment account (GIA) and an ISA, with 
the intention that the ISA be annually funded from the GIA. Schroder then proceeded to 
provide an ongoing review service for which Miss F paid a monthly fee.
By June of 2021 Miss F had some concerns that were leading to dissatisfaction with 
Schroders service. Primarily at that point, these were a delay in making the first GIA to ISA 
transfer and some apparent anomalies with fees. She raised these with Schroder, also 
noting that she wanted to reduce the frequency of statements. 
Over the course of subsequent correspondence further issues were highlighted and 
expanded upon, including address errors, a failure to provide advice on the maturity of a 
two-year fixed rate bond taken out at the same time as the portfolio and delays in the receipt 
of quarterly statements.      
Schroder issued a final response letter in September 2021 in which it upheld the complaint, 
in part. It said, in brief -
It acknowledged an address mistake as human error and confirmed that correct 
details were held. 
While it could find no documentary evidence to support that thered been an 
agreement that the ISA transfer would take place at the start of the tax year, as the 
first transfer hadnt been made until November 2020 and in light of other service 
failings, it offered an amount - £30.16 - to reflect the potential tax liability incurred in 
respect of divided income between the start of the tax year and November 2020.
It felt the performance of the investments was reasonable against relevant 
benchmarks. 
Statements were provided on a quarterly basis by the investment provider (a 
separate business to Schroder) and this frequency couldnt be amended due to 
regulatory requirements. It noted Miss Fs concern that the statements were often 
received six to eight weeks after the end of the quarter and explained that it had been 
in discussions with the provider to try to improve this.
It acknowledged a slight delay in responding to the complaint. 
Although it accepted there had been some service failings, it didnt feel a full refund 
of the ongoing advice service charges was warranted. Instead, it offered £200.    
Miss F didnt accept this, and correspondence continued, with the complaint then being 
referred to this service in December 2021. 
Our investigator considered the matter but concluded that, while Schroders service couldve 
been better in places, its offer was broadly fair. He said, in brief 
Miss Fs main concern was not receiving the ongoing service shed paid for. But 
overall, he felt Schroder had met its obligations. He noted Miss Fs concern about a 
delay in the first annual review taking place but felt this wasnt unreasonable given 
the adviser had been ill. Further, when the review did happen, no changes had been 
made to the investments, so no loss had been incurred.
In respect of the two-year bond that matured in July 2021, the investigator didnt feel 
the evidence supported this product having formed part of the advice provided by 
Schroder in 2019, so thered been no requirement that it was reviewed.
The offer made in respect of the ISA transfer was fair as the evidence didnt show 
that the transfer was required to happen at the start of the financial year.
The final monthly ongoing advice charge applied in September 2021 was correct as 
the service had been stopped at Miss Fs request in August 2021, but the charges 
were applied monthly in arrears.
The £12.50 charge for quarterly statements had been correctly applied as set out in 
Schroders terms.
While no final statement had been provided to Miss F when she stopped the service 
and transferred her investments, Schroder hadnt agreed to do so.  
   
Miss F didnt accept the investigators view. Her representative made further submissions, 
saying, in short, that Miss F felt the £200 offer was fair and reasonable for the poor customer 
service, but not for Schroder failing to fulfil the terms of its agreement and not providing her 
with the contracted service in so many ways. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I should first make clear that I dont intend commenting on everything that 
occurred, or every complaint point, concern, or issue that Miss F and her representative 
have raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I think is important in reaching a decision which is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I dont mean this as a discourtesy to any of the parties. Rather, it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service and my role within it. But Id like to reassure Miss F and her 
representative that Ive considered all the information and evidence theyve provided when 
reaching my decision. 
The matter is understandably a very emotive one for Miss F. Schroders advice stemmed 
from the receipt a significant amount of money received by way of inheritance. So, I 
appreciate she wouldve wanted everything to be done with appropriate care and attention. 
But while there were clearly areas where Schroder failed to provide the level of service that 
Miss F had a right to expect (as Schroder has acknowledged) overall, I dont think it needs to 
do more than it has already offered to put things right.
Ive not seen anything to suggest there was any issue generally with the initial advice 
provided. Schroders adviser appears to have gone into considerable detail in looking at 
Miss Fs needs and circumstances and the portfolio looks to have a been a suitable means by which to address those needs.
But that said, as noted, Miss Fs real concerns lie with the ongoing service she was then 
paying for. She was unhappy with many aspects of the information provided to her, around 
how it was charged for and when it was received. In that respect, Im satisfied the 
statements were charged for correctly and while it does appear that they were sent out with 
quite a considerable delay after the end of each quarter, which wouldve been an 
inconvenience, I dont think this wouldve led to any loss to Miss F. And Schroder has noted 
that the statements came from the investment provider, and it has been working with that 
business to try and improve the situation. 
In respect of the first annual review, it was unfortunate it occurred late, more than a year 
after the original advice had been implemented at the end of July 2019. But this was due to 
ill health on the part of the adviser. And the review meetings did then take place in 
September and October of 2020, so not significantly after the anniversary of the advice. And 
as the investigator noted, no changes were made to the investment at the review, so again 
there wasnt any loss attributable to the delay. 
Alternative arrangements couldve been made by Schroder, to involve another adviser. But 
given that it was effectively only a matter of weeks before the meeting was able to take 
place, I dont think the situation was sufficiently bad that it wouldve been worth losing the 
consistency of Miss Fs relationship with the existing adviser, given his familiarity with her 
circumstances. 
I note that Miss Fs fixed-rate bond matured in August 2021, so the fact that the reviews 
were not happening annually precisely in line with the original July 2019 advice, meant that it 
was never reviewed (that said, ultimately no annual review took place in 2021 as Miss F 
cancelled the Schroder service). But in any event, I dont think the ongoing advice fee 
covered this bond and the premium bond investment made at the same time of the advice. 
There was no reference to it doing so in the recommendation letter issued to Miss F, which I 
think made clear that the advisers recommendation was specifically for the portfolio, made 
up of the GIA and the ISA. And although the bonds were alluded to in the 2020 review 
document, I think this was simply as part of the advisers consideration of Miss Fs wider 
current financial circumstances.   
In respect of the ISA transfer, while I note Miss Fs submissions that the adviser agreed to 
make the transfer from the GIA at the beginning of each new tax year, the documentary 
evidence doesnt support this. So, Im unable to conclude that the transfer was made late, 
outside the terms of any agreement. As such, I think Schroders offer, based on the potential 
tax liability from the dividend income earned during the period in question, is a reasonable 
one, particularly as it was intended as part of the overall offer to reflect the service failings.   
I recognise that Miss F and her representative see Schroders failings as a breach of 
contract, such that she should be refunded all the costs relating to the ongoing advice 
service. Although our rules require me to take into account relevant law and regulation, I 
ultimately make my decision on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. 
I think this was a frustrating series of relatively minor oversights and administrative errors. 
But as I said earlier, I understand why these issues compounded together wouldve have 
been unacceptable to Miss F. This was her first experience of investing and clearly it wasnt 
as good or efficient as it shouldve been. But I nevertheless dont think the issues taken 
together were such that they warrant compensation greater than the amount already offered 
by Schroder, which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth 
Limited should pay Miss F £230.16, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman