DRN-2949089
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are chasing her for a 
joint debt after she paid off half of the remaining balance.
What happened
This complaint is about a regulated loan agreement which was sold to Cabot in late 2012. 
The loan was taken out jointly between Mrs H and an ex-partner.
In February 2020, Mrs H rang Cabot to pay off half of the remaining balance. She explained 
that she and her ex-partner had agreed to each pay half of their joint debts. The adviser said 
they were happy to set up the payment, but they explained that if the ex-partner didnt also 
pay half then Mrs H would still remain liable for all the remaining balance, and Cabot would 
continue to contact her about the debt. The adviser repeated this point, and Mrs H confirmed 
she understood.
Mrs H made her payment, but the ex-partner did not. Cabot continued to contact Mrs H and 
asked for the rest of the balance.
Mrs H complained. She felt it wasnt fair that Cabot were chasing her. She felt they were 
treating her as an easy target and werent doing enough to find and pursue the ex-partner.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that with a joint agreement like this, both Mrs H and her ex-partner were liable to 
pay the full amount, rather than half each. So Cabot were entitled to continue chasing her for 
the remaining balance. They also explained that we couldnt look into what contact Cabot 
had made with the ex-partner for data protection reasons. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said shed given Cabot more of her ex-partners details and 
maintained they should do more to chase the ex-partner rather than her. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
First, I can completely understand where Mrs H is coming from. I understand it must feel 
most galling to agree things with her ex-partner, then for the ex-partner to not keep up their 
side of the agreement.
However, Im afraid the agreement Mrs H made with her ex-partner is a private agreement 
between the two of them  it is not binding on Cabot and it doesnt change her responsibility 
to repay the whole loan in full.
The way a joint loan like this works is that both accountholders are responsible for paying 
the whole amount. Theyre not only responsible for half each, even if thats what they 
privately agree with each other. So the debt owner  Cabot in this case  can chase either 
party for the whole amount of the loan.
This was set out clearly in Mrs Hs loan agreement. Ive also listened to Mrs Hs call with 
Cabot and I can see they explained this clearly on the phone too.
So while I can certainly understand why Mrs H would prefer for her ex-partner to pay the 
remaining balance, she still remains fully responsible for it. And so Cabot have a legitimate 
reason to be contacting her and asking for payments. Ive looked at Cabots contact history 
with Mrs H, and I cant see that theyve corresponded with her excessively or unreasonably. 
For example, their letters have said theyd like to find a payment plan that works for her, that 
theyll help if shes struggling, and that they can point her to independent organisations who 
offer help in dealing with debts. That seems reasonable to me.
I can also understand why Mrs H would like us to look into what contact Cabot have or 
havent made with her ex-partner. But as our investigator explained, we cant look into her 
ex-partners situation or into their correspondence with Cabot without her ex-partners 
permission. So Im afraid I cant consider those points, and I cant confirm what contact 
Cabot have or havent made there. If its any consolation, Cabot have told us that they have 
attempted to contact both parties using multiple methods, and that they will continue to 
contact both parties  including the ex-partner.
In any case, Cabot are allowed to pursue Mrs H for this debt, and I think its reasonable for 
them to do so. Ultimately, its a debt which she genuinely owes and which she remains fully 
responsible for as part of the joint agreement she signed.
So while I do understand Mrs Hs perspective and sympathise with her position, I have not 
found that Cabot acted unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman