DRN-3374498
The complaint
Mr M complains about what happened when he asked American Express Services Europe
Limited (Amex) to help him get a refund for flights which were cancelled.
What happened
Mr M paid £332.69 for flights with his Amex credit card in January 2020. When the flights
were cancelled by the airline, Mr M requested a refund, but was issued a credit note instead.
As the airline would not provide Mr M with a refund, he contacted Amex to help him get this.
Amex raised a chargeback for Mr M and a temporary credit was applied to his account on 3
April 2020.
On 10 April 2020 Amex said it received documentation from the merchant showing a credit
note was provided in place of a refund. In May 2020 Amex wrote to Mr M and explained the
chargeback wasnt successful, because of the defence provided by the merchant, and said
the amount which was previously credited to his account, would now be re-applied to his
account balance.
Mr M contacted Amex to say he was unhappy with the outcome of the chargeback claim,
and maintained he was due a refund and not vouchers from the airline. On 8 June 2020
Amex wrote to Mr M and said in order for it to review his claim under S75, he would need to
complete and send the S75 claim form back, along with any supporting evidence he had.
On 17 July 2020 Amex wrote to Mr M and said as it never received the documentation or the
requested information, his S75 claim was closed. But it said this could be re-opened if the
claim form was completed and returned. Mr M has maintained that he sent the completed
form to Amex but said he didnt keep a copy and doesnt have any proof of postage.
On 30 July 2020 Amex wrote to Mr M following our services involvement to acknowledge his
complaint about the way it had handled his claim. 
On 19 August 2020 Amex sent Mr M its final response. It said that although Mr M had said 
he was unhappy with how Amex had handled his S75 claim, it had never actually considered
his claim under S75 as he hadnt returned the claim form or documents that were requested 
from him. It said if he completed the form and provided the requested documents back then 
it could re-open his S75 claim. In terms of the chargeback, it said the dispute went in the
merchants favour and the case was closed.
Unhappy with Amexs response, Mr M asked our service to consider his complaint. When 
the investigator considered Mr Ms case, he thought, in summary, there was a valid 
chargeback claim and that whilst Amex did raise a chargeback, it should have considered
the chargeback further, when it was defended by the merchant. The investigator mentioned
that the terms and conditions of the airline also didnt mention that any voucher could be
offered where the airline cancelled the flight, and so he thought Mr M shouldve received a
cash refund as the airline cancelled the service.
As the chargeback was no longer possible to pursue, the investigator thought Amex should
refund the flight money and give £50 compensation to Mr M for the stress and concern
caused to him. Amex didnt agree with the investigators view. It said the reason the 
chargeback was rejected was that the Travel Associations Code of Conduct had provided 
official guidance to say that credit notes could be used by airlines in place of a refund. To 
ensure double recovery wouldnt then occur, Amex said the chargeback was rejected, as it 
considered the merchant could remediate Mr M as necessary.
Amex also explained how it didnt think Mr M had reasonably attempted to resolve this
complaint himself. It explained firstly that although the airline website had a section where Mr
M could exchange the voucher for a refund, he hadnt done this. Secondly, it thought Mr M
hadnt assisted Amex with the claim, as he had refused to return the S75 claim form and
supporting documents which had been requested by Amex on many occasions.
The investigator responded to Amex and said that whilst the airline may have followed
guidance to provide vouchers, as Mr M had made it clear that he didnt want a voucher, he
was equally entitled to a cash refund. The terms and conditions also made no reference that
a voucher could be provided if a flight was cancelled by the airline.
In terms of Amex being concerned about double recovery, the investigator said given that Mr
M didnt choose nor accept the credit vouchers from the airline, and had made this clear
from the outset, he didnt think this should be held against Mr M from receiving a cash
refund.
When the case was passed to me, I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said:
In order to consider if Amex has treated Mr M fairly here  I need to think about whether it
should have done more to assist Mr M in getting his money back. That means considering
whether Amex did enough in respect of the chargeback process and, if its response to the
S75 claim was fair and reasonable.
In summary I am upholding Mr Ms complaint on the basis that Amex should have done
more to assist him via the chargeback process. My requirements of Amex will, in my view,
put things right for Mr M, and so I have not further considered the position under S75.
In terms of chargeback, whilst there are different ways that a bank can assist consumers
who have had issues with goods or services not being provided, in some cases, a bank may
be able to request a refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way
in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and
suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this
case that is the Amex card scheme. In certain circumstances the process provides a way for
Amex to ask for a payment Mr M made to be refunded. Those circumstances can include
where goods or services arent supplied by the company Mr M had paid.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is some prospect of success.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually around a
month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not it agrees to the refund. And when a
supplier does defend a chargeback, the process then allows for further representations to be
made, and if the parties still do not agree, the issue can be decided by the scheme in a
process known as arbitration.
With regard to representment and arbitration, there is again no obligation on a card issuer to
take these further steps if the initial chargeback is defended. But, if, for example, the defence
from the supplier is weak and/or the consumers evidence is very strong and there is areasonable prospect of success, I would consider it good practice to consider the
chargeback further.
In considering whether Amex did enough in respect of the chargeback process, Id usually
take into account the relevant scheme rules. Whilst Amex has provided one of the
chargeback dispute codes, it hasnt provided a complete copy of its relevant rules and
chargeback guidance. Amexs response here is particularly disappointing as it hampers my 
ability to clearly review key information, and makes it difficult for me to assess for example, 
whether another code might have been more suitable, or whether Amex couldve gone on to 
do more for Mr M.
Nevertheless, I can see that when Mr M initially contacted Amex about the cancelled flights,
it raised the chargeback under the reason code for goods and services not received, which
looks to have been the most relevant code for it to use based on what I know about the other
card schemes rules. The rule that Amex has provided to me sets out that under this code
the goods or services purchased by the cardmember were only partially received or not
received at all. My reading of this is that where services have not been provided, there are
valid grounds for a chargeback. The rule also sets out evidence that a supplier can provide
in defence to the chargeback.
When the chargeback was defended, Amex told Mr M the chargeback was unsuccessful,
and explained it would be re-debiting the £332.69 transaction payment. Amex explained that
the chargeback dispute was rejected as the merchant had provided a credit note in lieu of a
refund. As Amex considered this to be in line with regulatory guidance at the time, it said
this was a suitable alternative, and so, it didnt consider the chargeback further.
Amex also told our service that as the credit note from the merchant represented the full
amount Mr M had paid for the tickets, and as this could be used to purchase like tickets
again, or be exchanged with the airline directly for a full refund, it was considered a 
correcting transaction.
The rule Amex has provided specifically says that in defence to a chargeback, a merchant
can provide proof that a correcting transaction, which directly offsets the disputed
transaction has already been processed. Amex explained that Mr M couldnt receive both a
credit voucher, and a refund through the chargeback scheme, because the voucher was
considered a correcting transaction.
However, I dont think that was a fair position for Amex to take and I will explain why.
Having reviewed all the available evidence and information, its clear that all parties agree
the service didnt go ahead and was cancelled by the airline. Amex has maintained that
industry guidance, from ABTA, at the time, said vouchers could be provided in these
situations, where services didnt go ahead. I note however that the guidance it has provided
to us also clearly states that whilst consumers may have chosen to accept a credit note if
offered, they were also entitled to a cash refund. It was clear in this case that Mr M was only
seeking a cash refund from the outset and didnt accept the vouchers. From looking at the
airlines terms and conditions, there is also nothing that allows the airline to provide a credit
note in lieu of a refund in the event it cancels a flight.
In the absence of any further guidance from Amex, about the goods and services not
received reason code, I have applied the wording of the code provided by Amex to the facts
of this case. And I think this was a reasonably clear case of services not being provided by
the supplier - which gave rise to chargeback grounds. My thinking on this point is reinforced
by what I consider to be good industry practice. I say this insofar as the other card schemes
publicly available guidance, in relation to chargebacks, sets out that where services have notbeen provided, and the terms of the contract, or government legislation dont permit
reasonable alternatives to a refund, then chargeback grounds exist.
Ive thought about Amexs comments about a correcting transaction. It has maintained that
the provision of vouchers was considered a correcting transaction, and that this was a valid
defence to Mr Ms chargeback request under its rules. However, despite my request that
Amex show us how it defines a correcting transaction in its rules, or any further published
guidance, Amex hasnt provided this. And so, I am unpersuaded on this point by Amex.
I think its reasonable in this case that I adopt what I consider to be the natural reading of a
correcting transaction which directly offsets the disputed transaction, which has already been
processed. Seeing as the rule talks about a transaction being processed, (which to me
reads that money needs to have changed hands), I take this to mean a direct refund of the
transaction and, not a substitute like a voucher. I do not find therefore that the evidence the
supplier provided in defence of the chargeback was proof of a correcting transaction.
Taking everything into account, I dont find a strong defence to the chargeback was provided
here, and I think Amex acted unfairly and unreasonably by not considering the chargeback
further for Mr M. I think the chargeback should have succeeded on the basis that the
services purchased by the cardmember were not received at all.
As its no longer possible for Amex to consider the chargeback, because of the time thats
passed, I consider a fair resolution would now be for Amex to pay Mr M £332.69 to cover the
cost of his cancelled flights, plus 8% simple yearly interest. Interest is to be applied from the
date Amex declined the chargeback until the date of settlement.
I appreciate Amex has raised concerns about double recovery, and also how Mr M could
mitigate his losses by going through the airlines website and converting his voucher for a
refund. However, Mr M has said several times, he hasnt been able to do this. In particular
he has had difficulty trying to navigate his way fully through the airline website, and with
completing some of the requested information on the refund form, such as the booking
reference number, which he no longer appears to have a copy of. 
Given the length of time thats passed since he originally booked his flights, I dont consider 
this to be unreasonable, and as Mr M is unable to proceed further with the refund, without 
providing this information, Im satisfied that he isnt trying to claim double recovery. I must 
also note, that had the chargeback been successful, the airline wouldve also had knowledge 
of this as Mr M had booked directly through the airline. And so, I dont consider the likelihood 
of double recovery happening as very high either.
In terms of how Amex dealt with Mr Ms request for a refund, I appreciate the investigator
asked Amex to provide £50 compensation for this to Mr M. Whilst I accept Amex could have 
done more with the chargeback, I dont consider in this case that simply declining to take a 
chargeback further, after it had been defended, would be a reason to provide compensation. 
I say this because I can see that it raised the chargeback in good time and also kept Mr M 
updated with what was happening on his claim. I can also see that when Amex said it 
couldnt take the chargeback further, it was willing to consider Mr Ms claim under S75 and 
sent the necessary paperwork in a reasonable timeframe too. 
As I havent seen any persuasive evidence to demonstrate any poor service overall from 
Amex, when it dealt with Mr Ms claim, I dont consider that any further compensation is 
warranted in this case.
My provisional decisionI intend to uphold this decision, further to what both parties provide, and intend to direct
American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr M £332.69 plus 8% simple yearly 
interest from the date it declined the chargeback claim, which in this case was 21 May 2020 
until the date of settlement.
Amex didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr M accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that no further submissions have been made in response to my provisional decision, 
by either parties, in the circumstances I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct American Express Services 
Europe Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr M £332.69 plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date it declined the 
chargeback claim, which in this case was 21 May 2020, until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman