complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about three loans she took with MYJAR Limited. Miss C says these 
loans were unaffordable and given to her irresponsibly. 
background
MYJAR provided Miss C with three loans between July 2016 and August 2016.  Miss Cs 
borrowing history is detailed below:
Loan Date Take
n Date Re
paid Instalments AmountHighest 
Combined 
Monthl
y 
Repayment
1 19/07/2016 11/08/2016 1 £100.00 £135.20
2 12/08/2016 13/08/2016 3 £150.00 £76.13
3 14/08/2016 outstanding 6 £1,000 £296.76
In its submissions to our service MYJAR made an offer in line with this services guidelines 
on loan 3. 
An adjudicator reviewed the case and wrote to Miss C and explained why she didnt think 
MYJAR was wrong to give her the first two loans. The adjudicator explained that for both 
loans MYJAR had gathered an appropriate amount of information and the loans were 
affordable based on what Miss C told them. 
The adjudicator thought that the offer made on loan 3 was a fair way to resolve the complaint 
and it was in line with the recommendations we would make if we thought a loan was 
unsuitable. 
Miss C did not agree with the adjudicators view and chose not to accept the offer. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
DRN-1428227Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I think the offer made by MYJAR on loan three is 
the appropriate way to resolve this complaint. And I dont think MYJAR has treated Miss C 
unfairly or that it should pay her compensation for loans 1-3. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss C and Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Miss C was provided with three high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So MYJAR 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that MYJAR needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Miss C before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify 
that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In her complaint Miss C says she was facing financial difficulties. She says had MYJAR 
carried out checks it wouldve seen her financial situation was deteriorating and she couldnt 
afford to repay the loans. MYJAR says that it carried out adequate checks  by gathering 
details of Miss Cs income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. And based on 
this MYJAR says it didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues 
for the loans it gave Miss C.
Its important to note that when Miss C took out her first loan with MYJAR it doesnt seem 
that she had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid in one 
payment of £135.20. Miss C had told MYJAR that her monthly income was around £1,400 
and after expenses she had a disposable income of £465 a month. Based on this 
information it seems that loan 1 was affordable for Miss C. The credit check MYJAR carried 
didnt show any recent defaults on Miss Cs record. So I cant see anything to suggest 
MYJAR shouldve been aware of Miss Cs financial issues at this stage. 
Loan 2 was taken out the day after loan 1 had been repaid and was for a slightly larger 
amount. This loan was also due to be repaid over 3 instalments of £76.13 and Miss Cs 
declared income and expenditure had remained the same. Miss C had successfully repaid 
loan 1 and MYJAR didnt see anything within the credit check that was cause for concern. 
So, looking at the monthly repayments in light of Miss Cs declared disposable income its 
difficult for me to conclude that MYJAR was wrong to decide that the repayments for the two 
loans would be affordable sustainably for Miss C. I note what he says about having multiple 
other pay day loans and having financial issues. But MYJAR carried out credit checks on 
Miss C when she took out the loans. And looking at the results of these there isnt anything 
on them that wouldve alerted MYJAR to the extent of these issues. So, I dont think there 
were adequate signs which shouldve led MYJAR to do more checks and Ive not seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that it acted irresponsibly in Miss Cs case for loans 1 and 
2. MYJAR made an offer in line with the adjudicators recommendations which Miss C did not 
accept. This offer included a removal of the interest applied to loan 3 and a reduction of the 
amount owing to the principal amount borrowed. MYJAR has also offered to remove any 
adverse information about this loan from Miss Cs credit file once it has been repaid.
I think this offer is a fair way to resolve Miss Cs case.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything, Im not upholding the 
complaint about loans 1 and 2. And it follows that Im satisfied that what MYJAR has 
already agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loans 3) is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Miss Cs case.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think what MYJAR Limited has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman