DRN-2828442
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service that he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) surrounding the switching of his account from his previous bank. Mr W also feels 
that the marketing issued by National Westminster Bank Plc regarding their current account 
switch guarantee is misleading.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr W made a request to switch his account to NatWest from his previous 
bank. When the switch process was completed, Mr W discovered that his new bank account 
didnt have the functionality that he was expecting that it would have. Mr W wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr Ws complaint. They felt that they had fulfilled their obligations as 
stated in the current account switch guarantee. However, they accepted that several points 
of Mr Ws complaint had merit, primarily surrounding the standard of service that hed 
received. So, they upheld Mr Ws complaint on that basis and made a payment of £150 to Mr 
W as compensation for the inconvenience hed incurred.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that NatWest had done 
what they should have done as per he current account switch guarantee. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and continued to feel that he had agreed to the switch on the 
basis of false promises. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W feels strongly about this complaint, and hes provided detailed 
correspondence to this service outlining his points of concern. I hope that Mr W wont 
consider it a discourtesy that I dont respond in similar detail here. Instead Ive focussed on 
what I consider to the be the key elements of Mr Ws complaint, in line with our role as a 
quick and informal dispute resolution service. 
Therefore, if Mr W notes that I havent referred to a specific point that hes raised, it shouldnt 
be taken that I havent considered that point  Ive read and considered all correspondence 
provided by both Mr W and NatWest  but rather that I have considered it, but that I dont 
feel it necessary to directly address that point in order to arrive at a fair outcome here.
In essence Mr Ws complaint is that he was led to believe that current account switch 
process would result in his account having full functionality, including, for instance, his being 
able to make full use of internet banking. However, Mr W discovered that this wasnt the 
case, and that he was unable to use the internet banking facility on his account without a 
card reader, which Mr W had to request, and which wasnt provided to him as part of the 
switch account process.
I can appreciate Mr Ws frustrations here, and it may have been that case that it would have 
been preferable if NatWest had made him fully aware of the potential limitations that he 
might encounter on his account following the switch process, so that he might, for instance, 
have requested the card reader needed to use the online banking facility in advance. 
But I also feel that the £150 compensation already paid to Mr W by NatWest does represent 
a reasonable resolution to this complaint and does appropriately compensate Mr W for the 
upset and inconvenience hes incurred here. Matters of compensation can be subjective, 
with an offer considered fair and reasonable by one party not considered as such by 
another. But £150 does feel fair to me here, and I note that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect in this instance, given the circumstances.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this 
time. This decision isnt made on the basis that Mr Ws concerns dont have merit, but rather 
because, as explained, I feel that NatWests response to these concerns, including the 
payment of £150 compensation to Mr W, already satisfies the response that I would expect 
them to make here, and so I dont feel that I can fairly ask them to do anything more.
I hope that Mr W can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman