DRN-4083764
The complaint
Mr P complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) caused delays during a 
claim under his protection policy which left him without a working hob.
What happened
In early October 2022, Mr P made a claim under his protection policy with D&G for 
accidental damage to his hob. Ten days later, an engineer attended Mr Ps home to facilitate 
a repair but was unable to do so due to the incorrect parts being ordered. The hob was 
disabled as it didnt comply with current safety standards. 
Mr P raised a complaint. And in early November 2022, D&G upheld it; offering £141.75 as 
compensation for what went wrong. It said the correct parts would be available in mid-
November.
A week later, when the parts hadnt arrived, Mr P raised a further complaint. D&G then 
agreed to provide a replacement hob under the policy. It informed Mr P that hed be 
responsible for the installation and disposal fees in line with the policy terms. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this, given the time hed waited for his claim to be settled, so he 
raised a third complaint. D&G agreed to waive the fees and the replacement hob was 
delivered on 19 November 2022.
The complaint was brought to our Service as Mr P is unhappy with how his claim was 
handled. He was without a working hob for almost two months, which he says caused a 
significant impact for his family which consists of three young children. He says they were 
restricted with what they could cook in the oven  as foods like pasta, rice, fried egg, needs 
to be cooked on the hob. They had to rely on ready meals which caused an increase in their 
food bill.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint as she didnt think the compensation offered reflected 
the inconvenience caused to Mr P and his family. She recommended a total of £300 to put 
things right. 
Mr P agreed but D&G didnt. It said:
Mr P set up his plan on 3 September 2022, which has a 30 day wait period  
meaning no claim arising prior to 3 October 2022 would be covered. When the claim 
was made on 13 October 2022, it had only been live for ten days. As the claim was 
so close to inception, it wouldve had every right to question whether the appliance 
was in working order when the plan was set up.
When a replacement was agreed, Mr P requested a plug-in hob, but all hobs are 
now hard wired to meet current safety standards.
The installation fees arent covered by the policy, but these have been waivered as 
further compensation to Mr P.
It wasnt aware that Mr P had the hob installed by a family member and it strongly 
recommends that the qualifications of this person are checked.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) requires D&G to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a 
claim. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say:
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee)
Both during and after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee 
period, if your product suffers accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in 
good working order), we will (at our option) authorise a repair, arrange a replacement 
or pay the cost of a replacement product.
Repairs
Where we authorise a repair we will pay call-out charges, the cost of labour and the 
cost of parts (as long as these are not covered by another guarantee or warranty on 
the product).
Replacements
In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to 
repair your product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product 
with one of a same or similar make and technical specification.
Disposal, delivery, installation and other costs
We will pay the delivery charges for any replacement arranged under this policy.
If your product is replaced, you will need to arrange the disposal of the replaced 
product. We will dispose of the replaced product if it is in our possession.
In all cases you will be responsible for installing the new product and paying any 
related costs.
D&G accepted Mr Ps claim and opted to repair the hob under the policy terms. But due to 
an error with the order, it didnt have the correct parts to do so. D&G offered £141.75 for their 
mistake and the delay to the claim which, at the time of the offer, had been approximately 
four weeks. 
I think the offer, at that time, was fair. I say this because, despite the accidental damage to 
the hob, Mr P was initially able to continue using it whilst he waited for D&G to action his 
claim. It was only after the engineers visit, when his hob was disabled, that he was left 
without a functional hob. So the offer was fairly reflective of the impact he wouldve suffered 
during those two weeks.
D&G then decided to settle the claim by replacement due to the correct parts still not being 
available. But it was a further 16 days approximately without a working hob until that 
happened. And I cant see that Mr P has been compensated for this additional delay.D&G says Mr P has been compensated by the wavering of the installation fee. But I dont 
agree. The policy says Mr P would be responsible for installing the product and any 
associated costs. So this isnt a cost that Mr P wouldve paid to D&G, rather he wouldve had 
to pay the electrician he hired. As no fee was due to D&G directly, there wasnt anything for 
it to waiver  unless it was going to offer to pay a electrician for Mr P, which I cant see that it 
has. 
In any event, Mr P had a family member install the hob. I dont know what he paid  if 
anything  but ultimately D&Gs offer had no benefit to Mr P so he hasnt been 
compensated. I acknowledge D&Gs concerns about the qualifications of who installed the 
hob, but I fail to see the relevance to this complaint.
I appreciate D&G has implied that Mr P contributed towards this delay due to requesting a 
plug in hob, but I dont think this request was unreasonable given that the policy says a 
replacement will be the same or similar to the original. Whilst I appreciate D&G says plug in 
hobs no longer meet safety standards; Mr P wouldnt have known this when he made his 
request. 
D&G has also raised concerns about the timing of Mr Ps claim and how quickly it was made 
after the policy went live. Again, Im not clear on the relevance of this remark. I say this 
because D&G wouldve assessed Mr Ps claim when it was first submitted and if it had 
concerns about the validity of it, it had the opportunity to explore these with Mr P and decline 
the claim if there was a valid reason to do so. 
Instead, D&G accepted the claim. As such, it is required to handle the claim fairly and 
promptly under ICOBS. And if something goes wrong, it should put things right. It cannot use 
the fact that it couldve questioned the validity of the claim as justification of how its handled 
a claim or as a reason not to pay compensation for a failing in its service. 
Overall, based on the evidence provided, I agree with our Investigator that further 
compensation is warranted here. Ive thought about the impact Mr P suffered from not 
having a working hob with a young family and increased food bills. Taking everything into 
account, I think a total payment of £300  inclusive of the £141.75 already offered  for the 
distress and inconvenience is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr P 
compensation of £300. If it has already paid the £141.75 previously offered, it may deduct 
this from the payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman