DRN-4226919
The complaint
Mr Z complains that TSB Bank Plc registered a maker at CIFAS, the national fraud
database after it closed his account.
What happened
Mr Z opened an account with TSB on 30 November 2022. His new card and PIN were sent 
to him on 1 December 2022. Mr Z says he did not receive these, and that he went abroad on 
9 December 2022, not returning until 16 January 2023.
On 27 December 2022 a payment of £674 was made into Mr Zs account from an account 
belonging to a third party, who Ill call X. These funds were then withdrawn over the next few 
days in a series of cash machine withdrawals. There were also some card payments carried 
out at retailers. These payments left Mr Zs account £96.63 overdrawn, with no arranged 
overdraft facility.
On 30 December 2022 TSB received an indemnity from Xs bank stating that X had been 
defrauded and the payment should not have been made to Mr Zs account. On 4 January 
2023 TSB emailed Mr Z to ask him to prove that he was entitled to the £674 he had received 
from X. Mr Z was still abroad and asked for more time to respond. TSB was not willing to 
extend the deadline for his response.
When Mr Z returned to the UK he explained to TSB that he had no involvement in any of the 
transactions on his account, he did not recognise the payment in or the payments out. Mr Z 
suggested that his card and PIN may have been intercepted and used by a fraudster.
TSB did not think there was a clear way Mr Zs account could have been compromised. It 
held him liable for the transactions out of the account (and so for the overdrawn balance) 
and, as he could not show that he was entitled to the funds that had been paid in by X, it 
recorded a marker against Mr Z with CIFAS for mis-use of facility and closed his account.
Since the marker was recorded Mr Z has received notification from other institutions he 
banks with that they are also closing his accounts. Mr Z wants the CIFAS marker removed 
as he says he is an innocent victim here and was not involved in the fraud on his account.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Zs complaint. They considered that TSB had acted 
reasonably in recording the CIFAS marker, in holding Mr Z liable for the transactions out of 
his account, and in closing Mr Zs account.
Mr Z didnt agree, he maintains that he was unaware of the activity on his account and that 
he never received the card or PIN which he feels must have been stolen by a third party.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 1 June 2023, explaining why I felt Mr Zs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr Z largely agreed with my findings, but felt that TSB should 
pay more compensation than the amount recommended and also provide a written 
statement saying he had not committed any fraud here.
TSB disagreed with my findings, after considering the police reports Mr Z had provided it has 
agreed that it will remove the CIFAS marker, but TSB does not consider that any 
compensation is warranted or that it acted incorrectly in holding Mr Z liable for the 
outstanding balance of the account, or in initially loading the CIFAS marker given the 
information it had at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
There are three issues that I need to consider here. Specifically, was it fair for TSB to:
close Mr Zs account? 
hold Mr Z liable for the outstanding balance of the account? 
record a CIFAS marker against Mr Z?
Regarding the first of these points, TSB is  in line with its terms and conditions  entitled to 
close an account. Mr Z did not ever use this account himself, so now that it has been closed, 
I wont be asking TSB to reopen it. If Mr Z wishes to apply for an account again then he is 
free to do so, but TSB is also entitled to decide if it wishes to offer him banking services.
Turning to the fraud itself, there are two issues to consider  did Mr Z knowingly receive 
fraudulent funds into his account, and did he then authorise the payments out of his account.
Mr Z has said that he had no knowledge of the funds that were received into his account, he 
had only recently opened this account  he says this was to take advantage of the switching 
bonus TSB was offering  and had not received his card or PIN so had not yet begun to use 
the account. 
TSB says that when it asked Mr Z to prove his entitlement to the funds hed received he was 
unable to do so, but Mr Z has never claimed he was entitled to these funds. His argument is 
that a fraudster intercepted his card and PIN and then used the account to perpetrate a fraud 
against a third party. Mr Z denies all involvement in this.
I need to consider whether, in light of this, the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
TSB needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It must be able to show that 
fraudulent funds have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass 
through the account. And will also need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
Ive though carefully about what Mr Z has said here, and while the report that the payment 
he received was fraudulent is clearly grounds for suspicion I dont consider that the high bar 
for a CIFAS marker has been reached. Mr Z has been consistent in his explanation of what 
happened here  that a third party was able to get hold of the card and PIN while he was 
overseas and then use his account without his knowledge. 
I note that when TSB initially contacted Mr Z he did ask for more time before he could 
provide a full response regarding his entitlement to the funds, but Mr Z has now explained to us that as he had used the account switching service he wasnt sure if any funds had yet 
been paid into this account (and did not yet have online access to check the transactions) so 
as he was overseas at the time he wanted to wait until he could properly review the account 
transactions before making any statement about his entitlement. Once he was back in the 
UK and able to visit a branch to see the account history he was able to confirm that he was 
not aware of any of the transactions on the account. Mr Z has never claimed that he was 
entitled to these funds.
And when it comes to the payments out of the account, Mr Z has provided evidence that he 
was out of the country from 9 December 2022 until 16 January 2023, and the withdrawals 
were made at ATMs in the UK during that period. Mr Z has also explained that his porch was 
not secure and that a third party could have accessed it and taken post hed received. TSB 
has confirmed the card and PIN for Mr Zs new account were sent on the same day, so they 
likely would have been received at Mr Zs property at the same time also.
TSB has said it cannot see how Mr Zs account could have been compromised, but I 
consider that a point of compromise has been identified. And Mr Zs comments regarding 
this issue do appear to have been clear and consistent.
With all this in mind I dont consider it was fair for TSB to have either recorded the CIFAS 
marker against Mr Z or to have held him responsible for the outstanding balance of the 
account  which was made up of payments which happened while Mr Z was overseas and 
which Im not satisfied he authorised or allowed to be made.
So I am currently intending to uphold this complaint and to tell TSB to remove the CIFAS 
marker, remove any adverse information regarding this account from Mr Zs credit file, and to 
pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused here.
In its initial response to my provisional decision, TSB raised several concerns it had about 
Mr Zs explanation of events. Specifically, it noted:
- Mr Z ultimately said he was not entitled to the funds paid into his account, TSB 
questioned why Mr Z requested an extended deadline to confirm his entitlement to 
these funds.
- Mr Z did not report that he had not received the debit card until a month after the 
account had been opened.
- There had been inconsistencies in the timeline Mr Z gave TSB for when he was out 
of the country.
- TSB had not been given any evidence that what had happened had been reported to 
the police.
We forwarded the police reports Mr Z had sent to us to TSB, it then confirmed that on the 
basis of the police reports it would agree to remove the CIFAS record. However, TSB 
maintained that it had been reasonable for it to hold Mr Z liable for the balance of the 
account, and to initially load the CIFAS record, as it had not been given these police reports 
at an earlier stage.
Regarding the points detailed in TSBs initial response to my provisional decision, I dont 
agree that any of these points are a cause for concern. Im satisfied that a reasonable 
explanation has been given for why Mr Z requested an extended deadline. And it seems 
clear that he reported his card as missing when he arrived back in the UK and realised it had 
not been delivered, he would not have known it had not been delivered until that point. I also dont agree that any minor inconsistency in TSBs record of the timeline Mr Z gave is 
significant.
Regarding the police reports, these were obtained by Mr Z in February 2023, after he had 
spoken with TSB. TSBs notes show that Mr Z had said he would go to the police to try and 
get hold of CCTV. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that TSB ever asked Mr Z to provide 
evidence that hed reported the matter to the police. And I note that by the time Mr Z 
contacted TSB to discuss what had happened the CIFAS marker had already been 
recorded. Given the serious implications of a CIFAS marker, I do think there is an obligation 
on businesses to ensure that they carry out appropriate investigation to ensure such a 
marker is warranted. Mr Z would not have known what evidence was required, I think it was 
down to TSB to ask for the appropriate evidence to support the CIFAS marker.
And for the same reasons as set out above, I also remain of the view that it was not 
reasonable for TSB to hold Mr Z liable for the transactions made on his account  and 
therefore for the outstanding balance that is owed.
So having carefully considered the comments TSB has made, I still consider that the CIFAS 
marker should not have been recorded in January 2023, that Mr Z should not be held liable 
for the outstanding balance of the account, and that TSB should pay Mr Z compensation for 
the impact this issue has had on him.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr Z commented that, as well as removing the 
CIFAS marker, TSB should also write a letter that can be forwarded to third parties 
confirming that Mr Z did not commit any fraud here. I understand why Mr Z feels this is 
important, but I dont think it is necessary here. Once the CIFAS marker is removed he will 
be able to make any applications for new accounts, and if he wishes to show this decision to 
any third parties to confirm my findings then he is free to do so. I cannot see that a letter 
from TSB would provide any additional benefit.
Mr Z has also commented on the level of compensation I have recommended, he considers 
that a much higher award is warranted given the impact on him. Im grateful that Mr Z took 
the time to set out his difficult personal circumstances, and the extent of the impact this fraud 
and the events that followed has had on him. But I must also bear in mind that at least part 
of the fault here lies with the individuals who committed this fraud. I agree that TSB could 
have handled things better, and that this will have had an impact on Mr Z, but TSB did not 
itself carry out the fraud. I acknowledge the impact that the CIFAS marker has had on Mr Z, 
but I remain satisfied that £300 is appropriate compensation for TSBs failings in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know that Mr Z wants any compensation to be a deterrent 
to TSB making similar errors in future, but it is not our role to punish businesses.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint TSB should:
- Remove the CIFAS marker it has recorded against Mr Z:
- Remove any adverse information regarding this account from Mr Zs credit file (and if 
Mr Z has paid the outstanding balance of the account then TSB should refund that 
amount to him); and
- Pay Mr Z £300 compensation.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman