DRN-4282333
The complaint
Mr G complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 July 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr G took out a motor policy with UKI in 2021 by phone having obtained an online quote. 
Ive listened to the call and its my opinion that UKI made clear policy communications would 
be through email only, and paper copies would have to be requested by Mr G each time. UKI 
also told Mr G he should regularly check his emails as thats how UKI keep in touch with 
their customers in respect of this policy. 
UKI sent Mr G a welcome pack following the call. This said, as your card details are 
securely stored, we will be able to take automatic payment for any future changes to your 
policy or to renew when the time comes  to save you time and hassle. I acknowledge 
during the 2021 call Mr Gs partner asked UKI not to store payment details. Despite this, the 
policy automatically renewed a year later. Ill return to this point later in my decision. 
UKI sent renewal documents to Mr G by email roughly three weeks before the 2022 renewal 
date. This email set out the policy was set up to automatically renew and stated: if you dont 
want to renew your cover, you must call us before 01 October 2022 and let us know. If we 
dont hear from you, well debit the account. I find this renewal invitation clearly set out Mr 
G should call UKI to discuss the policy, else it would renew. Mr G contacted UKI by phone 
five days after the policy renewed to discuss the policy and disclose a driving conviction. 
Having listened to both the 2021 and 2022 calls, its my opinion Mr G was very engaged with 
insurance renewal processes. I say this because he told UKI at every previous renewal with 
different providers, he always called ahead to try and negotiate a better price. He said he 
hadnt called until five days after renewal in 2022 as he was expecting a renewal invitation 
via letter rather than email. As mentioned above, I find UKI made clear all communication 
would be through email  and its clear from the 2022 call Mr G had no intention of allowing 
the policy to lapse or cancel it. So, returning to the point where UKI stored Mr Gs payment 
details on file when his partner asked them not to, while there was an error on UKIs part 
here, it resulted in Mr G having insurance in place between the time the 2021 policy ended 
to him calling UKI five days later. 
During the 2022 call, as mentioned above, Mr G disclosed a motoring conviction from July 
2022, to which the agent said an additional premium would apply. They explained they 
would refer this to their back office to see whether a £25 administration fee could be waived 
to help with the price of the policy. Mr G was also told he could cancel the policy, but he said 
he didnt want to do that. After the agent helping Mr G set up an account on UKIs online 
portal, its said the back office team would be in touch regarding the additional premium 
amount, and whether the administration fee could be waived. 
The following day, on 6 October 2022, UKI sent Mr G an email confirming the additional 
premium and confirmation the £25 administration fee had been waived. This email said the 
amount would be attempted to be collected by UKI from the card stored on the policy within 
seven days. And if UKI were unable to take payment, the policy could be cancelled. 
Unfortunately, payment didnt go through, and so UKI contacted Mr G again by email on 14 
October 2022. 
The subject of this email stated: Urgent action required with your [UKI] Car Insurance. The 
email went on to set out that the additional premium hadnt been paid, and Mr G needed to 
make contact to ensure the policy remained in force. It also set out what would happen if Mr 
G didnt make contact within the next seven days, and if the policy was cancelled, a £50 
administration fee would apply. I find this email was clear in setting out Mr G needed to act, 
and what would happen if he didnt. As he didnt make contact, a further email was sent on 
22 October 2022 to confirm the policy had been cancelled. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms regarding cancellation. These say UKI have the right to cancel 
a policy by giving at least seven days notice in writing. And they will send the cancellation in 
writing to the latest email address and/or the last postal address held for a policyholder. I do 
acknowledge Mr Gs preferred method of contact was for letters, and its good practice for an 
insurer to send a cancellation notice by two means of communication. But in this case, I find 
UKI made clear to Mr G during 2021 and 2022 that emails were the way they contacted their 
customers. As mentioned above, Mr G had access to the online portal following the 5 
October 2022 phone call, and was informed to regularly check his emails after being told 
email was the way UKI communicated with customers. 
I note Mr G was driving without insurance for a period as he hadnt seen the emails  which 
led to the policy being cancelled. Mr G says the reason for this was he didnt regularly check 
his emails. But I find UKI made clear how they would communicate with him, were consistent 
throughout, and its my opinion they applied the cancellation process fairly and reasonably. It 
follows I currently dont intend to require UKI to take any action here. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr G as I appreciate this wont be the outcome he was hoping for. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my provisional decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr G was understandably disappointed with the outcome of my provisional decision. Mrs G, 
on behalf of Mr G, set out, broadly, that: 
The complaint stemmed from UKI not corresponding with Mr G by post despite his 
requests for them to do so. Mr G struggles with email as the method of 
communication with reading from screens and as such finds paper copies more 
comprehensible. 
An insurer must, upon request and free of charge, also send a policyholder a paper 
copy of communications which UKI failed to do here. 
Mr G contacted his bank to establish whether UKI attempted to take payment for the 
additional premium in 2022. And the bank has confirmed no request was received or 
declined, and the only transaction requested by UKI was the initial amount for the 
2022 premium. Ive considered the further points raised here and Ill now move on to set out my final 
decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Gs reasons regarding why he preferred paper copies of correspondence 
over emails. Mr G also says he didnt regularly check his emails, and an insurer must, upon 
request, provide a policyholder with paper copies of correspondence. But UKI provided Mr G 
with the steps he would need to take to request paper copies of correspondence sent to him. 
And my opinion remains UKI clearly set out how they would communicate with Mr G, were 
consistent throughout, and followed the cancellation process fairly and in line with the policy. 
UKI say they were unable to take payment for the additional premium, while Mr G says 
following contact with his bank, he was told no payment was requested by UKI. All things 
considered  I dont find this makes a material difference to the outcome of this complaint. I 
say this because I find UKI made clear to Mr G payment hadnt been made, and he needed 
to act to keep the policy in force. I dont find it would be fair or reasonable to conclude UKI 
acted unfairly here by sending Mr G emails informing him he needed to take action  having 
told him all communication would be through email, and he should regularly check his 
emails. 
I accept this wont be the outcome Mr G was hoping for. But my decision ends our Services 
involvement in attempting to informally resolve his dispute with UKI. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman