DRN-1546262
Complaint
Mr L complains about the market value that esure Insurance Limited offered for his car, 
when settling his car insurance claim.
Background
Mr L made a claim for the total loss of his car. esure agreed to settle the claim by paying him 
the market value (minus the excess). It estimated the market value of his car to be £2,204.
Mr L thought esures estimated market value was too low. esure didnt increase its offer, and 
so Mr L brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He looked at the trade guides to 
see if esure had reached its offer reasonably, and in line with the policy terms. After doing 
so, he concluded that esures offer was fair. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been referred to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says esure wont pay more than the market value at the time of loss, less the 
excess. It defines market value as : 
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guidesThis may not be 
the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The issue for me to decide is whether esure has offered Mr L the market value of his car, as 
outlined in the policy terms.
It isnt our role to value the car. Instead, we check that insurers have acted fairly when 
placing a value on a car. In doing so, we look at trade valuation guides to see the estimated 
market value of a car. 
Ive looked at the trade guides that esure used when working out the market value. Having 
done so, I see that esures offer was just above the average market value across all four 
guides that it used. I think this was fair. 
Im therefore satisfied that esure acted fairly and reasonably when it offered Mr L £2,204 as 
settlement under his claim. 
Mr L says he wants to challenge the figures used in the trade guides. However, as our 
investigators explained, this isnt something that we can look at. Our rules are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in their handbook. These 
explain we can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying 
out a regulated activity (amongst others). The relevant list can be found in the FCA 
handbook  DISP 2.3.1R. 
Mr Ls concerns about the figures used in the trade guides doesnt meet the definition of a 
regulated activity, or any other activity we cover. It therefore doesnt fall within our jurisdiction 
and isnt a matter we can consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman