DRN-2937084
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly applied a default to her credit file
and would now like it to be removed.
 
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs C missed a payment on her Nationwide credit card. Following two more 
missed payments in July and August, Nationwide sent Mrs C a default notice. This explained 
that she needed to pay off the balance on her account by 8 September failing which further 
action could be taken. When Nationwide didnt get a response, it recorded the default 
against her.
But Mrs C says she didnt receive any letters or communications from Nationwide over the 
summer of 2020 and she only became aware of the problems with her account when she 
was contacted by the debt management firm to whom Nationwide had outsourced her file. 
She says if she had known shed have taken steps to put matters right straight away- as she 
did when she became aware.
Mrs C says that she understood that she had a direct debit set up for this card to make her 
monthly payment so she thought her payments were being covered. Mrs C also says there 
were only three transactions on her card, two of which were in the process of being 
refunded. If theyd gone through, this would have effectively cleared the balance. However, 
Mrs C wasnt well at this time and for that reason she wasnt keeping as close an eye on her 
account as might otherwise have been the case, with the result she hadnt realised the 
refunds hadnt gone through or the monthly payments hadnt been made.
Mrs C says she was able and willing to pay and what happened was simply an oversight 
caused by the circumstances at the time. She asks Nationwide to take this into account, 
along with the fact that she didnt receive any letters or other contacts from Nationwide 
before the default was issued and that she was unwell at the time and to remove the default 
notice from her credit file.
Nationwide felt it had applied the default properly. It said it had written to Mrs C after each of 
the missed payments to ask her to make payment or to get in touch if she was having 
difficulties. But it didnt hear from Mrs C so it had recorded the default at the default at the 
credit reference agencies.
Nationwide says its unable to provide copies of all the letters and notices sent to Mrs C at 
this time but its satisfied they were sent and that Mrs C was, therefore, given the correct 
information before the default was registered against her. And, because of that, it considers 
that the information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file is correct and cant be removed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She said Mrs C had had missed three 
payments on her credit card so it was reasonable for Nationwide to take action. And she felt 
Nationwide had taken reasonable steps to contact Mrs C before the default was recorded. In 
the circumstances she couldnt say the default was incorrectly recorded or ask Nationwide to 
remove it. 
While she had taken into account Mrs C hadnt been well over the summer when the 
problems occurred, she hadnt told Nationwide about this so it couldnt reasonably have 
taken it into account. And ultimately, it was for Mrs C to manage her account, including 
keeping an eye on the refunds and the payments. For that reason, she wouldnt be asking 
Nationwide to remove details of this default from Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C disagreed and said she hadnt heard anything from Nationwide before the default was 
registered and felt this was unreasonable. In addition, she provided information to show that 
the two refunds that should have gone through were now being processed. She felt 
Nationwide should take this into account in deciding whether to remove the details from her 
credit file. 
On 17 June 2021 I issued a provisional decision where I explained why I considered it would 
be appropriate for Nationwide to remove details of the default from Mrs Cs credit file. In 
summary I said:
It wasnt in dispute that Mrs C had missed three payments on her credit card and for that 
reason it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to act with regard to the outstanding balance.
However, before a default can be registered, theres a process that needs to be followed and 
that includes issuing the customer with a default notice. This is the formal notice that tells the 
customer that theyre in arrears, what they need to do to put matters right and the date by 
which any payment must be made. It will also explain the consequences of not taking any 
action
In Mrs Cs case Nationwide has said a default notice was issued on 11 August requiring the 
full amount on her credit card to be repaid by 8 September and it was only after this, and 
after not hearing anything from Mrs C, that it went on to record the default and to outsource 
Mrs Cs file to a debt collection agency.
But Mrs C was adamant that she hadnt received this notice or any other letters from 
Nationwide regarding her account. And Nationwide hadnt been able to provide a copy of the 
default notice because it had purged its system. Instead it had provided some records that 
showed the dates when three of the letters were sent, together with the relevant templates, 
but these didnt include the default notice. But Nationwide believed that, as it had shown that 
three of the letters had been correctly sent, it was only reasonable to conclude that the other 
documents, including the default notice, had been sent as well.
I didnt agree. The default notice is more than a letter. Its an important document that acts 
as a trigger for a number of other steps the lender can take. For that reason, it was important 
for Nationwide to show this had been sent to Mrs C before the default was recorded. And in 
the absence of this evidence, I couldnt agree that it would be fair or reasonable for the 
default to remain on Mrs Cs file. On the other hand, if Nationwide was able to provide a 
copy of this document then my view would be that the default was properly recorded and 
should remain. Thats because the requirement is for Nationwide to show it was properly 
issued but it cant be responsible if it doesnt arrive after its been posted. 
With regard to Mrs Cs personal situation, I could see this had been a difficult time for her but 
Nationwide hadnt been aware of this at the time so I couldnt reasonably have expected it to 
have taken this into account. And, while I had every sympathy for Mrs Cs personal situation, 
this didnt take away her responsibility to monitor and manage her account, including 
keeping a track of any refunds and payments.Mrs C and Nationwide have both responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent seen any information to change my view as to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
While I consider that Nationwide was entitled to take action after Mrs C had missed three 
payments on her credit card, theres a process that it needs to follow before it can record a 
default against her. And that includes issuing Mrs C with the correct notice regarding the 
steps she needed to take to bring her account back in order and the consequences of not 
doing so.
As has been said, Nationwide has been unable to provide a copy of the default notice that 
should have been sent to Mrs C before the default was recorded against her. And Mrs C is 
consistent in her view that she didnt receive any notification before the default was 
recorded. In the circumstances, I cant be satisfied this notice was sent and, for that reason, I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for the default recorded by Nationwide to 
remain on Mrs Cs credit file.
With regard to Mrs Cs account going forward, I note that Nationwide has said that it 
proposes to close Mrs Cs account and I can see Mrs C has also said that she no longer 
wants to keep this account open. But it seems to me that this is a matter for Mrs C and 
Nationwide to decide in accordance with the account terms and conditions and not 
something that I propose to cover in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to 
remove the default it had recorded from Mrs Cs credit file and amend its records 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman