DRN-3265693
The complaint
Mr I complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a medical expenses claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy. He believes that Avivas decision was due to racial 
prejudice.
What happened
Mr I has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. On 
19 March 2020, Mr I flew abroad. Unfortunately, hed been told that his mother was seriously 
unwell. Sadly, she died a few days later. Mr I had been due to fly back to the UK on 26 
March 2020, but his airline cancelled his flight. It later offered Mr I a credit voucher for the 
cost of this cancelled flight.
The next day, 27 March 2020, Mr I began to feel unwell and called Avivas medical 
assistance team. He was concerned that he had malaria. Aviva asked its local medical team 
to arrange for a doctor to visit Mr I at his accommodation. But due to Covid-19, Aviva was 
told that doctors werent able to carry out home visits. As Mr I told Aviva he didnt have any 
money to pay for a hospital visit, Aviva agreed with a local hospital that it would pay for him 
to attend a consultation there. 
However, Mr I owed money to his accommodation provider. And it refused to let Mr I leave 
the hotel until hed paid at least 80% of his outstanding bill. Aviva liaised with the 
accommodation provider to try and get its agreement to allow Mr I to leave the hotel to visit a 
doctor. But it refused to do so until the bill was settled. Aviva told both Mr I and the 
accommodation provider that it couldnt cover any of Mr Is accommodation costs until hed 
been seen by a doctor and had a medical report which would allow it to approve the claim.
The hotel maintained its position though. Aviva tried again to arrange for a doctor to visit Mr I 
at his hotel but was told this wasnt possible because of Covid-19 concerns. So Mr I didnt 
see a doctor and therefore didnt get a medical report confirming a diagnosis. This meant 
that Aviva wasnt in a position to accept Mr Is accommodation claim because there wasnt 
enough medical evidence to demonstrate he was unwell. Mr I was unhappy about this and 
he complained to Aviva. He told its assistance team on 3 and 8 April 2020 that he was 
feeling better. 
Subsequently, Mr I said that on 14 April 2020, a relative arranged for a doctor to visit him at 
the hotel. The doctor took Mr I to a clinic and he was admitted for treatment for food 
poisoning, amongst other things. The invoice said that Mr I was admitted until 24 April 2020 
and listed medical expenses of broadly £8500. 
Following Mr Is discharge and return to the UK, he got back in touch with Avivas medical 
assistance team to make a claim for his medical expenses, together with his hotel costs 
which had still been charged during the period of his admission. Hed been able to fly back to 
the UK on 1 May 2020 on a FCDO-arranged repatriation flight and he also claimed for the 
cost of this flight. He told Aviva that hed borrowed the money from a relative to pay for his 
medical expenses and that he didnt have a receipt showing the payment hed made to the 
clinic.
Aviva considered Mr Is claim. It initially had concerns that Mr I had travelled abroad after the 
FCDO had advised against all but essential travel, although it appeared to conclude that Mr 
Is reason for travelling had likely been essential. Given the lack of a receipt for Mr Is 
medical costs, it asked an agent to look into the circumstances of the claim. Ive set out the 
agents findings briefly below:
The treating doctor confirmed hed treated Mr I, but later told the agent that the 
matter had been a business deal;
The matron and other nurses in the hospital had denied knowledge of the 
treatment and bill and told the agent it wouldve been impossible for the bill to 
have been settled without their knowledge;
The hospital didnt have private accommodation facilities; a kitchen; security 
services; no pipe water and no ambulances, although charges for these facilities 
were included on the medical invoice;
There was no documentary evidence to show that the bill had been paid to the 
clinic;
The accommodation provider told the agent that it was in the course of looking for 
money and reaching an amicable solution and that Mr I said he was ill and 
looking for Aviva to settle the bill;
Mr I hadnt stayed outside of the hotel for more than three days during the whole 
duration of his stay;
Based on the agents findings and a discussion Mr I had with it, Aviva had concerns about 
the validity of the clinic invoice. Mr I had provided a photo which he said showed him 
undergoing treatment in the clinic. But given the lack of a receipt showing Mr I had paid the 
medical expenses hed claimed for or evidence to show that cash had been transferred to 
him to cover the costs, Aviva didnt think Mr I had shown hed paid the costs hed claimed 
for. So it didnt conclude hed shown he had a valid claim on his policy. Therefore, it turned 
Mr Is claim down.
Mr I was unhappy with Avivas decision and he considered itd been fuelled by racial 
prejudice. So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Is complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva had taken 
reasonable steps to try and help Mr I. She considered the policy terms made it clear that 
Aviva required a medical report in order to accept a medical claim. She thought itd been 
reasonable for Aviva to request evidence that Mr I had paid the costs hed claimed for. And 
given the outcome of the agents investigation, she felt itd been reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that Mr I hadnt shown he had a valid claim on his policy. She didnt think Avivas 
decision had been based on racial prejudice. Overall, she considered itd been fair for Aviva 
to turn down Mr Is claim.
Mr I disagreed. He didnt think the investigator had considered the complaint independently 
or reached an outcome based on the available evidence. He didnt think Avivas agents 
investigation report reflected fact.The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr I, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr I that while Ive summarised the detailed background to his 
complaint and the submissions of both parties, Ive carefully considered all that has been 
said and provided. In this decision though, I wont be commenting on each and every point 
thats been made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think 
are the key issues.
Id also like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr I for the loss of his mother. I dont doubt 
what an upsetting time this was for him, which was compounded by his illness and the 
spread of Covid-19 and resulting impact on travel.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Is policy and all of the available evidence, to decide whether Aviva treated Mr I 
fairly.
Ive broken down my decision into three broad headings. Did Aviva handle Mr Is request for 
medical assistance fairly? Was it fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Is claim? Do I think Mr Is 
race played a part in Avivas decision?
Did Aviva handle Mr Is request for medical assistance fairly?
Mr Is policy provides cover for emergency medical expenses if a policyholder becomes ill or 
is injured abroad. This section of the policy also sets out special conditions which apply to 
each medical expenses claim. One of these says:
You must phone the Medical Emergency Assistance Helpline before you make any 
arrangements if an injury or illness means that you:
(a) need to seek emergency medical advice; or
(b) are told by the treating doctor that you need to visit them for repeat treatments; 
(c) are going to require tests or investigations as an out-patient; or
(d) are told that you need to go into hospital as an in-patient.
The policy explains what role the medical assistance team will play. It says:
An experienced Medical Emergency Assistance co-ordinator will deal with your enquiry and 
make sure that where necessary:
(a) hospitals are contacted; and/or
(b) medical fees are guaranteed; and/or
(c) medical advisors are consulted.
Theres no dispute that on 27 March 2020, Mr I got in touch with the medical assistance 
team because he was feeling unwell. While the assistance teams records span several 
days, what is clear is that it took several steps to try and help Mr I. First, it asked its local agents, more than once, to try and find a doctor to visit Mr I in his hotel. I can see that the 
local agents informed Aviva that due to Covid-19, this simply wasnt possible. Given the 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and the impact on medical services, I 
dont think this was surprising. And I also cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for the decision 
made by third-party doctors not to carry out home visits.
Subsequently, the medical assistance team arranged with a local hospital that it would pay 
for Mr I to see a doctor. This followed Mr I telling Aviva that he couldnt pay for a 
consultation. I think this was a fair and appropriate response from Aviva and shows it 
attempted to ensure Mr I could access medical care. This offer remained open to Mr I up 
until the point Mr I told Aviva he was well and no further contact was made until he went on 
to make the hospital expenses claim.
It seems Mr I was prevented from seeing a doctor at this point because his accommodation 
provider refused to allow him to leave the hotel until at least 80% of his bill had been settled. 
The medical assistance records show that Aviva contacted the hotel more than once to try 
and resolve this situation. It suggested ways forward and that perhaps Mr I could leave his 
belongings at the hotel while he saw a GP, or that someone from the hotel could accompany 
him to the appointment. The accommodation provider refused all of these suggestions. 
In my view, Aviva was actively engaged here in trying to mediate a way forward between the 
hotel and Mr I, so that he could visit a doctor. It took clear steps to try and help Mr I obtain 
medical support and to access any necessary treatment. It isnt responsible for the providers 
decision not to allow Mr I to leave the hotel.
I can understand why Mr I wanted Aviva to settle his accommodation costs upfront, as this 
wouldve meant he couldve left the hotel and gone to the hospital. However, its a general 
principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on their 
insurance policy. This means it was down to Mr I to provide Aviva with enough evidence to 
demonstrate that he had a valid medical expenses claim before it would agree to settle his 
accommodation costs. And page seven of the policy says that in the case of medical 
expenses claims, Aviva will need all medical reports given to (a policyholder) by the treating 
facility. In this case, I think the medical assistance team repeatedly made it sufficiently clear 
that it required a medical report before Mr Is claim could be validated.
There are some notes which suggest that one call handler did indicate to Mr I that his 
accommodation costs would be paid. Ive thought about this. But in order for me to find this 
means that Aviva must pay the accommodation costs, Id need to be satisfied that Mr I relied 
on this information to his detriment. And I dont think I could fairly conclude this was the 
case. I say that because irrespective of this misinformation, Mr I was still staying in the hotel. 
He didnt leave based on this information. He couldnt leave the hotel until the bill had been 
settled. He was continuing to incur accommodation costs and would do so for some weeks. 
Im also mindful that over a period of broadly 11 days, Mr I had been repeatedly told that the 
claim couldnt be validated without a medical report. So I think the totality of the information 
the medical assistance team gave Mr I was clear enough to highlight that he required a 
medical report before Aviva could accept the claim.
In the round, I think the evidence shows that the medical assistance team took appropriate 
steps to try and help Mr I. It was concerned that he might not be fit to fly, given his illness 
and it made several attempts to try and ensure Mr I could see a doctor. It also made 
reasonable suggestions about how Mr I could find the money he needed to settle his hotel 
bill prior to the claim being validated. So Im satisfied that Aviva handled the medical 
assistance claim promptly and fairly.Was it fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Is claim?
As Ive explained above, Mr Is policy does provide cover for emergency medical expenses. 
But its Mr Is responsibility to provide enough evidence to show he had a valid medical 
expenses claim on his policy and that he underwent emergency and necessary treatment. 
Its also for Mr I to demonstrate he incurred the costs hes claimed for. I should make clear 
that my role isnt to decide whether or not Mr I was unwell and underwent medical treatment. 
Its simply to decide, based on the evidence, whether Aviva assessed the claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that Mr I has provided an invoice from the clinic he says he was treated 
in, together with a photo showing him undergoing treatment. Ive also carefully considered 
the fact that the doctor Avivas agent spoke to confirmed that he had treated Mr I.
However, I also need to bear in mind that Mr I hasnt been able to show that he paid the 
costs he said he incurred, such as a receipt of payment or a bank statement showing a 
corresponding withdrawal to match the total Mr I was billed. I acknowledge that Mr I said a 
relative lent him the money to pay his costs. But given the amount of the claim, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to require at least some form of documentary evidence that this was 
the case and that the monies had been paid to the treating hospital. Its clear too that only a 
few days before Mr I said he was admitted to hospital, hed told the assistance team that he 
was feeling better. In view of these issues, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly when it 
appointed an agent to further investigate the circumstances of Mr Is claim and to attempt to 
validate it.
Based on the agents findings, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to have some concerns 
about the validity of the claim. Thats firstly because there was no record of Mr Is bill being 
settled at the relevant clinic and senior nursing staff there said they had no knowledge of it, 
when usually theyre aware of all payments. The report suggests that the doctor told the 
agent that this had been a business deal, which suggests this was less likely a medical 
emergency. And despite the clinic not having facilities such as a kitchen; security; 
ambulances or private rooms; these costs were all listed on the clinic invoice. I appreciate Mr 
I told Aviva that he was transported by the doctors car; that he was admitted in a single 
room due to Covid-19 concerns and that food was prepared and brought to him in hospital 
and Ive considered this. 
But Ive also looked closely at what the accommodation provider seems to have told the 
agent. This indicates that Mr I had accrued a high debt at the hotel and that he said the best 
way out was to call his insurer to get it to pay out. The report also says that the 
accommodation owner told the agent that Mr I had only left the hotel for about two days 
before returning and claiming hed had treatment. They denied knowledge of Mr I being in 
hospital for a 10-day period.
Taking together the agents overall findings and the lack of evidence to show Mr I paid the 
hospital the costs he said hed incurred; I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably when it 
concluded that Mr I hadnt shown he had a valid claim on his policy. I therefore think it was 
fair for Aviva to turn down the claim because it didnt have evidence to show that Mr I had 
incurred the emergency medical expenses hed claimed for. It remains open to Mr I to 
provide further evidence to Aviva in support of his claim should he wish to do so.
Id also add that it seems Mr I received a refund for his original cancelled flight, by way of a 
credit voucher. And while there is cover under the policy for additional travel costs incurred 
as a result of an Enforced Stay Abroad, it doesnt seem that Aviva has considered a 
complaint about whether the cost of his repatriation flight should be covered, as its final 
response letters deal only with Mr Is complaint about his medical expenses. If Mr I wishes to 
complain about Avivas decision not to meet the cost of his repatriation flight, he may be able to make a new complaint about that issue to Aviva.
Is it likely that Mr Is race played a part in Avivas decision? 
Its clear that Mr I is concerned that his race may have unlawfully played a part in the way 
Aviva assessed his claim. Its important I explain that it isnt our role to decide whether a 
financial business has acted unlawfully or not. Thats for the courts to decide. My role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing that though, I do have to 
take a number of things into account  including relevant law and what we consider to be 
good industry practice at the time. So although its for the courts to decide if Aviva has 
breached the Equality Act; I must consider the Equality Act 2010 in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable if I think its relevant. 
As Ive explained though, in this case, I think that Aviva declined to pay Mr Is claim after it 
concluded that he hadnt shown he had a valid claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. So I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on the policy 
terms and available evidence in this case. And based on everything Ive seen; I dont think 
Mr Is race played a part in Avivas decision to turn down the claim or the way it assessed it.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mr Is position and the situation he found himself in, I 
find that Aviva has treated Mr I fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman