DRN-3993709
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc gave him notice to close his bank account. Hes also
unhappy with the way he was treated in branch. He says discriminatory words were used.
What happened
Mr T says that he visited a branch of Metro bank on many occasions because he wanted to
obtain a statement showing the amounts going into and out of his bank account. He says
each time he attended branch, he was told that a manger wasnt available and when asked,
Metro Banks representatives wouldnt provide their names to him.
After he attended the branch at the end of July 2021, Metro Bank wrote to Mr T giving him
notice to close his account. The letter didnt give a reason, but it referred to the terms and
conditions of Metro Banks our service relationship with personal customer document
(which Ill refer to as the terms and conditions of the account).
Metro Bank has said this action was taken because Mr T was rude and aggressive to staff in
branch. Mr T doesnt accept that. He has told our service that he was subjected to
discriminatory language; during a conversation, Metro Banks representatives said to him go
back from where you come.
Currently Mr Ts bank account with Metro Bank is suspended as it still contains a balance.
Unhappy with notice being given to close his account, and the way he was treated in branch,
Mr T complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr T disagreed
so his complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2023 and I explained in more detail why I was 
not intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I gave the parties an opportunity to reply. Metro 
Bank said it had nothing further to add. Mr T didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the account set out at clause 11.2 the circumstances in which
Metro Bank can close an account. And that includes if you are aggressive to our staff. It 
goes on to say: we may do this immediately or (if we are taking this action because you
have broken your obligations under this agreement) after the end of any notice that we have
to serve you under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as amended.
We would generally expect a bank to provide reasonable notice to close an account so that
its customer can make alternative arrangements and, usually, wed only expect a bank to
give less than 30 days notice in exceptional circumstances. Depending on the
circumstances that may include where a customer has been threatening or abusive to a 
member of staff.
Metro Bank also has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. And just because the
terms and conditions of the account allow it to give notice to close an account when a
customer is aggressive to staff, it still needs to act fairly and reasonably when relying on that
reason to do so. Ive thought very carefully about whether Metro Bank has done that here.
Mr T and Metro Bank have given differing accounts of what happened in branch at the end
of July 2021 and CCTV wasnt retained which is unfortunate. But its unlikely that CCTV
wouldve had any audio so it still wouldnt have been clear what Mr T and staff in branch had
said.
Where there is conflicting or a lack of evidence, its for me to weigh up whats been said and
decide on a balance of probabilities whats most likely happened.
Mr T said he was told to go back from where he came by Metro Banks representative. And
he denies being aggressive or abusive.
Ive seen an email dated September 2021 from a staff member of a different branch who
emailed the managers of the branch Mr T visited at the end of July 2021. This reflects that
Mr T had recently visited the branch upset that his bank account was being closed. Its
reflected that Mr T denied being abusive to anyone. Ill refer to this as the September email.
Importantly, I think in this case, the staff member doesnt say that Mr T had said he was told
to go back to where he came. And before complaining to our service, I cant see that Mr T
had notified Metro Bank that he had been told this.
Mr T says he wrote to Metro Banks head office raising concerns about his account being
closed. Metro Bank has more recently said it has no record of receiving this letter. Mr T had
mentioned this letter to Metro Bank before complaining to our service. And it does seem that
Mr T sent something to Metro Bank by registered post earlier in August 2021, which I think is
most likely the complaint letter hes referred to.
But I dont know what that letter said and according to the internal notes kept by the staff
member who wrote the September email, Mr T had said that letter responded to the false
allegation made against him. It makes no reference to Mr T saying the letter also raises
concerns that hed been told to go back from where he came. Of course, its entirely possible
that the letter did notify head office of this concern. But as I havent seen anything to support
that Mr T did raise this concern with Metro Bank before complaining to our service, on the
balance of probabilities, I dont think he did.
When providing a response to Mr Ts complaint to our service in April 2022, Metro Bank said
it had found no evidence to support the comments Mr T made about the branch staff. 
However, Metro Bank hasnt provided us with any statements from branch staff showing that
they were specifically asked about Mr Ts concern that hed been told to go back from where
hed come. If Mr T had raised this concern before our service had notified Metro Bank of the
complaint brought to our service, I wouldve reasonably expected Metro Bank to have
investigated that specific point. It doesnt automatically follow that the absence of this
investigation means that the concern wasnt raised around the time Mr T was given notice to
close his account; its possible that Metro Bank didnt take the concern seriously and decided
not to look into it further. But in the circumstances of this particular case, I think it provides
further support to the likelihood that Mr T hasnt raised this concern directly with Metro Bank.
I have considered the reasons put forward by Metro Bank to close Mr Ts bank account. Its
system notes reflect that: customer got very rude and abusive to staff. Hed been warned
about his behaviour in November 2020 when similar behaviour was exhibited and was told if
it happened again, it would issue a notice to close his account. I dont know if Mr T waswarned before as this wasnt followed up in writing. However, I think thats largely irrelevant
in the circumstances here.
Thats because, on the balance of probabilities, I think its likely that Mr T did exhibit rude
and abusive behaviour in branch at the end of July 2021 and thats why a note was made on
Metro Banks internal system to reflect that.
Whilst its possible that the matter escalated because of something said or done by Metro
Banks staff, I dont think I have enough evidence to find that is what most likely happened.
The September email reflects that Mr T had said hed asked the person dealing with him for
their namebut the colleague refused to provide [it] he says that was the extent of the
interaction and is quite disappointed at how the interaction has been exaggerated. As the
email was from an independent member of staff at a different branch to the one which Mr T
visited at the end of July 2021, Ive got no compelling reason to doubt the accuracy of their
summary.
And even if the staff member Mr T spoke to at the end of July 2021 in branch didnt provide
him with her name, I dont think that alone is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint.
Overall, I dont think Metro Bank acted unfairly by providing Mr T notice to close his account. 
Further, I dont think he received poor customer service in branch at the end of July 2021 or 
was told to go back from where he came.
Metro Bank has said that to obtain the balance in his account Mr T can either request a
transfer of these funds to another account elsewhere, in his name  which he will need to
provide evidence of. Or it can send the balance to him by cheque, to the address it has on
file. I think this proposal is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman