DRN-3612587
The complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
During our investigation we found that three PPI policies were sold between 1991 and 2001 
and our remit allowed us to investigate all three policies. Mrs R said that she only intended to 
complain about PPI sold from 1993 onwards and she does not require our findings on the 
policy sold in September 1991, so I will make no further comments on this policy.
Mrs R took out a second policy in December 1993 along with her ex-husband, the late Mr N. 
The policy cost £35 a month and provided a monthly benefit of £500. It covered Mr N only, 
and if he was too ill to work, or made involuntarily redundant, the policy would have paid out 
the benefit for up to 12 months per claim. 
The third policy was taken in October 2001, by which point the mortgage was in the sole 
name of Mrs R. This policy cost £31.24 and provided a monthly benefit of £500. This would 
have covered Mrs R if she was off sick from work or made involuntarily redundant for up to 
24 months per claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint and in my first provisional decision  I agreed 
with them. Mrs R disagreed with my provisional decision and provided lengthy feedback. So 
the complaint was passed back to me and I issued a second provisional decision findings 
that the policy sold in 2001 should be upheld. Below is an extract of what I said:
Consent and optionality
Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs R that the policies were optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added the PPI to her mortgage accounts. Halifax says it would have done 
this. But Mrs R says she was led to believe she had to have the policies in order to obtain 
her mortgages. 
Ive thought carefully about the additional points Mrs R raised on this, but my findings remain 
the same as my previous decision.
The sales took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. Mrs R says that she has provided this information for the 2001 sale, but 
I havent seen any documents that relate to the actual time of sale, when the advice was 
given. I have only seen documents that were produced shortly afterwards, which 
do not evidence what was discussed in terms of consent and optionality. But, as I said 
previously, Mrs R accepts that she had the policies, so I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs R agreed to each of the policies at the times of sale. So, I have focused on considering 
whether Mrs R was made aware they were optional or not.
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mrs R was sold her PPI policies. Using what I know generally 
of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mrs R would have 
been given an option to take out the PPI on both occasions. I say this because, the 
paperwork Halifax produced for its sales, such as the mortgage offer, would usually have 
had a section that confirmed no insurance was required through Halifax, and that buildings 
insurance was the only required insurance. So, while I have considered Mrs Rs recollections 
about what was said to her by the advisers, I havent seen enough persuasive evidence to 
make me think the policies would not have been presented as optional.
I understand that the optional nature of the policies is Mrs Rs main complaint point, but in 
order to be thorough, and to investigate the PPI sales fully, I have also looked into other 
aspects of the sales and Ive set out my findings below.
Both parties agree that Halifax would have advised Mrs R to take the policies. This puts 
more responsibility on Halifax  it means as well as giving Mrs R enough information about 
each policy, it also had to check they were suitable. So, Ive considered the case on the 
basis that advice was given and having done so, Ive found that the policy sold in 1993 
appears to have been right for Mr N and Mrs R when it was sold. Ill explain why below.
From the information available, Mr N was eligible for the policy sold in December 1993 and 
he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the terms which might have made it harder 
for him to claim, such as having unusual employment circumstances. Although Mrs R says 
Mr Ns employment wasnt very stable, based on the dates shes provided, it looks as though 
he held each position for around two years or more and fairly quickly found new jobs when 
his employment ended. Mrs R had mentioned that Mr N was director at one point. I looked 
into this as well, but I havent found that he was a director at the time of sale. So, I havent 
seen enough to say the policy wouldnt have been suitable for him.
Mrs R has confirmed that Mr N did not have a pre-existing medical condition at the time of 
sale, and I havent seen anything else to make me think Mr N wouldnt have been able to 
benefit from the accident and sickness element of the policy. 
Mrs R has explained that she had several ways of making her monthly mortgage 
repayments should something have happened and she believes this reinforces that she 
wouldnt have taken either of the policies if they had been presented to her as optional. 
I have already explained why I think the policies were more likely than not presented as 
being optional, so I will now consider whether the advice Halifax gave Mrs R was suitable 
based on the other means she says she had at the time of each sale. Given the 
circumstances were different for each sale, I have addressed them individually below. 
December 1993
I note that Mrs R has said she paid for this and the later policy by herself. But as Mr N was 
the one insured, I have to consider his circumstances to understand whether the policy was 
suitable for them or not. Mrs R says Mr N would have been entitled some sick pay if he was off work, but otherwise 
Im not aware of any additional means he would have had available to him should he have 
been too ill to work or lost his job. Mrs R may not think this is relevant because she says she 
paid for both the mortgage and PPI policy from her own personal account and with her own 
income. But it seems more likely than not that the mortgage was assessed on the basis of 
both incomes. So, without full knowledge of what other commitments Mr N may have been 
paying for, which Mrs R may have had to pay for if he was not receiving an income  I cant 
say based on what I have that Halifax was wrong to recommend this policy to them. 
I have taken on board Mrs Rs comments about this and I understand that she finds my 
comments offensive. But as part of my role, I need to explain my findings and rationale for 
reaching the decision I have. And the comments Ive made form an important part of my 
reasoning. Ultimately, I have to decide whether the business did anything wrong and as 
Mr Ns income was more likely than not included in the mortgage application  its 
reasonable for the business to have recommended protecting that income even if Mrs R 
ended up being responsible for everything. 
Mrs R has raised a concern about the benefit split of this policy  she believes it should have 
protected her as well as Mr N. And I think its possible the split should have been different, 
but as Mrs R never attempted to make a claim on the policy, I dont think this has resulted in 
any financial loss to Mrs R. If Mrs R had needed to make a claim on the policy when it was in 
place, the split could have been investigated to ensure it was correct. But we would not look 
to compensate Mrs R for this given her premiums would have been the same regardless of 
how the benefit was split and she ultimately never needed to make a claim. If she had been 
named as a beneficiary, her personal financial circumstances, which Ill explain in more 
detail below, wouldnt have made the policy unsuitable for her. 
October 2001
Halifax recommended a new policy to Mrs R, but I dont think it was right for her. 
Mrs R was the sole beneficiary of this final policy, so Ive considered all of her circumstances 
again for this sale. Mrs R says she would have been entitled to at least six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay, as well in death in service cover from her employer. Mrs R 
says she also had private medical insurance as well as some savings, which I note had 
significantly increased since December 1993  to around £20,000.
The policy provided cover for up to 24 months and this would more often than not be useful 
to a consumer who had taken out a big and long-term commitment such as a mortgage. But 
in Mrs Rs particular case, the evidence suggests that she intended to repay the mortgage 
within a short period of time. 
Mrs Rs mortgage statements show that she paid off a significant amount in December 2001, 
just two months after she amended the mortgage. The mortgage statements from 2002 
show her new monthly repayment amount reduced to just £50.93 per month  not much 
more than the monthly PPI premiums.
So, within two months of re-mortgaging, Mrs Rs monthly repayments were much lower and I 
dont think Mrs R would have thought the cost of the PPI was good value for money at this 
point, particularly considering she had generous sick pay and fairly substantial savings. 
Mrs R says Halifax was aware of her intention to do this and I think Halifax more likely than 
not knew this was her intention, given it happened so quickly after the mortgage was agreed 
and it doesnt appear to have been due to an unexpected windfall. Considering this, I dont think Mrs R wouldve bought the policy if Halifax had made clear it 
wasnt right for her. So, I think Mrs R has lost out because of what Halifax did wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided to 
partially uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision and agreed to refund the cost of the PPI for the 
policy sold in 2001. 
Mrs R also responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings on the policy 
sold in 2001. But Mrs R provided more evidence in relation to Mr Ns director status to see if 
this had any impact on my findings for the 1993 sale. 
Looking at the terms of the policy, I cant see that the terms would have restricted Mr N from 
making an unemployment claim even if he was a director at the time, so the further 
information Mrs R has provided doesnt change my provisional findings and I still think this 
part of Mrs R complaint should not be upheld.  
Ive reconsidered all of the evidence and what Mrs R has said, but I still dont have enough 
information to say the policy sold in 1993 was mis-sold. So, for the reasons set out above, I 
only uphold the policy sold in 2001.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mrs R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI in 
October 2001. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Halifax should:
Pay Mrs R the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part.
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman