DRN-1097455
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about problems he's had with his Equifax LIMITED credit record.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr H received a copy of his credit report from Equifax, but the cover letter 
was addressed to someone else. Mr H complained about this. He also complained about a 
search that had been made by a third party lender.  
Equifax explained that it was aware of a system error which could occur if it's operator didn't 
complete a manual intervention. This occurred when sending a copy of his credit report to Mr 
H. And this is why he received his credit report with another person's name on it. It accepted 
this must've worried Mr H so it offered him £100 compensation. It also said it had contacted 
the third party lender who had refused permission for the search record to be amended. So 
Equifax told Mr H that he would need to contact the lender directly.
Mr H wasn't happy with this and referred the matter to this service. At this time he also 
complained about the fact that credit searches had been done on him with an incorrect date 
of birth and that other people had been linked to him by Equifax who shouldn't be.
One of our investigators looked into things and didn't think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary:
he agreed Equifax had sent Mr H's report using the wrong name on the covering 
letter. But he thought the £100 it had offered was fair.
Mr H should contact the third party lender if he disagreed with a search it had done.
the people who had been linked to his credit report had been linked to him since 
2005 and he was already aware of this so this hadn't had an impact on Mr H. And 
Equifax had now removed these names.
we had already issued an ombudsman's final decision on his complaint about an 
incorrect date of birth being used on searches on his credit report and we wouldn't 
look at that again.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So it's been passed 
to me to consider and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I agree with our investigator that we have previously considered Mr H's complaint 
about incorrect dates of birth being used when carrying out searches in his name. An 
ombudsman's decision was issued on that matter in April 2019. So I won't comment on this 
matter further.Equifax has explained why Mr H was sent a copy of his credit report with someone else's 
name on it. I've seen no evidence to suggest that this explanation is incorrect or anything 
more sinister has occurred. And as it was simply an incorrect name, and Mr H's information 
wasn't sent to someone else, I don't think there had been any breach of Mr H's privacy.  It 
quickly explained the reasoning behind this and rectified the problem for Mr H by sending a 
new report.
I accept this must've been worrying for Mr H. And I appreciate he was already struggling with 
stress and anxiety. However, as I've said, it explained what had happened to Mr H quickly, 
and sent a new report to him. So I think Equifax's offer of £100 is fair in the circumstances.
With regards to the third party lender completing a search on Mr H, our investigator is correct 
in that Mr H will need to refer that to the lender. Equifax has correctly challenged this with 
the lender, and it isn't required to do anything further.
I also agree with our investigator in that Mr H had long been aware of the other people's 
names being associated with his credit file. They've been associated with him for many 
years and Mr H has been receiving his credit reports showing these associations. And had 
he been concerned about this, I think he would've raised it sooner. So I don't think this has 
caused any additional distress to Mr H and I'm not recommending Equifax do anything 
further now that it has removed the associations.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman