DRN-1890597
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) wont repair her kitchen floor after 
it was damaged during work on the drains.
What happened
Mrs E had home emergency cover with BG, including plumbing and drains cover. Mr E dealt 
with the complaint on her behalf, so I will refer to him throughout my decision. Any reference 
to BG includes agents acting on its behalf.
Mr E reported moss on the wall around the soil pipe. BG carried out a pressure test and 
identified a problem with the rest bend and soil vent pipe. It replaced the plastic pipe.
Six months later, Mr E told BG that water was leaking from the back doorstep. BG twice tried 
to film the inside of the drain, but the CCTV equipment failed. Based on its investigation 
without the CCTV evidence, BG thought the leak was coming from the gully. With Mr Es 
permission it dug up the floor in the utility room to check the drain. BG found that the pipe 
didnt end at the gully as expected, instead it had a blank end which ran to the side. BG 
removed the blank end and replaced the pipework so that it ran straight to the gully.
Mr E complained that BG hadnt needed to dig up the floor to access the gully because the 
leak wasnt from there. BG said that the blank end had been poorly connected and wouldve 
been the fault of the previous installer. Therefore, BG thought it wasnt covered under the 
policy, so it had gone over and above what was required of it. Mr E didnt think BG could be 
sure that the damage was already there, and he thought BG had dug up part of the floor 
unnecessarily. He asked it to pay for the floor to be repaired. BG refused, but it paid £50 in 
recognition of poor service caused by its agents providing differing information.
Mr E remained unhappy and wanted BG to fix the floor.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that BG had gone beyond what 
was required of it under the terms of the policy and thought the £50 compensation was 
enough to address the service shortfall.
Mr E didnt agree, and he questioned BGs version of events.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise he will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill 
explain.
Theres a lot of correspondence and technical detail to Mr Es complaint, and the events took 
place over more than a year. Im not an expert in plumbing and drainage and nor am I 
expected to be. My role is to look at how BG dealt with Mr Es claim and decide whether it 
was fair and in line with his policy. Ive taken a simplistic approach to it so that the key issues 
can be identified easily. That means Ive avoided technical reference where I can, and 
events may not be referred to in the order in which they happened, but I have considered the 
evidence carefully.
I dont think theres a dispute about the repair to the rest bend and soil vent pipe. But its 
important to mention it because of the pressure test BG carried out when investigating that 
leak. Because of the debris he saw coming out, Mr E thinks theres a possibility that the 
pressure test couldve damaged the capped end of the pipe by the gully. This is the bit that 
BG said was an existing fault, meaning the policy didnt cover it, 
Our products dont include cover for any faults that: Were already therecaused by 
anybody other than usWe couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before. 
For example, faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, which are buried under 
concrete floors. 
I agree with Mr E here. Its not for me to conclude whether the pipe was installed incorrectly, 
but it is BGs responsibility to provide enough evidence to show that it was more likely due to 
existing faulty workmanship than its pressure testing or excavation of the surrounding area.
Had the CCTV equipment worked properly, then this issue may have been easily concluded. 
But the equipment didnt record on either occasion, so BG went ahead with digging up the 
floor to complete a repair based on its expert assessment of the situation. I think thats 
reasonable and I can see that Mr E agreed to it at the time. It seems that BG wanted to 
avoid further inconvenience to Mr E by going ahead with the work it suspected needed doing 
rather than repeatedly try to view the inside of the drains. I think its actions were well-
intended - BG replaced the gully with new pipes, removed the blank end, and fitted a new 
surround. I know there were issues with the gully surround cracking, but its clear that BG 
completed that repair. 
BG didnt think the problem with the drains fell under the policy cover because the gully and 
blank end werent of sound workmanship. So it thinks the work it has already done has gone 
over and above what is required of it. But as Ive explained, I dont think it has provided 
enough evidence to support its view that the leak was caused by a pre-existing fault. So, Im 
inclined to think that the leak wouldve been covered under the policy, 
Drains
Whats covered
Repairing leaks to internal waste water pipes and external soil and vent pipes.
Mr E thinks that because BG dug up the floor unnecessarily to repair the gully which wasnt 
broken, it should pay for the full cost of restoring it to its original condition. I dont agree. 
While I dont think BG can prove that the uncapped blank end was due to faulty 
workmanship, I dont think Mr E can be sure that it wasnt. BG determined that there was a 
leak from the uncapped blank end of pipe next to the gully. It initially thought the leak was 
from the gully because of the way the drains were positioned, but I dont think that matters. 
In digging up the floor to repair what it thought was a damaged gully, it found a leak from the 
blank end and replaced it with new plastic drains leading directly to the gully. I dont think its 
fair to say that was detrimental to Mr E. 
As its not clear how the blank end was damaged, given the lack of certainty I think its fair 
that BG completed the repair as if it were covered under the policy, Definitions
access and making good
- getting to  and then repairing any damage we may cause in getting accessby filling in 
holes we have made and leaving a level surface  but we wont replace or restore the 
original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings
But as its equally possible that the damage was pre-existing, I dont think BG needs to go 
beyond the policy terms. So I wont be asking it to repair the floor tiling.
The photos provided show that BG has done what is required in line with the policy and it 
appears that the final repairs may be easily achieved, which is what this term sets out to do. 
I can see that the policy provides cover up to £1000 for making good, but that doesnt 
mean BG should pay for as much restoration as possible up to the value of £1000. Its a limit 
set to cover extensive damage caused during work carried out to identify the source of the 
leak. The policy makes it clear that it doesnt include resurfacing with the original flooring so, 
for that reason, I dont think its fair to ask BG to contribute to the cost of re-tiling the floor.
BG told Mr E he was covered under his policy for pipework within his property boundary, 
whereas its agent told him he was only covered within the footprint of his house (the building 
itself). The policy defines property as a home and all the land up to your boundary  
including any detached outbuildings, so I think its clear that BG gave correct information. 
However, as the agent who gave incorrect information was acting on its behalf, BG is 
responsible for the lack of clarity. BG paid Mr E £50 by way of apology. I think it was helpful 
that it recognised its service shortfalls, even though it believed it had completed work not 
covered by the policy. For the inconvenience caused by the faulty equipment and the 
contradictory information, I think its a fair amount. I wont be asking BG to pay any more. 
In summary, BG damaged Mr Es floor during its investigation into a leak. It found the leak 
was coming from a pipe next to where it thought the leak would be and repaired it. Theres 
no evidence that the pipe was a pre-existing fault so it would reasonably be covered under 
Mr Es policy. BG repaired the damage to the standard required of it in line with the policy 
and paid Mr E £50 for service shortfalls. Im satisfied that this is a fair outcome and I wont 
be asking BG to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman