DRN-3167302
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about St Andrews Insurance Plcs decision to decline a
claim and avoid their home insurance policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for malicious damage caused by tenants. Initially they said the 
damage had been caused while the tenants were living in a property Mr and Mrs S rented 
out through a letting agent. When St Andrews told Mrs S this damage was excluded under 
the policy, Mr and Mrs S said the tenants came back after being evicted and caused 
damage. St Andrews rejected their claim and cited a fraud exclusion under the policy. St 
Andrews avoided all policies Mr and Mrs S held with it.
Mrs S complained about their decision on her and her husbands behalf. Our investigator
thought St Andrews had acted reasonably.
I issued my first provisional decision on 5 July 2021. I thought on balance that St Andrews 
hadnt shown that Mr and Mrs S knowingly or recklessly provided information or documents 
that were fraudulent or dishonestly exaggerated a claim. I thought Mr and Mrs S had 
reasonably claimed only for the post eviction damage  not appreciating when they first 
reported the claim that it mattered when the tenants had caused the damage  as this 
depended on whether the damage was covered under the policy.
St Andrews didnt agree and referred me to an email Mrs S sent shortly after she called to
make their claim. St Andrews says the damage reported in this e-mail was consistent with 
the damage reported in the first notification of loss call and the call made by the letting 
agent. It did not tally with the story now being told by the customer that only £300 worth of 
damage was caused on the 26th November 2019.
We put St Andrews comments about Mrs Ss email to her. Mrs S said that they have only
ever given a figure to represent the damage caused after eviction. She said she has had to
translate the information each time to Mr S  and asked that we look at all communication
between them and St Andrews. Mrs S said she has had insurance for almost 30 years, so
asked why she would make a fraudulent claim now.
On 29 September 2019 I issued a second provisional decision and I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. On reconsideration I thought Mr and Mrs S hadnt provided consistent 
accounts as to what damage had been caused before and after the tenants were evicted. So 
I thought St Andrews decision to avoid the policies was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S asked for a copy of the information this service relied on to reach a decision. 
This has been provided. As the deadline for Mr and Mrs S to provide any new comments on 
that information has now passed, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains along the same lines as my second provisional 
decision. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. But this means I 
dont intend to uphold their complaint. 
St Andrews say that Mr and Mrs S exaggerated their claim in order to benefit from the 
policy. When discovering in the first notification call that malicious damage caused by
tenants while living in the property wasnt covered, they said a lot of damage had been
caused after eviction.
In my first provisional decision I said:
I appreciate that Mrs S confirmed three times that the damage was caused while the
tenants were living there. I think this is correct for the majority of the damage, so I
dont think Mrs S set out to deceive St Andrews here. I think Mr and Mrs S believed
the damage would be covered as they say all of it was caused by the tenants. So I
can understand why they didnt mention the damage caused after they were evicted
 until the agent explained that damage caused while tenants were lawfully there was
excluded. As this meant Mr and Mrs S needed to differentiate the damage, given the
circumstances and condition of the property as they described, I can understand why
this wasnt a clear straight forward thing for them to be able to do in the call. Mrs S
said they would need to check this with the letting agent.
Following the call, St Andrews asked Mr and Mrs S to detail the damage caused pre and
post eviction in order to consider their claim. In response to my first provisional decision, St 
Andrews highlighted Mrs Ss comments from the email she sent dated 24 February 2020.
The tenants were evicted by bailiffs on the 25th of November 2019. This eviction
took place due to the high level of complaints I got from the neighbourhood and the
local council. The tenants left on the 25th of November 2919. The locks of the
property were changed on the 25th of November 2019. On the 26 November 2019
both front doors of the property were broken and the property was very badly
vandalised. I believe that they vandalised the property and broke the windows and
doors because they were forced out of the property by the court bailiffs. The kitchen,
bedrooms, toilet, bathroom, shower room, walls, electric switches, doors and carpet
was all vandalised.
St Andrews says the damage in this e-mail is consistent with the damage reported in the
first notification of loss call and the call made by the letting agent. It does not tally with the
story now being told by the customer that only £300 worth of damage was caused on the
26th November 2019. 
After careful consideration of the email Mrs S sent to St Andrews shortly after the notification
call, I think the damage Mr and Mrs S intended to claim for is more consistent with the
damage described when they called St Andrews as being caused while the tenants were
living there.
In September 2020 St Andrews challenged Mr and Mrs S about their account  after
receiving the police report from June 2019 which listed similar damage caused by the
tenants while living there. In response in November 2020, Mrs S reported the post eviction
damage for repairs was to both front doors and frames, a broken window, graffiti on the wall
and broken ceiling fans. She said the cost to repair this damage came to £263.98.
However, I dont think this damage is consistent with Mrs Ss email dated 24 February 2020
detailing her intended claim. She described the property as being very badly vandalised withsignificant damage to several rooms including electrics as well as to external doors and
windows.
So in line with my second provisional decision, on reconsideration I think Mr and Mrs S 
havent been consistent with their account as to what damage was caused by the tenants 
pre and post eviction. I think St Andrews has shown that Mr and Mrs S changed their 
account of when the majority of damage was caused from before eviction  which wasnt 
covered  to post eviction  in order to try and benefit from the policy. I think Mrs S only 
reduced the post eviction damage being claimed for after St Andrews received the police 
report and challenged their account.
I realise Mr and Mrs S will be upset with my decision. But having carefully considered 
everything, I dont think St Andrews decision to avoid their policies and not meet their claim 
was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman