DRN-4459860
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc defaulted his account after hed entered a payment
arrangement with them.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card with Santander which was in arrears. In October 2022, Mr G spoke
with Santander and agreed to a 15-month payment plan whereby he would pay £196.05 per
month. But while Santander had agreed to the payment plan with Mr G, they never put the
plan in place on his account. And this meant that Mr G continued to receive correspondence
from Santander which said that he was in arrears and that he needed to contact Santander.
Mr G did contact Santander, having received correspondence from them. But when he did,
he was incorrectly told that he had a payment arrangement in place and that the letters were
being sent to him automatically and that he could ignore them. Mr G did ignore the letters,
and so the arrears on his account grew, such that Santander eventually defaulted the
account. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander apologised to Mr G and acknowledged that theyd made mistakes. Santander
offered to remove the default from Mr Gs account, but they required him to clear the arrears
on the account first, before they would do so. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Santanders
response and felt that Santander mistakenly defaulting his account had caused him to incur
significant financial losses. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Santander asking Mr G to
clear the account arrears before they would remove the default from his credit file was
reasonable. And they didnt feel it could fairly be said that Mr G had incurred the financial
losses he had solely as a result of Santanders actions. However, our investigator did
recommend that Santander should make a payment of £200 to Mr G to compensate him for
the trouble and upset their errors had caused. Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 October 2023 as follows:
Santander dont dispute that theyve made several compounding errors here. These include
that Santander didnt set up the payment plan theyd agreed with Mr G and that they later
incorrectly told Mr G that the payment plan had been set up and that he could ignore the
arrears letter he was receiving from them.
In their response to Mr Gs complaint, Santander explained that they would be happy to
remove the default theyd incorrectly added towards the end of 2022, but that Mr G would
need to clear the arrears that had accrued on his account before theyd be willing to do so.
And Santander have explained to this service that they now require Mr G to clear the full
outstanding balance of the account before theyd be willing to remove the default that theyd
incorrectly applied.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and my provisional decision here will be that I uphold this
complaint and that Santander must remove the default from Mr Gs credit file immediately
without any requirement for any payment from Mr G at this time. Additionally, Santander
must return Mr Gs account to the position it should have been in at the point that it was
incorrectly defaulted by them.
This includes writing off any interest or charges that have been applied to the account since
the point of default. And Santander must retrospectively apply a balance and payments
freeze to the account from the point of default to when the account is correctively restored 
effectively suspending the account and the payment plan from the point of default to when
Santander undertake this corrective action.
I take this position because it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that Mr G would have
stopped making the payments to the account that hed agreed to make after discovering that
Santander had incorrectly and unfairly defaulted his account. And I feel it should be for
Santander to bear the discomfort of rectifying their mistakes here  given that it was
Santander who broke the agreement they had made with Mr G  which I feel should fairly be
that Mr Gs account is returned to the position it was in when the default was incorrectly
applied so that Mr G can continue with that plan from the position it in when it was
unreasonably interrupted by Santander defaulting Mr Gs account.
Santander must also ensure that Mr G incurs no adverse credit file reporting because of their
mistakes. This should fairly be that the balance and status of the account is retrospectively
reported as it was before the default until the default is removed and Mr G resumes making
payments to the account, in line with the payment plan that Im instructing should effectively
be considered as having been suspended.
And importantly, given that Mr G has unfairly had this default on his credit file for an
unreasonable length of time already, I will only be allowing 14-days for all parties to provide
responses to this provisional decision  as I have no intention of allowing this matter to draw
out any further than necessary from this point.
It's also clear that Mr G has incurred significant upset and inconvenience for which he should
fairly be compensated here. And I feel that this has been exacerbated by Santander not
acting to remove the incorrectly added default as a matter of urgency when it was first
recognised as being added incorrectly and unfairly by them. As such, my provisional
instructions include that Santander must make a payment of £750 to Mr G, as compensation
for the significant and prolonged worry and frustration hes unreasonably had to incur here.
Finally, Mr G has asked this service to consider several losses that he feels that hes
incurred as a consequence of Santanders actions. These include that Mr G wasnt able to
be a joint party with his wife on a mortgage or car finance, both of which his wife had to take
herself, and that he has lost out professionally due to the requirements of his employment.
I can appreciate Mr Gs position here. But the criteria this service seeks to confirm in regard
to claimed consequential losses is quite strict. In short, we require evidence that any claimed
loss has arisen solely as the result of the actions of the business being complained about.
And, upon review, Im not convinced that Mr G has been able to evidence this.
Additionally, from a fairness perspective, some of the losses Mr G is claiming involve that hehasnt been able to obtain a share of financial gains that his wife has made on her own. And
in such circumstance, I wouldnt feel that it would be fair to instruct Santander to reimburse
that claimed loss to Mr G, given that his legal spouse has received the financial benefit
herself which he seeks to claim.
All of which means that I wont be provisionally instructing Santander to make any payment
to Mr G regarding the consequential losses that hes claimed. I realise that Mr G will likely
disagree with this part of my provisional decision, but Id like to reassure him that my position
on this matter shouldnt reasonably affect his ability to pursue these claimed consequential
losses via other channels, such as a Court of Law, should he wish to do so.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and made a counter proposal based on the 
fact that they had taken the commercial decision to longer offer banking services to Mr G. 
This led to me issuing an amended provisional decision, on 9 November 2023, as follows:
Mr G responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that he was happy to accept it.
Santander also responded to my provisional decision and explained that they were unhappy
with my provisional instruction for them to reinstate Mr Gs account because they had made
the commercial decision to no longer provider banking services to Mr G.
Because of this, Santander made a proposal whereby they would write off the remaining
account balance of £2,616.83 so that Mr G owed no money to them relating to the account
and also that they would remove the default and amend Mr Gs credit file in line with what I
had instructed. Santander also explained that because they were proposing to write off a
significant balance that Mr G owed, they didnt feel my provisional instruction to pay £750 to
Mr G as compensation for the trouble and upset hes incurred was still fairly merited.
I put Santanders proposal to Mr G, and he responded by explaining that he would like the
instructions I gave in my provisional decision to stand. However, while I can appreciate that
this would be Mr Gs preference here, this service cant, ultimately, compel a business to
provide its services to an individual which that business has taken the decision to no longer
provider its services to.
This means that, in this instance, while I could instruct Santander to reinstate Mr Gs
account, there would be nothing to prevent Santander then issuing an account closure notice
to Mr G, in line with the terms of that account. And given that Santanders account terms
permit the closure of an account with given notice at the discretion of the Santander, its
unlikely that I would feel it to be wrong or unfair for Santander to provide such closure notice.
It therefore seems nonsensical to me to instruct Santander to reinstate Mr Gs account in this
instance, because Santander have confirmed that theyre no longer willing to provide
banking services to Mr G.
Accordingly, I find Santanders proposal to write off the remaining £2,616.83 and to remove
all adverse reporting, including the default, from Mr Gs credit file to be a fair and reasonable
proposal. I say this because Mr G would no longer be required to make any repayment
towards this account  as he would have been required to, had the account been reinstated.
And because the removal of all adverse reporting from Mr Gs credit file is in line with my
instructions regarding credit file reporting in my initial provisional decision.
Finally, Im also in agreement that because Santander have agreed to write off the £2,616.83
that Mr G owes on the account, it wouldnt be fair for me to instruct them to pay the £750
compensation to Mr G for the upset and trouble hes incurred. In short, this is because I feelSantanders proposal to write off the account balance is generous and already provides fair
compensation to Mr G for what has happened here.
Both Mr G and Santander responded to my amended provisional decision and confirmed 
they were happy to accept it. As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Gs 
favour on the basis described in my amended provisional decision. And I therefore confirm 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Santander must write off the remaining balance of Mr Gs account.
Santander must also remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Mr Gs credit 
file, including the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman