DRN-2640650
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable loans. 
He says if any sort of effective assessment would have shown that he couldnt repay these 
loans.  
  
Background
L2G provided Mr B with four loans for amounts between £400 and £1,000 in August 2019, 
October 2019 and January 2020 and June 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing loans 1 and 2 but it shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4 as proportionate 
checks would have shown they were unaffordable. Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicator 
but L2G did and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. As the parties are no 
longer in dispute about loans 1 and 2, this decision is only looking whether L2G acted fairly 
and reasonably when providing loans 3 and 4 to Mr B.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay loans 3 and 4 in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay loans 3 and 4 in a sustainable way?
L2G provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant that L2G 
had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to 
providing him with all of his loans. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs checks suggested   
Mr B had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But Mr B took out four loans in less than a year. 
So I think that L2G should have been concerned at why Mr B needed this many loans. And 
L2Gs credit checks also showed that Mr Bs overall debt burden was increasing. Bearing in 
mind these circumstances, I think its reasonable and proportionate to have expected L2G to 
have taken additional steps to verify the information it received. And I think that L2G needed 
to take additional steps to verify Mr Bs actual monthly expenditure. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr B with these loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr B would have 
been unable to repay his loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told L2G that Mr B would have 
been unable to sustainably repay his loans.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr B was 
struggling to manage his finances. Most of his income was being taken up by his 
repayments to his existing commitments. And when his living expenses are added to this,  
Mr B simply didnt have enough to be able to repay loans 3 and 4. So I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown L2G that Mr B was unlikely to be able to repay 
loans 3 and 4 without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr B would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr B was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
Did Mr B lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with his loans?
As Mr B paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on loan 3;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges     
Mr B paid from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 
originally lent. L2G should treat any payments made should the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr B with 
interest added at 8% simple a year;
If after all adjustments have been made an outstanding balance remains on loan 4, L2G can 
use the compensation due for loan 3 to reduce this. 
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on an 
outstanding balance, should one remain on loan 4 after all adjustments have been made to 
the account, and its the case that Mr B is experiencing financial difficulty.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman