DRN-2093864
The complaint
Mr N complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited caused unnecessary 
delays whilst he was trying to find a missing pension fund. These delays meant the value of 
the pension reduced and he missed out on some monthly payments once the pension was 
found. 
In this complaint Mr N is represented by Ms J, who has power of attorney (POA) over his 
affairs as hes seriously ill, so all the enquiries and correspondence has been dealt with by 
Ms J on his behalf.
What happened
Ms J was dealing with Mr Ns financial affairs and was trying to find out about any pensions 
he may have. She found a letter from a pensions advisory company informing him he had a 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Defined Benefit pension. Ms J made enquiries and found that 
Thermo Fisher pensions may be administered by Prudential, so wrote to Prudential in 
August 2019, but it was unable to find a pension so asked for some more details. These 
were provided by Ms J and a pension was found, but the details of which could only be given 
if the POA document was sent in. Once this was received Prudential wrote in October 2019 
saying the pension it found in Mr Ns name had no value. But Ms J noted this pension had a 
different reference number to the one she had given Prudential. 
Ms J made further calls to Prudential and found out that the pension it had referred to was 
one that Mr N had made no contributions to and wasnt the one she was asking about.
Ms J continued her search and managed to find out who was administering his missing 
pension. Mr N began receiving payments from it in December 2019.
Whilst Ms J was making these further enquiries, she complained to Prudential about the 
delays and misleading information it had given her. In its final response letter in 
November 2019, Prudential apologised for the vague wording of the letter it had sent in 
October. It acknowledged the frustration she had been caused in spending so much time 
finding out about what had happened to the pension, and offered £250 in compensation.
Ms J didnt accept this and complained to our service. She said the delays in Prudentials 
responses had meant a downward movement in the market had reduced the value of Mr Ns 
pension pot from approx. £38,000 to approx. £34,000. And had the delays not occurred he 
would have been able to take benefits from his pension earlier.
Our investigator agreed that Prudential had caused some confusion with the wording in its 
October 2019 letter, and the level of service it had given Ms J wasnt what it shouldve been. 
But he thought the £250 compensation was fair and reasonable given the stress and anxiety 
it caused. He also thought it wouldnt be fair to require Prudential to compensate Mr N for the 
reduction in value of his pension pot, as this was as a result of market fluctuation, and there 
was no guarantee that the value of the pot would have been higher had the delays not 
occurred.
Ms J didnt agree. She thought the £250 wasnt enough to reflect the hassle and time 
wasted. She also thought Mr N could probably have had a couple of extra months income 
from his pension had Prudential not made the mistakes it had. And she thought that the 
delay in finding his pension had been caused by Prudentials mistakes and the confusion it 
caused. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say I have a great deal of sympathy for both Mr N and Ms J given the poor 
and very distressing state of his health now. And I understand why the issue at the heart of 
this complaint is so important. But I have to look at the matter from an independent point of 
view and come to a fair decision on the basis of the evidence. And having done so, Im not 
going to require Prudential to do anything more than they have already offered. Ill explain 
why.
Ms J only became aware of the existence of Mr Ns defined benefit pension when she found 
a letter about it from a pension advisory company. This company offered to trace the 
pension for a fee. But by doing her own research she found that pensions from Mr Ns work 
may be administered by Prudential. 
Researching anything like this is going to take time, so there is going to be an element of 
frustration if, as in this case, possible avenues of information turn out to be a dead end. 
Ultimately, Prudential didnt have any useful information for her in relation to the particular 
pension held by Mr N, but I need to decide if the delays and poor service it provided whilst 
the enquiries were being made meant she was delayed in finding the actual administrator of 
the missing pension. And if it did, what effect did this have.
Prudential have acknowledged that it didnt respond to Ms Js initial enquiry quickly enough, 
but as this was only a few days Im satisfied this didnt have a significant impact on its own. 
Ms J found she had to send Prudential details of the POA twice, but I can see why this was 
necessary. When it was sent the first time Prudential was unable to find any pension relating 
to Mr N, so sent it back as it was unable to attach it to a file that was known to it. Only when 
it had received further details from Ms J did it find a pension, so it needed the POA to 
release the information. I can understand why this happened and Im satisfied Prudential 
acted reasonably here. Its likely that the pension was difficult to find as it wasnt an active 
one, but I see it took about three weeks to find and to then request the POA, which I think is 
probably a little longer than was necessary. 
Prudential wrote to Ms J on 23 October 2019. It said it had found Mr Ns pension but it was 
of no value. This letter was very unclear and confusing, and Prudential has acknowledged 
this. It meant Ms J had to ring Prudential and point out that the reference of the pension it 
had found was different to the one she was asking about. Prudential had to make further 
enquiries which resulted in a further few days delay, before Ms J was told the pension she 
was enquiring about was not administered by Prudential.  
So, Im satisfied there were three short delays which were the responsibility of Prudential, 
but having looked at the timeline of events, I dont think the cumulative effect of these was 
any more than about a 2-3 week delay to the process of Ms J finding the pension.Ms J has said that the value of Mr Ns pension pot fell during the delays, and he missed two 
or three monthly payments. But given I think the delay was only a maximum of 2-3 weeks, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say Prudential was responsible for either of these 
outcomes. The financial markets are subject to falls and rises, and even if Ms J had found 
and reached the administrator of the pension 2-3 weeks earlier, there is no guarantee the 
value of the pension would have been higher at that point. And I also should note that the 
scheme is a defined benefits scheme, which means the monthly payments are not affected 
by its value, nor market fluctuations, and its value would only be an issue should he have 
chosen to transfer it into another scheme. 
But ultimately, Prudential werent the administrators of Mr Ns pension, and only did what 
Ms J asked them to do. Whilst I completely understand her logic and thinking when she 
decided to first approach Prudential, had she initially identified and contacted the correct 
business, these delays wouldnt have happened. So Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Prudential responsible for any missed pension payments. 
In respect to the compensation Prudential have offered for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused by the delays and the confusing letter, Im satisfied that £250 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and in line with what our service would expect. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman