DRN-3161939
The complaint
Mr G complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited settled the other drivers 
claim after he was involved in an accident, when he believes that the other driver was at 
fault. He also complains about how the details of the accident have been recorded on 
insurance industry databases.
What happened
Mr G had motor insurance with Watford. He was involved in an accident on 17 December 
2020 but didnt initially report this to Watford. They emailed him on 21 December 2020, as 
theyd been notified of a personal injury claim made by the other driver, reminding him of his 
obligation to report any incident within 48 hours. Mr G contacted Watford the same day and 
after a discussion, was sent an Accident Report Form to complete to clarify the accident 
circumstances.
Mr G told Watford that hed pulled out of a side road and was established on the main road, 
when he saw the other drivers vehicle approaching from behind at speed. He tried to take 
evasive action by swerving. But the other vehicle couldnt stop in time, it hit the kerb and 
then collided with his car. 
Watford received a claim from the driver of the other car, who held Mr G responsible for the 
accident. Hed told his insurers that hed been travelling along the main road when Mr G 
pulled out from a side road into the path of his vehicle. Hed tried to stop but was unable to 
avoid a collision. 
Watford considered the accounts provided by Mr G and the other driver and felt that Mr G 
would be held responsible for the accident. This was because hed emerged from a side 
road, onto the main road along which the other driver was travelling, shortly before the 
accident. And they didnt think that theyd be able to successfully argue that the other drivers 
speed caused the accident. So they agreed to settle the other drivers claim and recorded a 
fault claim against Mr Gs policy.
Mr G complained as he was unhappy that Watford had agreed to deal with the other drivers 
claim. He said theyd ignored what he and his passenger had said about the other drivers 
speed. That he was already established on the main road and thered been no sign of the 
other car when he pulled out. And that theyd wrongly concluded that the damage to the 
vehicles supported the other drivers account of the accident.
Mr G also complained that Watford had reached their decision without either visiting the 
scene of the accident or inspecting the damage to his car. He believes that if theyd done 
this, theyd have accepted his account of the accident.
Watford said that considering the accident location and damage to Mr Gs car it appeared 
that hed caused the accident. And they said they couldnt prove that the other vehicles 
speed caused the accident. So they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G then complained to our service. He raised the following issues: -
It took over nine weeks for Watford to respond to his complaint.
Watfords final response letter didnt address all the concerns hed raised and 
contains factual inaccuracies.
Watford had based their decision to accept the other drivers claim on inaccurate 
information.
Watford hadnt understood or considered fully the information hed provided.
Watfords staff who dealt with his claim werent adequately qualified or trained.
They hadnt properly investigated the accident, as they hadnt visited the location, or 
inspected the damage to his car.
They had dismissed the other drivers speed, even though Mr G says he admitted 
exceeding the speed limit at the scene of the accident.
Hed suffered financial losses because of being held responsible for accident and it 
had also impacted on his mental health.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt think that Watford needed to take any action. 
He said our role isnt to decide who was responsible for an accident. It was to consider 
whether Watford had handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
He said that under the terms of Mr Gs policy Watford had the right to take over the conduct 
and settlement of claims. So they could use their discretion provided their decisions were fair 
and reasonable. And this included assessing whether a case could be successfully defended 
if it went to court.
Mr G had said that he and his passenger, his partner, could give evidence about the speed 
of the other car prior to the collision. And Watford should have taken this into account, as it 
was admissible evidence. Our investigator agreed that their evidence was admissible, but 
said it wasnt compelling, as it couldnt be considered independent. So he felt Watfords view 
that it wouldnt prove Mr G wasnt at fault was reasonable.
Our investigator didnt think it was necessary for Watford to inspect the accident location and 
the damage to Mr Gs car. He said theyd had his account of the accident and had 
photographs of the damage. He thought it was reasonable for Watford to say that collecting 
further evidence was unlikely to change their view of the case. And he felt theyd looked at 
the evidence about the speed of the other car fairly.
Our investigator also looked at what Mr G had said about the area of damage to his car 
being wrongly recorded by Watford. He acknowledged that the reference to damage to the 
drivers side door was incorrect, as the damage was to the drivers side rear door and 
quarter panel, but he said the important issue was that the damage was to the drivers side 
of the car. And he didnt think the misstatement in Watfords letter had any impact on the 
outcome of the case.
Our investigator didnt think there was anything to support Mr Gs view that the case 
handlers whod dealt with his claim werent properly qualified or trained. And he said that 
after eight weeks Mr G was entitled to bring his claim to our service, so this wasnt an issue 
wed really comment on. But he didnt think this had a significant impact. 
Finally, he considered Mr Gs complaint that Watford had concluded that he was responsible 
for the accident. He said that Watford were entitled to exercise their judgment in considering 
the evidence and the likely outcome if the case went to court. He felt they weighed the 
available evidence fairly and considered whether any further evidence would make a 
difference. So he thought their conclusion was fair and reasonable.Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion. Hes said the following: -
He doesnt accept that his passengers evidence isnt independent, he regards it as 
compelling and says they witnessed the accident, saw the other car approaching at 
speed from behind, and heard the other driver admitting that he was speeding.
All Watfords conclusions were based on assumptions as they didnt inspect the 
accident location or either vehicle.  He believes that had they done this it would 
strengthen his case, and its not fair for Watford to make assumptions based on poor 
photographs.
He couldnt explain the accident circumstances in greater detail, due to the size of 
the box on the accident report form Watford sent him. So they didnt look at the 
evidence fairly, because they didnt have enough information to make an informed 
decision without making assumptions. And when he complained Watford didnt 
address some of the points he raised.
He doesnt accept that the important issue about the damage to his car is that its to 
the drivers side of his car. He believes Watford based their conclusion that he was at 
fault based on the damage to his car being in the wrong place.
He believes Watfords staff who are assessing claims should have training in 
assessing damage and accident locations.
He says that Watford didnt issue their final response letter in time and didnt deal 
with his SAR request correctly. Hed reported this to the Information Commissioners 
Office whod required them to take action.
Although he accepts that Watford are entitled to exercise their judgment, he says the 
process was flawed and they accepted the other drivers claim, when he and his 
passenger could give evidence that the other driver was at fault.
He believes a fair outcome would be for Watford to reinstate his no claims bonus and 
remove the fault marker from his policy and any database.
Finally, he believes Watford provided a poor level of customer service and didnt 
work hard enough to dispute liability for the accident or assess the evidence properly.
Since our investigator provided his opinion Mr G has sent us some photographs which he 
says show damage to the kerb at the accident location.
The case has now come to for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at whether Watford carried out a reasonable investigation of the accident 
circumstances, before deciding that Mr G would be found responsible for the accident. Its 
not our role to decide who was at fault for the accident.
Mr G is unhappy that Watford didnt respond to his complaint within the eight weeks a 
business is allowed. I appreciate he wanted Watfords response to his complaint, but he could have brought his complaint to our service as soon as the eight weeks had passed. Ive 
seen what Mr G has said about his SAR request and the action taken by the ICO. But thats 
a separate issue and not one this service is able to comment on.
At the heart of this complaint is that Mr G doesnt agree with the decision Watford reached 
when they decided he was responsible for the accident. It follows that hes not going to be 
happy with how they assessed the evidence. And he believes the evidence hes provided 
was wrongly assessed because Watford didnt accept that it shows that he, rather than the 
other driver, was at fault.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy allow Watford to take over the handling and 
settlement of any claim. 
Insurance companies are used to making assessments of who is likely to be found at fault 
when an accident has occurred. This is part of their day to day work and, in many cases, this 
is done by looking at images of the accident location and the damage to the parties 
vehicles, as well as considering the accounts provided by the parties. So unless that 
evidence is inconclusive, which I dont think it is here, I dont agree that an inspection of the 
accident location and vehicles was necessary.
Mr G has questioned the qualifications of Watfords staff to assess the evidence in this case. 
As Mr G doesnt agree with the decision Watford made, I can understand why he might 
question this. But I havent seen anything to suggest they werent appropriately qualified
Mr G has now said that he wasnt given the opportunity to provide a full account of the 
accident to Watford, as the space provided on the accident report form was too small. He 
said this in October 2021, some considerable time after the accident. Watford had asked him 
to complete an accident report form to provide further information after he reported the 
accident by phone. Looking at the form Mr G completed, it appears to include all the 
information hes provided to us about the accident. And there was space available for him to 
write more if he wished to. And I havent seen anything that persuades me that if Mr G had 
added further information Watford wouldnt have considered this. 
Mr G accepts that he had turned out of a side road onto what would be considered the main 
road before the accident happened. He says that when he pulled out there was no sign of 
the other vehicle approaching. And it was only after hed completed his turn and was fully 
established on the main road, that he saw the other vehicle approaching his at speed, 
causing him to steer to the left to try and avoid a collision. 
When Watford considered the accident circumstances, I think they gave appropriate weight 
to the available evidence and assessed it fairly. Theyve considered that Mr G was the driver 
joining the main road.  Although hes said he was established, based on what hes said this 
was only for a matter of seconds and hed just changed into second gear. Ive considered 
what Mr G has said the evidence his partner could give about the other vehicles speed. I 
think its reasonable for Watford to say it wouldnt be considered independent, due to her 
relationship with him. And I accept that this was said based on their experience of dealing 
with claims and the weight courts give to such evidence.
Ive considered the photographs that Mr G has provided of the kerb close to the accident 
location, but these dont assist me in relation to how Watford considered the case. I accept 
that Watford referred in their final response letter to there being damage to the drivers side 
door of Mr Gs vehicle, and that this isnt correct. But the actual damage does appear to be 
consistent with the parties account of the accident. And taking into account the other 
evidence Watford considered, Im persuaded they carried out a reasonable assessment of the evidence before reaching their decision that the other drivers claim would be difficult to 
defend.  
Mr Gs policy entitles Watford to take over and settle any claim made against him. I 
understand that hes not happy with how they assessed the evidence. But having decided 
that they needed to settle the claim, Watford had to record this accurately as a fault claim 
against his policy and on the insurance databases. This is what they did, so I cant ask them 
to amend the entries. And as there was a fault claim against his policy this would have 
impacted on Mr G no claims bonus in accordance with his policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reason set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Watford Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman