DRN-3433504
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limiteds (HLAMs) 
handling of an ISA transfer.
What happened
Mrs B held an execution only account with HLAM. On 4 January 2021 HLAM received 
instructions to transfer Mrs Bs stocks and shares ISA to another provider in cash. HLAM 
processed the instruction and holdings were sold on 1 February 2021 with transfer 
completing on 3 February 2021.
Mrs B states that HLAM sold some of her shareholding at a low value and maintains that she 
should have been contacted before the sale was executed. Those acting on Mrs Bs behalf 
say that HLAM did not get the best possible price for the shares. Mrs B seeks compensation 
from HLAM for the difference in value of the shares.
HLAM say that an instruction to transfer is not progressed instantly, the request was 
processed just within the 30-day timeframe and there was no requirement to contact Mrs B 
before sale. HLAM rely on their terms and conditions, which state, Where we are instructed 
to transfer the full value of assets in your Account as cash, we will sell investments without 
further reference to you or your new provider .  . Further, it was open to Mrs B to have 
liquidated the shares herself at any point prior to the transfer.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought HLAM did nothing wrong in 
processing the transfer request as it was undertaken in line with their terms and conditions. 
Our investigator recognised that Mrs B wished the instruction had been completed earlier but 
HLAM had explained that they were working through a high volume of requests and the sale 
was executed at the best available price at the time it was processed. Further, whilst initially 
HLAM thought they had processed the request just outside the recommended period of 30 
calendar days, the transfer was completed within the recommended timeline. Our 
investigator noted that HLAM had also offered Mrs B £150 for the delay in considering her 
complaint.
Mrs B disagrees with the view. Those acting on her behalf, maintain that Mrs B faced losses 
as a result of delay in processing the transfer by HLAM.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain our role at the outset. We provide an informal dispute resolution 
service. We have no regulatory or disciplinary role, which means we cant tell a business 
how to operate. We consider each complaint on its own facts and where things have gone 
wrong, we look to compensate on a fair and reasonable basis.
Mrs B held a stocks and shares ISA with HLAM. As HLAM provided an execution only 
service it was for Mrs B to give HLAM instructions and for her to decide which trades to 
place and when. HLAM did not provide any advisory role.  
Mrs B decided to move to a new provider. A full cash transfer request was received by 
HLAM from the new provider on 4 January 2021. Under the applicable terms and conditions, 
HLAM processed this request without making any further contact with Mrs B or the new 
provider. I appreciate that Mrs B now says she had expected HLAM to contact her before 
selling the shares, but they were not required to do so under their terms and conditions. 
Further, Ive taken into account that it remained open to Mrs B to sell the shares herself if 
she was concerned about price volatility, but she took no steps to do so.
I understand that Mrs B is disappointed that she didnt achieve a higher price for the shares, 
but theres nothing to show that HLAM caused delay in executing the sale and Ive seen that 
the transfer completed within the recommended 30 day timeline. Ive also considered that 
the value of the shares was subject to market volatility and HLAM didnt provide any 
guarantees as to a sale price.
HLAM acknowledge delay in dealing with the complaint and theyve paid Mrs B £150 in 
compensation for this.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but for the reasons given I wont be asking HLAM to do 
anything more.
My final decision
In light of the above findings, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman