DRN-3045191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a silver single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy
was taken out in October 2019, to cover a holiday which was due to take place in April 2020.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D were unable to travel because their airline cancelled their flights
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. At the time of Mr and Mrs Ds intended trip,
the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) was advising against all but
essential international travel.
Mr and Mrs D had booked their flights and accommodation through a holiday provider based
abroad. The holiday provider originally told Mr and Mrs D that it would give them a partial
refund of the money theyd paid, so Mr and Mrs D made a claim for the remaining amount
under their policy with URV. I note that Mr and Mrs D have yet to receive this partial refund
from their holiday provider, so theyve since asked for this additional amount to be included
within their claim.
URV said Mr and Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered under either the abandonment or
cancellation sections of their policy, as the circumstances they found themselves in werent
listed as an insured event under their policy. Mr and Mrs D pointed out that their policy
doesnt contain any exclusion for government restrictions on travel and/or for pandemics.
But, URV said an insurance policy doesnt have to list every exclusion and that there were
other policies available on the market, at a higher cost, which would have provided the cover
Mr and Mrs D needed.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and brought their complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said the effect of this policy was to
leave Mr and Mrs D in a position where they wouldnt have been covered if theyd gone
ahead and travelled against FCDO advice, but they also werent covered if they cancelled
their trip because FCDO advice had changed. So, our investigator thought it would be fair 
and reasonable for URV to pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim. URV didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in August 2021. In it, I said;
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds
complaint.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the limits of what Mr and Mrs Ds policy
covers are set out in the policy terms and conditions. Their policy lists specific circumstances
which are insured. These listed, insured events define the cover available to them. It
wouldnt be reasonable or practical to expect an insurer to comprehensively set out every
circumstance which it doesnt wish to insure as a policy exclusion.
I understand Mr and Mrs D feel their claim should be covered under the section of cover set
out on page 11 of their policy terms and conditions entitled If you decide to abandon your
travel plans. However, as is usually the case with abandonment cover provided under
travel insurance policies, this section of the policy requires Mr and Mrs D to have checked-in/
arrived at their boarding gate on time. So, this section of cover only applies where the
policyholder has arrived at their point of international departure and their flight, sailing or
train is delayed there. This isnt what happened in this case  so I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds
claim is covered under this section of the policy.
I think the relevant section of the policy for Mr and Mrs Ds claim to be considered under is
set out on page 6, entitled If you are unable to go on your trip. This says URV will pay for
certain costs if a policyholder is unable to travel for one of the following reasons:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative
accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders
cancelled
Mr and Mrs Ds claim didnt arise for any of these reasons, so I dont think their claim is
covered under this section of the policy either.
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to be left in a position
where they had no cover if they cancelled their holiday due to a change in FCDO advice but
to also have no cover under the policy if they went ahead and travelled against FCDO
advice. But I dont think this was the situation Mr and Mrs D were in.
While the undated Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which URV has
provided as relating to Mr and Mrs Ds policy says, unless agreed with URV, there will be no
cover if the FCDO advises against travel to the policyholders destination, this exclusion isnt
contained anywhere within the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy.
The IPID doesnt form part of the contract between Mr and Mrs D and URV. The IPID
specifically says the following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the
contract which can be found in your policy documentation.
As there is no exclusion for travelling against FCDO advice contained in Mr and Mrs Ds
policy documentation, this exclusion doesnt form part of their contract. So, I dont think its
correct to conclude that Mr and Mrs D would have had no cover under their policy if theyd
gone ahead and travelled against FCDO advice (in the event that this had been possible).
Ive considered the other sections of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, but I dont think they have any
cover for the circumstances they found themselves in.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms
and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which
I could fairly ask URV to accept their claim.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
URV didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with my provisional 
findings and said, in summary:
they phoned their airline in March 2020 and were told there was no point turning up 
to the airport the following month;
the abandonment section of their insurance policy doesnt state that the policyholder 
must have checked-in nor that they must be at the point of international departure 
when the delay occurs in order for cover to apply;
URV told Mr and Mrs D that their policy didnt cover government restrictions or 
pandemics but, unlike other travel insurance policies, their policy doesnt contain any 
exclusions relating to these events;
following the logic set out in my provisional decision, the absence of an exclusion 
relating to government restrictions or pandemics in the policy terms and conditions 
means this doesnt form part of their contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The abandonment section of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, at page 11, says URV will pay certain 
costs in the event of the following;
You decided that you did not want to go on the trip because your transport providers 
service from your international departure point was delayed for 24 hours or more. 
But Mr and Mrs D didnt decide to cancel their trip because their flight was delayed for 24 
hours or more at airport (their international departure point). Instead, theyd been made 
aware the previous month that the government at their intended destination wouldnt be 
accepting tourist visas. I understand Mr and Mrs D spoke to their airline and I dont dispute 
what they say they were told, but the abandonment section of a travel insurance policy 
doesnt provide cover for situations where the policyholder is aware in advance that theyll be 
unable to travel.
The abandonment section of Mr and Mrs Ds policy says there is no cover if the 
policyholder didnt take all reasonable steps to ensure that theyd checked-in/arrived at the 
boarding gate on time. This means cover is only available where the policyholder has in fact 
checked-in/arrived at the boarding gate on time  and is, therefore, at their international 
departure point. I accept Mr and Mrs Ds reasons as to why they didnt turn up to the airport, 
but their situation simply isnt covered under this section of the policy. 
Its not realistic for an insurer to list every scenario which it doesnt wish to cover as an 
individual policy exclusion  nor would I expect it to. The limits of what is covered under 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy are set out as a list of specific insured events under the cancellation 
section. The cover for these specific listed insured events is then further limited by the policy 
exclusions. If a claim arises for a reason thats not listed as a specific insured event, as it 
has done here, then its not covered under the policy  regardless of whether there is an 
exclusion referring to that particular event or not. Mr and Mrs Ds policy doesnt contain any exclusion relating to claims for travelling against 
FCDO advice, so this exclusion doesnt form part of their contract. Theres no exclusion for 
government restrictions and/or pandemics in their policy, so such an exclusion doesnt form 
part of their contract either. But Mr and Mrs Ds claim hasnt been declined because of an 
exclusion relating to government restrictions and/or pandemics. Their claim has been 
declined because the circumstances they found themselves in dont meet the description of 
any of the specific listed insured events which are set out as being covered under their 
policy. 
The fact that other insurance policies may have exclusions relating to government 
restrictions and/or pandemics doesnt change my decision that the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim arent covered under the policy they held. 
For these reasons, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman