DRN-3488265
The complaint
Ms V complains that the way Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos
Card (Argos) handled her account, including issuing her statements, applying payments, and
applying interest is unfair.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 3 May 2022. I planned to come to the same outcome as 
our investigator, but for different reasons, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything additional they wanted me to  consider before I reached my final 
decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision.
What happened
Ms V has an Argos Card account that she uses to make purchases on. She often 
makes these purchases taking advantage of the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option 
available. This allows her to make purchases interest free provided that she pays in 
full by the due date, which could be many months later depending on the options 
available.
The terms and conditions of the card say the following regarding BNPL plans:
If you do not repay the balance of this BNPL Plan in full by the end of the 
BNPL Plan Period, interest will be charged daily on the remaining balance of 
the BNPL Plan at the Normal Credit Rate (29.9% per annum interest 
(variable)), backdated to the date of the original BNPL purchase. We refer to 
this as "Deferred Interest"
Ms V had a BNPL plan for £106.99 that was due to expire on 4 June 2020, she made 
this payment, but noticed on a subsequent statement that on 5 June 2020 she was 
charged £3.77 interest. She also noticed that she now had a Normal Credit (NC) of 
£171.63. She was unsure what this related to as she does not normally make 
purchases using the NC option.
NC balances accrue interest which is calculated on a daily basis from the date of 
purchase until the date of repayment.
Ms V contacted Argos in July via an online complaints platform, querying the above 
and noting that her July statement now showed her NC balance to be £793.61. She 
wanted an explanation for this as she believed she made her payments on time and 
could see she now had deferred interest payments and a late payment fee.
Argos issued its final response to Ms V, it didn't uphold her complaint but explained 
the breakdown of the credits and debits to her account, including how the interest 
was calculated and why the charges were applied.
Ms V was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator that considered the complaint didn't think it was one that should be 
upheld and explained they didn't think Argos had acted unfairly when applying the 
deferred interest and late charge to Ms V's account.
Ms V disagreed; she felt the investigator had missed the point of the complaint. In 
summary, she said her arguments were:
Why, when she makes payments to Argos on the date required, by internet 
banking, does Argos claim it takes days to reach it. This makes it difficult for her 
to make the payments on time.
Argos keep switching off her paper statements meaning she doesn't always 
receive
them and feels if she did, she would not have missed the payments.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
Argos has provided the list below of the BNPL plans Ms V had as of March 2020, at 
this time Ms V also had an NC purchase of £29.99 outstanding on her statement 
which was accruing interest:
Outstanding 
AmountDuration of 
plan (months)Expiring date 
of plan
1 £439.02 12 4 April 2020
2 £181.98 6 4 May 2020
3 £67.99 3 4 May 2020
4 £106.99 6 4 June 2020
5 £371.98 12 4 July 2020
6 £113.19 6 4 July 2020
7 £239.98 12 4 September
2020
8 £387.00 12 4 December
2020
9 £287.98 12 4 January 2021
In order for Ms V to avoid paying interest she needed to pay the full amount of each 
plan by the expiry date. Ms V made a payment of £439.02 for plan 1 which was 
received by Argos on 6 April 2020. As this was outside of the 12-month plan the 
balance had reverted to NC and deferred interest of £128.89 was added.
Ms V successfully cleared plans two, three and four. But was late with payments for 
plans five and six meaning these also incurred deferred interest and were added to 
the NC balance.Argos has acted in line with its terms and conditions when applying the deferred 
interest to the BNPL plans, so I can't say it's done anything wrong here. But I've gone 
on to consider Ms Vs point that she feels Argos made it difficult for her to pay on 
time, by not providing statements and taking too long to apply payments she did 
make.
Argos has provided copies of the statements from March 2020 until December 2020 
that it sent to Ms V. While I believe what Ms V has said about not receiving all of her 
statements, I am satisfied Argos sent them and as she received them sometimes, I 
can only assume this was a problem with the post and I can't fairly hold Argos 
responsible for that. Furthermore, each statement, of which its already accepted Ms 
V received some, contain the details of every BNPL plan that was outstanding and 
the dates these were due to expire. So, even if I accept Ms V didn't receive all the 
statements, she only needed to receive one to have the details she needed, to know 
when the BNPL plans were due to expire. So, I can't reasonably say she was 
unaware they were due.
Turning to the length of time Argos takes to apply credit payments. On the back of 
each statement there is a box with the title "How to Pay", in this box it details the 
various ways you can make payments to the Argos account. Alongside each option, 
it tells you how long it takes for the payment to be applied.  The ways listed on the 
back and the time it takes to apply the credits are similar to most other credit 
providers I've seen. So, it follows I don't believe Argos has made it difficult for Ms V 
to make her payments on time.
I know Ms V will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  
in trying to resolve her dispute with Argos can do for her.
I invited both parties to respond to me by 17 May 2022, neither did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded with further evidence or comments, my outcome and the reasons 
for it havent changed from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman