DRN-4039085
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc allowed particular transactions to debit his 
account when sufficient funds were not available. 
What happened
Mr B made a transaction to an online retailer (A) on 4 January 2023 and the funds he had 
available to spend reduced. He says on 10 January he thought hed received a credit from 
another source because there were further funds available in his account to spend. Because 
of this, Mr B made additional transactions but when A actually debited his account on 10 
January, this left him in excess of his agreed overdraft limit. Mr B says this is irresponsible 
lending and the situation has left him vulnerable because he couldnt afford his bills and pay 
for food for three weeks. He wants NatWest to clear his whole overdraft.
NatWest explained Mr B had given permission to make the additional transactions whilst he 
didnt have sufficient funds and as no bank error had occurred, they didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained not all retailers take payment 
immediately after a purchase. Although she acknowledged this caused confusion, she said it 
wouldve been for Mr B to check the payment to A had been debited before making 
additional purchases.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the unarranged overdraft was unaffordable and he was placed in 
a vulnerable position. Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B authorised a payment to A on 4 January. And it seems both Mr B and NatWest are in 
agreement that this transaction initially reduced the funds Mr B had available to spend in his 
account. However, NatWest have said that because A didnt process the payment until 10 
January, the funds would have shown as available again in the meantime.
Having looked at the current account statements, once the transaction to A debited the 
account on 10 January it left Mr B with a debit balance of £1,059 so he was still within his 
overdraft limit of £1,250. However, there were other transactions which debited on 11 
January which seem to have been authorised on 9 and 10 January and this took his account 
over the agreed overdraft limit. 
I appreciate the account balance may have been confusing for Mr B given that the funds to A 
were initially earmarked and that he went on to make further transactions because he 
thought he had more money in his account than he did. But I wouldnt expect NatWest to 
earmark the funds to A indefinitely, so I dont think NatWest did anything wrong by not 
blocking the other transactions.
As the account holder it was Mr Bs responsibility to check his account to see whether he 
had sufficient funds to make the subsequent transactions on 9 and 10 January and whether 
A had actually debited the amount from his account. Although it is unfortunate that Mr B is in 
the position that he is, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in allowing the transactions 
to take place. 
In addition to this, when transactions are presented for payment without sufficient funds, 
NatWest can treat it as a request for an unarranged overdraft and this is explained within the 
account terms and conditions. So deciding on whether or not to allow transactions to take 
place when there arent sufficient funds in the account is up to NatWest and it is within their 
commercial discretion. 
Mr B says NatWest have lent to him irresponsibly by allowing him to go over his agreed 
overdraft limit. But taking everything into account I dont think NatWest have done anything 
wrong in allowing these particular transactions in question to take place.
I realise this mustve been a stressful and upsetting experience for Mr B, particularly as he 
has said it left him in a vulnerable position. NatWest has apologised for the service it 
provided to him. I think this is fair and reasonable as Im not persuaded that the service was 
so poor, or the impact so great that compensation is appropriate. 
Mr B has raised concerns about his overall financial situation and that hes been in his 
overdraft for a long period of time. I would urge him to contact NatWest to discuss his 
financial situation and the support they may be able to provide. He may also find it useful to 
seek advice from one of the free independent money charities.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman