DRN-3031478
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 2001. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator concluded Mrs Ws mis-sale complaint wasnt one we should help with. They 
said wed already considered Mrs Ws complaint. And in the absence of any new material 
evidence, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to look at it again.
But they thought Capital Ones offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the 
non-disclosure of high commission and profit share Mrs W paid, was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I wont be looking at this complaint
Ive looked at all the information Mrs W and her representative gave us to decide whether 
we should continue to consider her complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the 
conclusion that this service should not continue to deal with this matter, and it should be 
dismissed. I will explain why.
I dont have to deal with all complaints which are sent to our Service; and I must act within 
my powers which are set out by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 along with 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. These can be 
found on the FCAs website.
DISP rule 3.3.4 says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The DISP rule goes on to say:
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which 
the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become 
available to the complainant) 
Mrs W first complained to us about this policy in September 2012 when she had a 
different representative. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt 
think the policy was mis-sold. The file was then closed in July 2013. 
It seems that Mrs W now wishes to make the same complaint about mis-sold PPI 
again. So I have decided to apply DISP rule 3.3.4 and I am going to dismiss this 
complaint without considering its merits because Im satisfied it will seriously impair the 
effective operation of this Service as the subject matter of the complaint has previously 
been considered by us.
The complaint points raised by Mrs Ws current representative are about things we 
thought about when we first looked at this complaint, such as failings at the point of 
sale and not giving Mrs W enough information about the cover. Having looked carefully 
at this complaint, although I am sorry to disappoint Mrs W, Im not persuaded that she 
or her representative have brought any material new evidence which is likely to affect 
the outcome of this complaint and justify re-opening the complaint. 
Taking everything into account, it follows that Im satisfied this complaint should be 
dismissed for the reason set out in DISP rule 3.3.4 - that it would seriously impair the 
effective operation of this service because it would be inappropriate and inoperable for it 
to have to reconsider complaints which have already been considered.
So Ive decided its not appropriate for us to take the mis-sale complaint further.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mrs W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account:
 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipCapital One and Mrs W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs W because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs W should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Capital One failed to tell Mrs W about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs W wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs W paid for her PPI policy -  I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line with 
the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Capital One has already paid Mrs W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
My decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided that we should not consider Mrs Ws mis-
sale complaint further.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Capital 
One (Europe) plc should pay Mrs W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider 
that it should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman