DRN-3633822
The complaint
Mr A complains he lost Fixed Protection 2016 against the amount of the lifetime allowance 
applicable to his pensions by making a small payment into his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) in 2018. Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) refused to reverse the 
error so that he could keep his fixed protection status.
What happened
Mr A said that in February 2018 a share purchase was made in his SIPP but there was not
enough cash in the account so he added £100. He didnt realise that this would invalidate his
fixed protection status and II didnt alert him so that he could reverse the process. Had he
known, there was no way he would have lost fixed protection for the sake of a payment of
£100. He felt IIs systems should be set up so that it wasnt possible to commit to a share
purchase that exceeded the amount of cash in the account. It didnt warn him that making a
payment would invalidate his fixed protection status. The issue came to light in June 2020
when he made a mistake and paid £7,000 into his SIPP rather than an ISA, but that situation
was corrected.
II said it notified Mr A that the contribution of £7,000 to his SIPP in 2020 affected his fixed
protection. On investigation it felt the payment was a genuine error and moved it to his ISA.
However it also discovered a payment of £100 made in 2018 and said it could not reverse
that payment into the SIPP. While it understood Mr As frustration it had not been in error
and didnt uphold the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short, I said the following.
I did not set out any detail regarding the nature and circumstances in which fixed
protection can be lost, as this was not in dispute between the parties and was set out in 
detail by the investigator.
What was in dispute was the impact of the payment of £100 paid into the SIPP in 2018.
Before I could make any award against II, I needed to confirm it made a mistake. For the 
reasons I set out I didnt think it had.
Mr A maintained that II should have informed him of the consequences of his action i.e. that
the payment in of £100 would result in the loss of his fixed protection and or that its systems
should have prevented him from making the payment at all. He argued they should have
control systems to do this.
I reviewed the relevant terms and conditions applicable to his SIPP in order to consider 
whether II was obliged to (1) prevent the payment or (2) warn him of the consequence or (3)
notify him after the payment was made.
Prevention
Mr A said IIs systems should be set up so that it wasnt possible to commit to a share
purchase that exceeded the amount of cash in the account. 
The SIPP Investment terms of service say the following:-
4.10
By placing an order for the purchase of investments, you agree that you will have sufficient
Cleared Funds in your Account on the date when you are required to make the payment to settle
the trade. We may accept the order even if there are not sufficient Cleared Funds at the point of
placing the trade. Cleared Funds must be available in order to effect and settle any trade. If your
Cleared Funds are not held in the relevant trades Settlement Currency we may still effect the trade
provided there are sufficient Cleared Funds in your Account (including other currencies]. However,
we will not automatically convert your currency into Settlement Currency - you must instruct us to
do this.
I thought it was clear from section 4.10 above that Mr A was responsible for ensuring 
he had cleared funds to settle trades, so I didnt agree that IIs system should not 
have allowed him to commit to a purchase without cash funds to support it. I could 
not direct II to change it terms and conditions which are set out in the provisions 
covering the account and would have been accepted by Mr A when he opened the 
account. 
Warning
Mr A argued that II was responsible for giving guidance and to have system controls
that issued warnings and or prevented contributions that would result in the loss of
fixed protection. Section 5 below is clear that II isnt responsible for providing any
advice. So I dont think II had to give Mr A any advice about fixed protection.
5  Financial Advice
We are not responsible for giving, and shall not be deemed to have given, any legal, financial,
investment, tax or any other advice in connection with your SIPP or any underlying investments or
decisions associated with it.
Where you are in doubt as to the suitability of a SIPP for your needs and circumstances we
recommend that you seek independent financial advice.
However I accepted there is a difference between giving advice and issuing general
warnings or having warning systems in place. I considered the SIPP Operator
terms and conditions
3  Our services
We, in conjunction with the Scheme Practitioner, BW SIPP LLP, will: establish your membership of the
Scheme; maintain the Scheme in line with legislation and regulation; prepare documentation to allow
the making of claims for tax relief; open and maintain client accounts with selected banks
maintain appropriate records; for example, a record of contributions paid; liaise with you in respect
of changes to the Scheme, including changes in limits on contributions and benefits; act in line with 
your instructions, receive investment income, pay outgoings; settle the benefits due under the
Scheme by the payment of cash and income (and, in certain circumstances and where allowed by our
SIPP Investment Terms of Service, by an in specie payment], with the deduction of income tax as
appropriate, and/or by the purchase of an annuity with the provider of your choice.
3.2 Other services
We may perform other services if we are asked by you, (and we agree to and are allowed
to do so], or if we are required to do so by legislation and regulation. Any such services
provided may be subject to additional time cost fees if the services are requested by you, orspecial fees if they are required by legislation and regulation.
I considered the provisions of section 3 above. I was not persuaded that these
made reference to offering any warning systems nor preventing contributions.
Instead the provisions seem focused on providing supporting records and
information, so I was not persuaded that II had any obligation to warn Mr A about the
impact of his contribution nor prevent him making it.
Notification
I noted that in 2020, II said it notified Mr A of the impact of the £7,000 contribution 
and this resulted in the mistake being identified and corrected. For the reasons given
above, I was not persuaded II was obliged to offer such a notification but, it seems
that at least by 2020, it did.
But even if I was  wrong and II was obliged to offer such a notification and had 
issued one in 2018, I was not persuaded it would have made a difference. I said that 
because the payment made in 2018, was intended to be made. That is what Mr A 
said, (though he says he was mistaken about the consequence). Had II notified Mr A 
after the payment was made, as it did in 2020, it would have been too late as Mr A 
had already made the mistaken payment. There were no grounds to reverse the
payment as an error, as Mr A intended to make it.
By contrast the 2020 payment was made in error as to its destination (due Mr A said
to a problem with the drop-down boxes on IIs website), as it was meant for his ISA
and not his SIPP. So I could see it was reasonable to reverse the payment to put it in
its correct destination.
Mr A accepted the error in 2018, was in his understanding of the consequence of the
payment, not that he didnt intend to make the payment at the time. I fully understand
that Mr A would not have made the payment if he had understood the consequence.
But II had no duty to advise or warn him and it had no discretion to determine that an
intended payment should be treated as an error because Mr A subsequently
understood the impact. That was a matter from HMRC and Mr A is at liberty to ask
HMRC how it should be treated.
I did understand and agree that Mr A felt he was paying a potentially heavy price for
his mistake, in the shape of the loss of the higher fixed protection against the lifetime
allowance. But based on the provisions of the SIPP I didnt think there was anything 
to suggest II was responsible for his error and I didnt think it was responsible for
preventing him making the payment, warning him or notifying him about the impact
of the payment.
For those reasons I didnt propose to uphold the complaint.
II said it agreed with the findings. Mr A did not have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has made any further submissions, I have not changed my view.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman