DRN-2243478
The complaint
Mr A says Valour Finance Limited Ltd  trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) - irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Savvy provided to Mr A in April 2019. It was for £2,000 and 
was repayable over 18 monthly instalments of £222.21. At the time of writing this decision, 
the loan is outstanding.  
The complaint has been reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they upheld Mr As 
complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given because had Savvy done 
proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr A wasnt earning as much as he had 
declared he was and that he had other open accounts with high-cost lenders in addition to 
what he had told Savvy. This all suggested he was having difficulties managing his money.  
Savvy disagreed and said the adjudicator was including a secure debt in their calculations of 
Mr As outgoings. It also said that Mr A had confirmed he didnt have any outstanding debts 
when he was questioned by their underwriter.  
Mr A responded to the adjudicators opinion and explained that his financial situation had 
caused him to suffer with stress and anxiety. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr As complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Savvy says it carried out checks before it lent the loan to Mr A. And has provided a copy of 
the underwriting telephone call between itself and Mr A. During this call, Savvy asked for 
information from Mr A about the purpose of the loan, whether he was employed, how much 
he earned, what his outgoings were and the number of dependants he had. But given the 
amount Mr A was borrowing and the length of time he was committing to making 
repayments, I think Savvy should have been looking to build a clearer picture than it did 
about Mr As finances before lending him this loan. Such as verifying the information Mr A 
provided during the unwriting call  by asking to see a copy of his bank statements and/or 
his payslips or bills. 
Had Savvy carried out proportionate checks, it would have seen that Mr A had loans with 
other short-term lenders as well as a regular payment to a high-cost lender. These payments 
would have been increasing his monthly outgoings by a significant amount. And this 
behaviour was mostly likely an indication Mr A was in a cycle of debt which was becoming 
increasingly more difficult to sustain. I think this is shown by the fact the balance of the loan 
is outstanding. 
In addition, it looks like Mr A wasnt earning as much as Savvy had recorded he was. Savvy 
has recorded Mr As income as £5,500 but this was his gross pay. His bank statements 
show his income from his employment in January and February 2019 to be £3,765  so his 
income was at least £1,735 less a month. This would have significantly reduced his 
disposable income.
Ive noted Savvys comments about the adjudicator including a secured debt for car finance 
in their calculations about Mr As outgoings and how Savvy had already included this amount 
when it considered Mr As eligibility. Having looked at all the information, I think regardless of whether this debt was included or not, Mr A was still using a significant portion of his income 
on repaying debt. And this was a sign that Mr A wasnt effectively managing his finances. 
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Mr As complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr A has said about how his financial difficulties were 
impacting him and whether this should mean that Savvy pays additional compensation to 
him as well as the standard redress. Whilst I can appreciate this must have been a very 
difficult time for Mr A and I think Savvys actions certainly didnt help, I dont have enough 
evidence to say it was the sole reason for Mr As stress. I can see that Mr A was suffering 
financial stress prior to taking the loan with Savvy. 
So, Savvy only needs to pay the standard redress as Ive laid out below. 
Putting things right
If Savvy has sold the outstanding debt, Savvy should buy it back if Savvy is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Savvy cant buy the debt back, then Savvy should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Savvy should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
it. If this results in Mr A having made overpayments then Savvy should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the loan. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Savvy 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. Savvy shouldnt pursue the 
outstanding balance made up of principal Savvy has already written-off.
C) Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to 
the loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr As complaint. Valour Finance Limited Ltd should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman