DRN-2248780
The complaint
Mr M complains about excessive charges applied to his mortgage by Pepper (UK) Limited 
trading as Engage Credit when he fell into financial difficulties, leading to his property being 
repossessed. He also says Pepper didnt treat him fairly by contacting him repeatedly to 
demand payment.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage which was administered by Pepper. Unfortunately he struggled to 
keep up with the repayments. Pepper took him to court on more than one occasion, and the 
property was repossessed in August 2013. There was a shortfall on sale, which has now 
been passed to a debt collection company to deal with.
Mr M complained to Pepper in 2019. He said that excessive fees and charges had been 
added to the loan balance, and he felt that he had been hounded to make payments over 
and above those which a court said he should make. He didnt think he had been treated 
fairly by Pepper.
Our investigator didnt think we could look at all of Mr Ms complaint. She said that under our 
time limit rules, we could only consider things that had happened in the six years leading up 
to Mr Ms complaint to Pepper  that is, from April 2013 to April 2019. Another ombudsman 
agreed about that. Our investigator didnt think Mr M had been treated unfairly over that 
period, so he asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what my fellow ombudsman said about the parts of this complaint we can 
consider, and for the reasons she gave I agree with her. Our rules say we can only consider 
complaints that are made within six years of the event complained of, or  if that gives more 
time  three years from when the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known of 
cause for complaint. I agree that Mr M ought to have been aware of any fees and charges at 
the time because they were detailed on his statements. And I agree he would have been 
aware that he was unhappy with how Pepper were treating him. 
I note Mr M says he wasnt aware he could complain, and that if he knew he would have 
done so. But Im afraid I agree that this isnt an exceptional circumstance that prevented him 
complaining sooner; if he was unhappy, all he needed to do was to get in touch with Pepper 
and say so. So in this decision I will only be considering things that happened, and fees that 
were charged, from April 2013 onwards.
Pepper had taken Mr M to court about the mortgage several times, most recently in February 
2013. At that hearing the court had suspended a warrant for possession on condition that 
Mr M pay the contractual monthly payments, plus an extra £400 per month towards the 
arrears. 
In April 2013, Mr Ms direct debit bounced. The same thing happened in May, though the 
contractual monthly payment  but not the extra £400  was later collected. Again in June 
Mr M paid the monthly payment but not the £400. And his direct debit bounced again in July 
and August. As Mr M had therefore not kept to the terms of the suspension of the warrant, 
Pepper took possession of the property.
During this time, fees were added to the mortgage balance. There were fees to cover the 
administrative costs of failed direct debits. There were also arrears fees each month to cover 
the additional costs of Pepper trying to contact Mr M to find out why payments hadnt been 
made.
I think these fees were reasonable. I can see from Peppers notes at the time that they 
reflect work Pepper actually carried out. According to the notes, Pepper tried several times 
each month to contact Mr M  leaving voicemail message and so on  but without success. I 
dont think this contact was unreasonable or excessive. When a borrower isnt making the 
payments agreed either under the mortgage agreement or a court order, Id expect a lender 
to contact them to find out what has happened and try to see whether payment can be 
made. I think thats what Pepper did in this case.
Once the property was repossessed, there were further fees added. These include 
insurance and legal fees, as well as Peppers costs for managing the property in possession 
while it was being sold. Again, I dont think this was unreasonable.
I appreciate things were difficult for Mr M at this time, and no doubt he found Peppers 
attempts to contact him unwelcome. But I dont think it was unfair, and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman