DRN-3326233
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC have decided not to refund him after he says 
he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows: 
Mr S was looking for works to be carried out at his home. He put an advert on an online 
marketplace which connects homeowners with tradespeople. Mr S says after placing the 
advert, a representative from a company that Ill refer to as P came to visit his home. Hes 
told us P had a five-star rating and amazing reviews. 
Mr S said the representative was pushing for him to go ahead with the project  a bathroom 
and a new boiler. Mr S says he was told to borrow the money from friends so that the work 
could start immediately. He said this was because he was told by P that it was booked up for 
three to four months and would be busy until October.                             
Mr S says he borrowed money from friends and made three payments to P in total: £1,500 
on 13 July 2020, £1,450 on 13 July 2020 and £2,700 on 14 July 2020. 
Mr S has added that P insisted he pay 50% of the works costs. He says once he did, P cut 
his power supply and damaged his carpet. Mr S adds P then called him and told him it 
couldnt continue without the new boiler. Mr S says the representative for P told him the 
boiler would be cheaper if bought by him. Mr S thought this would be helpful and so 
transferred the money for the boiler. However, Mr S says he never received the boiler. The 
payment of £2,700 on 14 July 2020 was the money Mr S sent for the boiler. 
Mr S has told us there was communication between P and himself, where more money was 
requested. Mr S says he stopped making payments and asked for an invoice. At this point 
Mr S says all communication stopped. 
Mr S complained to the online marketplace and in August 2020, it informed him that it had 
removed P from the website. Mr S also raises that the reviews were provided during the 
Covid-19 lockdown and so he believes these to be fake. He appears to question whether P 
had been working when the country was locked down during this time. 
Mr S then contacted Barclays on 8 August 2020 to report it as a scam. 
Barclays looked into things and said unfortunately that, as Mr S had transferred the money 
willingly, it was unable to assist him further in reclaiming the funds. Barclays said that based 
on the information given this was a buyer/seller dispute and so would be considered a purely 
civil matter. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looking into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with Barclays 
that the case should be treated as a purely civil matter and so the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) didnt apply to this situation. 
She also considered that Barclays had investigated the account to which the payments were 
made, as it was also held with Barclays. But it didnt find anything concerning about how the 
account had been operated. She noted there had been no other reports of scams made in 
respect of the receiving account and, while she noted the company dissolved in 
September 2021, over a year after the payments were made, she didnt think it was usual for 
a business to continue to operate for this length of time if its intent was to defraud. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, he believes this was a scam. He 
said this because:
- The account was closed almost a year later which he believed shows the 
person/company is a scammer. 
- He wasnt provided with an invoice which he feels was so no evidence exists. 
- The reviews and ratings were fraudulent as they were received during Covid-19 
lockdown when everything was closed. Mr S has provided articles which he feels 
supports that his case is a scam. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this 
will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should reimburse him. Ill explain 
why.
At the outset Id like to recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and why he feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him. Id like to assure both 
Mr S and Barclays that Ive carefully considered all the information provided to us but that in 
setting out my final decision, I have focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr S, and its understandable given the significant 
sum why he feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have 
lost significant sums of money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
Are these payments covered by the CRM Code?
At the time Mr S made the payments, Barclays was signed up to the CRM Code which sets 
out how it should respond where its customer is a victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. The code doesnt cover all scenarios and it specifically excludes private civil 
disputes. It says: 
This code does not apply to  private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has 
paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with 
the supplier.
The key thing I need to consider when making a finding on this point is what the evidence 
tells us about the intentions of P  i.e. whether the evidence is strong enough to say that P 
took payments with no intention of performing its side of the agreement.
Its clear the agreement Mr S entered into with P did not go as agreed and the work has not 
been carried out or completed as expected. And while I can understand Mr Ss strength of 
feeling about what has happened, I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that 
P set out with an intent to defraud Mr S.
I say this because there appears to be a number of factors, in the circumstances of this 
case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or of a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud; 
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank, the evidence Ive seen regarding the receiving account, 
indicates that the companys account was legitimate  in that the account was a 
business account and the account spending appeared to be in line with that of 
business activity. The bank hasnt said it had any concerns about how the account 
was being operated prior to Mr S making his payments. 
I havent seen or been provided with the specific reviews for P from the online 
marketplace which Mr S has referred to  but in his submissions to us he has said 
the reviews were amazing and it had a five-star rating. I do acknowledge Mr S 
comments about when the reviews were received  during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
and his viewpoint that these reviews are fake. But Im afraid I havent been given any 
persuasive evidence to support this position or that allows me to safely say that this 
was the case. I say this because, Im mindful that reviews can be provided at any 
point  so whilst a review might be posted at a given time and date, it could be in 
relation to work carried out prior to this. Further, whilst there were restrictions in place 
during the Covid-19 pandemic, certain workforces/ businesses were still able to 
continue working. And in any event, I dont find that this point in and of itself is 
enough to conclude P was a scammer or that it shows it had an intent to defraud 
from the outset. 
Im mindful Mr S has said that P closed around a year after the payments were 
made, which he feels shows the person/company is a scammer. Im not persuaded 
that this is consistent with the usual hallmarks of a scam. Had the account been 
operating with the intent to defraud, Im not persuaded that it then would be usual 
behaviour for a scammer to keep the account open for this length of time afterwards. 
From my experience of cases involving scams, usually the person/company looks to 
move the money on quickly and close the account. When considering this alongside 
the fact Barclays say no other concerns have been raised, Im unable to safely 
conclude that there was an intent to defraud from the outset. Further, a business can 
close for a number of reasons that are unconnected to it being a scam. Mr S has provided screenshots of communication he had with P at the time/after 
making the payments. From this information, I can see P appears to have attended 
Mr Ss property in order to start work, although Mr S has commented that the work 
undertaken caused damage to his property. So, there was communication between 
Mr S and P, although this later ceased. The information given to us, indicates that it 
was around 24 July 2020 that communication stopped between the parties. I say this 
because, the last correspondence Ive seen is an email Mr S received from P on this 
date. This email reply said that due to ongoing Covid-19 issues P was having 
difficulties and would be in touch in due course. Id like to assure Mr S that I can 
appreciate his frustrations that he didnt receive paperwork he requested, such as an 
invoice, or that it appears from the screenshots Ive seen, that he didnt receive a 
reply to all of his messages. But I have to keep in mind that there are many reasons 
why two parties might stop communicating with each other, such as a break down in 
the relationship and so this aspect doesnt automatically lead me to make the finding 
that this is an indication or evidence of a scam in this particular case. 
After taking everything into careful consideration, Im persuaded this appears to be a case of 
a company, potentially failing to honour an agreement, by not providing the work that their 
customer expected. 
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Barclays 
to refund the money Mr S has lost, under the Code. 
I have also considered the articles Mr S has provided to our service in support of why he 
feels this should be considered as a scam. I think it helpful to reiterate that our service 
considers each case on its own merits. And while there might appear to be some similarities 
within the articles given to us, Ive reached my decision having thought carefully about the 
individual circumstances of this particular case. And so, this point doesnt change my 
conclusions. 
I do recognise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S and Id like to assure him 
Ive taken everything hes told us into account  including what he has shared about his 
health. In turn I also dont underestimate the impact this matter had had on him, but overall, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly and reasonably ask Barclays to refund him 
the money he has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman