DRN-2763086
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) sent a letter to his parents address regarding 
his outstanding credit card debt, and they then passed his account to a debt collection 
agency without notifying him, despite him making payments.  
 
What happened
Mr J had a credit card balance of £1170.98 with Lloyds which he was struggling to pay. 
On 12 June 2020 a Formal Demand Termination letter for the debt was sent to Mr Js 
parents address which he had moved out of six years previously.
Mr J complained to Lloyds about this and received a final response on 30 June 2020 offering 
him £200 for the error made in sending the post to his parents address. Lloyds also 
apologised and explained that they had reported the error to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). In the response they said that they would be happy to accept whatever 
repayment he could afford to pay, for as long as he needed. 
Mr J then made contact with Lloyds and set up a payment for £100 per month to clear the 
debt. The first payment was due to go out on 1 August 2020 but as this was a Saturday, the 
payment was made on 3 August 2020. 
On 5 August 2020 Lloyds referred Mr Js debt to an agent for collection. 
Mr J received a letter from the agent advising of the outstanding balance and to contact 
them to arrange payment. 
Mr J contacted the agent on 12 August 2020 to complain that the debt should not have been 
passed to them as he had made a payment arrangement with Lloyds. The agent agreed to 
place a 30 day hold on the account while the complaint was being investigated. 
On 13 August 2020 Lloyds declined Mr Js complaint and said that no error had been made 
in passing the account to the agent. They said that passing the debt over was appropriate in 
the circumstances and asked Mr J to make contact with the agency to make a payment 
arrangement with them.   
Mr J has continued to pay the agreed £100 per month and the debt is now cleared. 
 
Mr J felt that the £200 he was offered in respect of his complaints wasnt enough, and he 
thought he should be entitled to £350 for the trouble and upset caused by Lloyds sending the 
letter to his parents address and for transferring the debt collection to an agency. 
Our investigator approached the bank to see if it would increase its offer to £350. The bank 
declined, and on review, our investigator felt that the £200 offered by Lloyds was fair for the 
trouble and upset caused by the letter being sent to Mr Js parents address in error. She 
didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in passing the debt to the debt collection 
agency, and so she didnt make any award for that. I note Mr J has already received the 
payment of £200. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence provided by Lloyds and Mr J, and taken account of what he 
has told us about the impact on him. However, having looked at this, I think that the outcome 
offered by Lloyds is fair, and I will explain my reasons below. 
The letter sent to Mr Js parents address
Lloyds have accepted that the letter was sent to Mr Js parents address in error as this old 
address was still active on the system for him despite all other correspondence going to the 
correct address. As this error has been accepted, the question for me to decide is what level 
of payment is appropriate for the trouble and upset it caused. 
I note that Mr J says that the impact on him was severe because he was already struggling 
financially and mentally, he was not coping with his financial correspondence, and had not in 
fact been opening the letters sent to his own address. He says that the letter sent to his 
parents address was a shock, and when he opened it in front of them, he had to explain to 
them the extent of his financial problems which then caused a strain on their relationship. 
 
Whilst I appreciate it must have been difficult for Mr J admitting his financial difficulties to his 
parents, I think it was still his choice to do so and I dont think I can take into account any 
impact that telling them might have had on their relationship. 
I also note that Lloyds only sent one letter erroneously. It correctly named Mr J, so no one 
else should have opened (nor indeed did open) it, and he did actually receive it so there was 
limited detriment caused. I therefore think that the £200 offered by Lloyds in these 
circumstances is fair and reasonable. 
Passing the debt to the agent
Lloyds have sent us copies of the letters they sent to Mr J to advise his that the credit card 
account was in arrears and that it would be passed to an agent for collection. 
A default notice was sent on 15 February 2020 and further letters were sent on 13 March 
2020 and 16 April 2020. The April letter clearly says that as he has not responded to the 
default notice, the card agreement is terminated, and the card is withdrawn. It also says that 
failure to contact Lloyds to agree a way forward may result in them instructing a debt 
collection agency. 
Mr J has advised us that he didnt open these letters and so was not aware of the default 
notice of the possibility of the debt being passed to the debt collection agency.  However, Im 
satisfied that these letters were sent, and also that they were received by Mr J, even if he 
chose not to open them. In view of that I cant fairly say that Lloyds didnt make him aware of 
the situation.  It is Lloyds process that they dont normally keep old debts in house. They are passed to a 
third-party agent to administer, and this can happen even if a repayment plan has been 
agreed between Lloyds and the customer. This is in their terms and conditions where it 
states, We may transfer our rights and obligations under this agreement (including our 
obligation to lend) to someone else. If we do so, your rights under this agreement will not be 
affected.
While I appreciate that Mr J is unhappy that the agent had been instructed, he was informed, 
and it was in line with Lloyds process for dealing with old debts. Theres no reason why 
Lloyds should not be entitled to engage an agent to act on its behalf in dealing with debt, and 
such action is consistent with general industry practice.
I think Lloyds had given Mr J plenty of opportunity to contact them between February and 
August and had sent several clear letters explaining what would happen. I understand that 
Mr J had started to make payments just prior to the debt being passed over, but there was 
no reason why Mr could not continue to make the agreed payment to the agent instead of 
directly to Lloyds. In these circumstances, I find that Lloyds have acted fairly and in 
accordance with their processes. I will therefore not be making any award in respect of this 
issue. 
I also note that Mr J has asked that any credit markers be removed. I can see that at the 
time Mr J was issued with a default notice he was not making payments in respect of this 
loan, and whilst he subsequently started making payments, the default notice was applied 
appropriately at the time, and there is no reason to remove it. 
I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr J but I hope that my reasons give him a clear 
picture of why I feel the award offered is appropriate, and why Im not increasing it as he has 
requested.  
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC have already paid £200 to Mr J and so my decision is that they are not 
required to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman