DRN-4446024
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined a claim he 
made under his life and critical illness policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Royal London hadnt acted  
unfairly when it declined Mr Ms claim. She was satisfied his circumstances didnt meet the 
policy definition for heart attack and therefore a critical illness claim wasnt payable. 
Mr M disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr 
M and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the key points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision. 
Mr M took out his policy in 2010, some 11 years before the event leading to Mr Ms claim. 
The policy provided cover for a heart attack  of specified severity. Royal London has relied 
on the following policy definition:
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
New characteristic electrocardiographic changes;
The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins recorded at the 
following levels or higher:
-Troponin T>1.0 ng/ml
-AccuTnl > 0.5 ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other Troponin I 
methods.
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
other acute coronary syndromes, including but not limited to angina.
I can see that all elements of the definition have to be met in order to satisfy the specified 
level of severity. And having reviewed the medical evidence, that wasnt the case for Mr M. 
Tests showed that Mr M did have elevated Troponin levels after admission to hospital. But 
the readings didnt reach the levels required under his policy. In a letter to Mr M, following a 
clinic appointment in February 2022, his consultant cardiologist refers to a subsequent 
cardiac MRI which showed a very focal area of abnormality in the right coronary artery 
which is in keeping with a subendocardial infarct, i.e. a very small heart attack. 
Mr M accepts the policy definitions but argues it is unfair to rely on them as theyre out of 
date and not in line with current minimum standards and model definitions for critical illness 
policies, as set out by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). In particular, he argues his 
Troponin levels were on an upward trajectory, but no further readings were taken after six 
hours as this would not have benefitted diagnosis. Mr M has also argued that other insurers 
have paid out even though their policies contained the same definition as Royal Londons.
I can appreciate Mr Ms arguments and have some sympathy with his position. But I still 
dont think it would be fair to hold Royal London to definitions that werent in place when Mr 
M took out his policy and werent part of his terms and conditions. The fact remains there 
isnt medical evidence to show Troponin levels sufficient to meet Royal Londons definition, 
which was consistent with the ABI statement of best practice in place at the time. Royal 
London offered cover on those terms and priced that cover accordingly. I acknowledge Mr 
Ms evidence that other insurers have paid out, but that doesnt change my view in respect of 
Royal London. Each insurer is entitled to make its own claims decisions.
Finally, Mr M has argued that he wasnt told about changes to ABI guidelines. But theres no 
requirement for an insurer to notify customers of any changes and Mr M was free to review 
his policy at any stage and cancel if he wanted to.
So I dont think Royal London acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Mr Ms claim 
under his critical illness benefit. Once again, Im sorry to send unwelcome news to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman