DRN-3837744
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC surrounding declined 
transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr H called Lloyds because he was concerned that his wife, who is an additional card holder 
on his account, couldnt make online purchases because she wasnt receiving verification 
codes from Lloyds that should have been sent to her mobile phone. Mr H wasnt satisfied 
that the issue wasnt resolved to his satisfaction while on this call, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Hs complaint, but then provided a response to Mr H which addressed 
the issue of attempted transactions being delayed or declined because of automated fraud 
checks, which wasnt the issue Mr H was complaining about. Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Lloyds hadnt held a 
telephone number for Mr Hs wife before hed contacted them to complain about the issue, 
and that following that time there hadnt been any declined transactions. As such, they didnt 
feel Lloyds had acted unfairly as Mr H maintained and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr H feels the nature of his complaint hasnt been correctly understood and is 
concerned that his wife was unable to make online purchases with the card she held for his 
account as she wasnt receiving verification codes that should have been sent to her by. Mr 
H has also asked, if his wife wasnt receiving these codes, where they were being sent. 
Lloyds have confirmed that they didnt hold a telephone number for Mr Hs wife before Mr H 
contacted them about this issue, and that therefore no codes were being sent out by them 
when Mrs Hs wife was attempting to make purchases online before that time  because 
there was no telephone number held by them for those codes to be sent to. 
This seems reasonable to me, and it must be recognised that its an account holders 
responsibility to ensure that all relevant contact details are updated correctly with their bank. 
As such, I dont feel that Lloyds acted unfairly in how they managed the situation before Mr 
H provided his wifes contact number to them, which I note from Lloyds internal notes that Mr 
H did when speaking with them about this matter at the time he raised his complaint.
Lloyds have also been able to confirm to my satisfaction that there havent been any 
declined transactions on Mr Hs wifes debit card since her telephone details were provided 
to Lloyds - the one exception to this being a contactless payment Mr Hs wife attempted to 
make which was declined because shed exceeded the contactless limit for that day already 
and which Mr Hs wife then successfully made via chip and pin approximately a minute later.
Mr H has explained that there was a transaction his wife attempted to make online to a 
specific vendor which didnt complete. Lloyds have confirmed they have no record of this 
transaction ever being applied for on their systems. As such, I feel that its highly likely that 
the issue Mr Hs wife encountered was with vendors own systems or connectivity, because 
if the vendor had contacted Lloyds to attempt the transaction, and it had then been declined 
by Lloyds for any reason  including Mr Hs wife not successfully verifying the transaction  
then this would have been logged on Lloyds systems, which as explained wasnt the case.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds have done anything wrong here regarding 
how theyve administered Mr Hs wifes debit card. This is because Lloyds didnt send out 
any verification codes during the time that they didnt hold a telephone number for Mr Hs 
wife to send such codes to  which is the period of time about which Mr H initially 
complained. And Im satisfied that there werent any transactions on Mr Hs wifes debit card 
that were declined by Lloyds, other than the one exception explained above, following Mr H 
providing his wifes contact telephone number to Lloyds  meaning that it cant have been 
the case that any verification codes were unsuccessfully sent.
I do acknowledge that it would have been preferable for Lloyds to have addressed Mr Hs 
complaint correctly in the first instance, but this specific point sits outside the remit of what I 
can consider here. This is because the remit of this service is restricted to regulated financial 
matters and because how a business handles a complaint  even a complaint about a 
regulated financial matter  isnt itself a regulated financial matter. In short, this service cant 
consider a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint. And, in regard to how 
Lloyds have administered the account  the regulated financial matter which I can consider 
here  Im satisfied that Lloyds havent acted unfairly, as explained above.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr B was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope that Mr B will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman