DRN-4130239
The complaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) reduced his overdraft limit without his 
knowledge resulting in his mortgage direct debit being returned unpaid. 
What happened
Mr F says he is an international student currently residing overseas, the details of which he 
says he informed Barclays of by telephone before leaving the UK. Mr F says while overseas 
he got a notification from his mortgage provider that he had missed a monthly mortgage 
payment and on investigation it transpired this was because Barclays had reduced his 
overdraft limit, causing the mortgage payment to be returned unpaid. 
Mr F says Barclays had written to his UK address informing him of this, knowing he wasnt at 
that address. Mr F says he regularly checks his banking app but there was nothing to clearly 
show his overdraft limit had changed, if he had been aware of this he could have transferred 
funds he held elsewhere to cover the payment. Mr F says Barclays actions have left a mark 
on his credit file which will affect him financially going forward and create difficulties for him 
when seeking employment. 
Mr F wants Barclays to advise the credit agencies to remove the adverse entry on his credit 
file. 
Barclays says it wrote to Mr F in July 2022 advising him that it was reducing his overdraft 
limit with effect from September 2022. Barclays says as well as writing to Mr Fs UK address 
it held on file, it also communicated this via Mr Fs online banking app. Barclays says Mr F 
would have also been sent a text message to say a notification had been sent to his online 
banking app for him to read. Barclays says it has no records to show Mr F had telephoned 
them regarding his move overseas for an extended period. Barclays says it has made no 
error here. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says he was satisfied Barclays had met its obligations by writing to Mr F 
advising it was reducing his overdraft facility and it had no record of him ever formally 
changing his address details. The investigator says this information was also provided to Mr 
F in his banking app, which he checked regularly, so the information was there to be read 
and the investigator couldnt hold Barclays responsible for the fact he never checked his 
online mailbox. 
With that in mind the investigator didnt feel Barclays had made a mistake here and couldnt 
ask it to contact the credit agencies over this matter. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr F to learn his mortgage payment had 
been returned unpaid when he believed he had funds available within his overdraft facility 
with Barclays. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays correctly 
communicated the change to Mr Fs overdraft limit, which caused his mortgage direct debt 
payment to be returned unpaid. 
Mr Fs complaint centres around the fact Barclays were informed of his move overseas 
before he left, but it still sent communications to his UK address, which is why he never 
received the letter advising him his overdraft limit was being reduced  he makes the point 
he had funds in other bank accounts, so if he had known he would have paid funds into the 
account. Mr F says although Barclays have told him the details of this letter was also sent to 
his online banking app, it wasnt immediately apparent to see where this communication 
could be found in the app. 
I understand the points Mr F makes here but Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this because although Mr F says he rang Barclays before he moved overseas, Barclays 
have checked its call logs and have no record of this call. Additionally, Mr F hasnt been able 
to provide any evidence to show he provided Barclays at that time, with a formal change of 
address details that would have been necessary for Barclays to stop future correspondence 
going to the UK address it held on file. So, without this its not possible for me to know what 
Mr F discussed with Barclays at this time and whether or not he was simply asking if he 
could continue his banking account while overseas, or if a specific instruction to change his 
address was given. 
I have been provided with details from Barclays to show that in addition to the formal letter 
being posted to Mr Fs UK address, it also uploaded this letter to Mr Fs online banking 
mailbox on 24 July 2022. This letter confirmed Mr Fs overdraft limit was being reduced with 
effect from 9 September 2022. In addition to this Barclays explained as part of its process, a 
text message would have been sent to Mr F informing him a communication had been sent 
to his banking app mailbox for him to look at. Mr F says although he regularly logs on to his 
banking app, he doesnt look at his online mailbox and in any event its not immediately clear 
where this could be found within the app. 
While I understand the point Mr F makes about the app, its reasonable to say it would be his 
responsibility to become familiar with the features of the banking app and this would be even 
more relevant while overseas, given in all likelihood Mr F would be more reliant on it for his 
day-to-day banking with Barclays.
Although I do have some sympathy for Mr F here as its clear Mr F may have been in a 
position to fund his Barclays bank account at the time his mortgage payment was presented, 
I cant hold Barclays responsible for the fact Mr F hadnt read the communications hed been 
sent for the reasons I have already explained. So, with that in mind it would be unfair of me 
to say Barclays have made a mistake here and tell it that it must now send a note to the 
credit agencies.
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman