DRN-2496168
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Equifax Limited had his home address incorrect on their system and is also 
unhappy with the customer service he received from them.
What happened
Mr E complains about the following:
Incorrect home address recorded on Equifaxs system
Mr E says his credit file had shown him residing at the correct address on the electoral
register from 1992 to 1996. But after this date, Mr E says his credit file was showing him
residing at an incorrect address. Mr E says he never resided at this address and has always
been at the same address from 1992 to present date. Mr E says this could have impacted
his credit rating and that whilst he may not have incurred any financial loss due to this error,
hes wasted a lot of time trying to rectify it.
Equifax responded to Mr Es concerns. They explained that the address discrepancy was
due to a variation in how Mr Es address information was supplied and how it was stored on
their system. So, they amended the address and sent Mr E a copy of his updated credit file.
Equifax apologised and offered Mr E £100 for the inconvenience caused. Mr E didnt accept
this as he said this didnt adequately compensate him.
Customer service issues
Mr E complains about the length of time it took Equifax to send him his credit report  Mr E
says this took them nearly two months. Mr E has also told us about other service issues from
Equifax such as duplicate letters being sent to him, letters not being sent on the day Equifax
say they sent them, as well as Equifax not responding to some of his letters.
Equifax sent Mr E a further letter in March 2020. In this, they explained that following a
review of Mr Es complaint, it came to light that the customer service Mr E received wasnt in
line with the standards they would expect. So, Equifax apologised for this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es concerns. In summary, she said Mr E hadnt suffered any
financial loss and that there wasnt any evidence to show this discrepancy did impact his
credit file. As Equifax had changed Mr Es address to the correct one, she thought their offer
of £100 fairly compensated him for the inconvenience caused. Mr E disagreed. He said
whilst this may not have impacted his credit file and may not have caused him any financial
loss, he still suffered significant inconvenience in trying to resolve this issue. Mr E reiterated
the poor customer service he received from Equifax. So, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
Since the complaint has come to us, Equifax have offered Mr E a further £100 compensation
in recognition of the poor service he received. Mr E didnt accept this. He said he wanted to
see a decision which at least appears logically justifiable. So, Ive gone on to consider this in
my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Incorrect home address recorded on Equifaxs system
Equifax say the incorrect home address being recorded for Mr E was down a matching error
on their database. They say they rely on a third party to provide them with customer
addresses. And on this occasion, they provided the door number and first line of address.
So, Equifaxs system matched the closest address based on this information  which was
the wrong address. Equifax have acknowledged this was an error and they have put this
right.
I note Mr E has told us that he thinks a substantial fine to Equifax would be an appropriate
way to put things right for him. But its important to stress that this service doesnt punish or
fine a business for getting things wrong. Instead, we can award compensation to consumers
for any financial loss and potential upset and inconvenience caused by a business error.
I understand it would have been concerning to Mr E to find out his credit file had him residing
at an incorrect address. Its not completely clear from the evidence provided what impact this
error had on Mr Es credit file at the time. Mr E has told us this error didnt impact him
financially or cause him any detriment. However, on the whole, Ive looked at the
inconvenience Mr E has experienced in having to put this error right which I understand was
frustrating for Mr E. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think Equifaxs offer of £100
fairly compensates Mr E for the distress caused.
Customer service issues
Mr E has provided us with copies of letters he sent to Equifax. I can see hes made several
attempts to try and rectify the address issue on his credit report. Mr E says there were some
delays in receiving the correspondence Equifax sent to him. And that some of the
correspondence were duplicates of what hed already received. Mr E says he often received
emails from Equifax in response to the letters he sent  which he says were unclear as they
often invited him to go via their support site to access their response.
Equifax have acknowledged the service they provided to Mr E couldve been better. Theyve
said they didnt necessarily respond to Mr Es points in the right way and also acknowledge
that they couldve provided Mr E with more of an explanation in terms of their support team
and why Mr E continued to receive their response via email rather than letter.
Its clear from everything Mr E has told us and the letters he sent to Equifax that he
experienced some inconvenience here. I can imagine it was disappointing for Mr E to not
receive a response to some of his letters, and instead receive emails which Mr E didnt feel
responded to his points.
There was also a two-month delay between when Mr E asked for his credit report to when
he received it. I can see from the information provided that this was down to clarifying a
difference in Mr Es address on the utility bill he provided as proof of ID  which was
requested by Equifax. I appreciate Mr E has said there was just a minor difference in the
address on the utility bill in comparison to Mr Es correct address and that Equifax couldve
worked this out themselves. However, I can understand from Equifaxs position that they
wanted to make sure they had Mr Es address recorded exactly how it should be 
particularly given the issues he was complaining about.
Mr E says he didnt receive Equifaxs letter letting him know of the difference in the address
on the utility bill and he has provided a copy of an automated email they sent him. I note
Equifax have said they couldve been clearer in explaining what the automated email wasasking Mr E to do. And from looking at a copy of the email, I agree Equifax couldve been
clearer as it doesnt let Mr E know what exactly what they needed.
I can imagine this experience was a disappointment to Mr E. Having considered all of the
distress and inconvenience caused in relation to the service Mr E received, I currently think
£100 fairly compensates Mr E.
Equifax responded and agreed with my provisional decision. Mr E responded and clarified 
that the original credit report incorrectly said hed been on the electoral register as a resident 
at his address from 1992-1996. And that it wasnt until he called Equifax that he realised he 
was showing as residing at an incorrect address. In summary, Mr E also said Equifax 
shouldve had the correct address on their system if they had the first line of his address. 
Mr E reiterated he doesnt have an online Equifax account so he couldnt see their response 
to his queries, despite Equifaxs invitations to review these online. And that for some letters, 
he received duplicate copies and others he didnt receive at all. Mr E says nominal 
compensation is unlikely to provide much incentive for improvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Es clarification about what the credit report showed at the time. Ive thought 
carefully again about everything Mr E has told us. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
its clear things have gone wrong here which Equifax acknowledged and apologised for. 
Whilst Mr E has said this didnt impact his credit file or cause him any financial loss, I 
recognise that Mr E has been caused inconvenience and also disappointment as a result of 
what went wrong. 
Having considered everything again, I still think £200 fairly compensates Mr E for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. I appreciate Mr E has said that this type of award 
is unlikely to provide much incentive for improvement. However, my role is to consider the 
impact on Mr E when something has gone wrong - rather than punish Equifax as I said 
previously. If there have been widespread regulatory failings by a business, this is something 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) may look in to. Mr E can contact them directly if he 
wishes to raise his concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I 
order Equifax Limited to pay Mr E £200 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman