DRN-3457471
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Skipton Building Society is requiring her to repay an interest only 
mortgage on her property even though she was unaware of the mortgage and it was taken 
out without her knowledge and consent, with a forgery of her signature.
What happened
Mrs B was for a time in a relationship with someone Ill call Mr J. They separated around 12 
years ago and Mr J passed away in 2021.
During their relationship Mrs B and Mr J purchased a property together with a mortgage with 
Skipton. Mrs B says she used to stay there but never permanently lived in the property. She 
says they bought the property as tenants in common with equal shares. Their relationship 
ended in 2009. 
Shortly before he died, Mrs B says Mr J told her that he had taken out a mortgage with 
Skipton in joint names in 2007, with further borrowing in 2008. This was the first Mrs B knew 
about it; her signature had been forged on the applications. 
In the meantime, the mortgage had fallen into arrears and Skipton threatened to repossess 
the property. Mr J had put the property on the market, with Mrs Bs agreement, but took it off 
the market again in 2020. At this stage, Mrs B says she still didnt know about the mortgage.
Following Mr Js death, Skipton has chased Mrs B and is expecting her to repay the 
mortgage, or will repossess the property.
Mrs B complained. She said she was unaware of the mortgage, had not agreed to it and had 
never seen any of the money. She didnt think it was fair that she was being expected to 
repay it. And she said that in any case, given their ages and income in 2008, Skipton could 
not have lent responsibly. She said Skipton should have contacted her to check that she 
wanted the mortgage and had agreed to it before lending. 
Mrs B also said that before his death Mr J had claimed support for mortgage interest, which 
DWP now wanted to be refunded. This showed that he couldnt afford the mortgage  and it 
wasnt fair that the payments would be refunded from the sale of the property. She wants 
Skipton to repay this cost too. 
Skipton said that it considered the application it received in 2008. The application had been 
signed by both Mr J and Mrs B, and the information it contained was consistent with what 
had been said in the application for the original mortgage in 2007. It said that Mr J had made 
further applications in the years since, again with Mrs Bs signed authority.
Skipton also said that Mrs B had called it in 2017 to say that she was no longer living in the 
property and to give a new address. It said that it had made clear to her at this time the full 
extent of the mortgage borrowing, but Mrs B had not questioned this at the time. It said that 
she could report the matter to the police, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong and 
would not release her from the mortgage.
While the complaint has been with us, the property has been sold and the mortgage repaid. 
Skipton told our investigator that, on review, it had noted that there were differences 
between Mrs Bs signatures on the original application and the further borrowing application. 
It said that it accepts it could have done more at the time to question that and to verify 
whether Mrs B was a party to the application. 
However, Skipton said that it still didnt think that Mrs B was unaware of the borrowing, since 
the money was paid into a joint account which also was used to pay the mortgage. She had 
discussed the mortgage  both parts  with Skipton after the term had ended, in 2017, but 
hadnt alleged fraud at that time. She only told Skipton she stopped living at the property in 
2017, and so would have received all mortgage statements up to that time. And, Skipton 
said, in any case the mortgage had been borrowed and had to be paid back. The question of 
who was responsible for which part of the borrowing was something for Mrs B to resolve with 
Mr Js estate. 
Our investigator said that Skipton could have done more to check the further borrowing 
application in 2008. Had it done so, the money might not have been lent. However, she 
didnt think she could ask Skipton to write it off, since the money had been lent and needed 
to be paid back. Who should do so was a matter for Mrs B to resolve with Mr Js estate. But 
she said that Skiptons failure to check the application properly in 2008 had caused Mrs B 
distress, for which it should pay £500 compensation.
Skipton agreed with our investigators view. But Mrs B didnt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documentary evidence
The original mortgage application in 2007 was submitted by a mortgage broker  Skipton did 
not deal with Mr J or Mrs B directly. The mortgage broker certified that he had met both Mr J 
and Mrs B and verified their identity  he quoted Mrs Bs passport and driving licence 
numbers on the application form. He also said that he had verified Mrs Bs address using a 
statement for her existing mortgage, quoting the account number. 
Certified copies of Mrs Bs driving licence and passport were also included with the 
application  a copy is still on the file that was provided to us by Skipton. The driving licence 
records her address as the property subject to this mortgage  not the address she has told 
us she was living at at the time. 
The details for Mr J and Mrs B on the application form appear to be completed in different 
hands. The application requested borrowing of £75,000 - £52,500 to repay an existing 
mortgage and £22,55 for home improvements. This is consistent with a mortgage statement, 
also included in the application, showing an existing joint mortgage in Mr J and Mrs Bs 
names, secured on this property, with a balance of £52,300. 
Payslips in Mrs Bs names, corresponding to the income details on the application form, 
were also included.
I am not a handwriting expert. But the signatures on the 2007 application form and Mrs Bs 
2021 complaint letter do not appear to me to be obviously different to each other  or to the 
signatures on the copies of her passport and driving licence. Mrs B says that she was never living at the property. In support of this, shes given us 
council tax bills for 2007-9, in which Mr J receives a single occupancy discount. 
A second application, for further borrowing of an additional £20,000, was submitted in 2008. 
This was said to be for kitchen improvements and building work. This application is again 
signed by Mr J and Mrs B. Although I am not a handwriting expert, Mrs Bs signatures on this 
application look somewhat different to her signatures on the 2007 application and the 2021 
complaint letter. 
The further borrowing application was approved, and the money was paid into a joint 
account held in the names of both Mr J and Mrs B. Skipton says that at this time, this 
account was also being used to make the mortgage payments. Mrs B says that she was 
unaware of this account, only discovering the paperwork after Mr Js death, and has 
complained to the relevant bank about it.
The term of the mortgage expired in 2016, and the capital had not been repaid. There is a 
record of Skipton meeting with Mr J (it seems from the notes that Mrs B was not present). It 
offered a one year term extension  subject to both Mr J and Mrs B signing and returning the 
agreement.
I stress again that I am not a handwriting expert  but Mrs Bs signature on the 2016 
document appears to me to be similar to the signatures on the 2008 application, rather than 
the 2007 or 2021 signatures. 
In 2017, there is a letter from Mrs B to Skipton. In that letter she says that she is aware that 
the term of the mortgage has come to an end, having been told that on a call with the 
Society that day. She said that she no longer lived at the property address, and that she 
would do what she could to ensure the mortgage was repaid. This letter is signed, and the 
signature appears to me to match the signatures from 2007 and 2021, not the signatures 
from 2008 and 2016. On that letter Mrs B quotes two accounts numbers  the account 
number for the original borrowing from 2007, and the account number for the additional 
borrowing in 2008. 
My conclusions
As I say, I am not a handwriting expert. But it does seem to me that the signatures on 
documents from 2007 and 2017 match that on the letters Mrs B has sent to us in 2021.
In addition to that, the mortgage application was submitted by a regulated mortgage broker. 
The broker has certified that he has verified Mrs Bs identity and has included copies of her 
passport and driving licence  which says she was living at the property  with the 
application. The application also included bank statements and payslips for Mrs B. And it 
showed that Mr J and Mrs B already had a joint mortgage over this property, which the 
Skipton mortgage was to replace. 
Although I havent seen the signed mortgage deed, because this was a new mortgage one 
would have needed to have been completed  and Mrs B would have needed to sign that 
too, agreeing to the mortgage over a property she jointly owned. Her signature on the deed 
would need to have been witnessed. And a solicitor would have been needed to carry out 
the required conveyancing work  who also would have needed to be satisfied that Mrs B 
was genuinely a party to the mortgage. 
It might be possible for Mr J to obtain Mrs Bs documents without her knowledge. But that 
doesnt explain why her driving licence shows that she was living at the address even though 
she says she wasnt. And it doesnt explain the existence of the earlier mortgage, also in joint names. And even if Mr J did obtain Mrs Bs documents without her knowledge, he 
wouldnt have been able to take the application further unless the broker knowingly 
participated in the fraud too. And the conveyancing solicitor would also need to have been 
satisfied that Mrs B wanted to allow Skipton to place a mortgage over her property.  
Taking all that into account, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that Mrs B didnt 
know about, and wasnt party to, the 2007 mortgage application. I think its more likely that 
she did jointly apply for it with Mr J, intending to repay the previous mortgage and increase 
the borrowing. 
However, I think theres more doubt about what happened in 2008. Ive said that it doesnt 
seem to me that the signatures on this application (or the 2016 term extension) match 
Mrs Bs signatures from 2007 or 2021. Skipton accepts that the signatures dont match. And 
as this was further borrowing on an existing mortgage, no further legal work would have 
been needed. It seems this application was made direct to Skipton, not via a broker. 
So its possible that Mr J spoke to a Skipton adviser alone, and then purported to have had 
Mrs B sign the forms separately. The 2016 term extension application records that Skipton 
saw Mr J alone, asking him to have Mrs B sign the forms afterwards. So this may also be 
what happened in 2008. Though I also have to bear in mind that the money was paid into a 
joint account.
Skipton accepts that theres doubt over Mrs Bs signatures on the 2008 application. And it 
accepts that it should have done more to verify her signature and confirm whether she 
agreed to the borrowing. I agree  it should have done. And had that happened, it may well 
have been the case that the 2008 borrowing would never have been agreed.
Putting things right
However, I dont think that means that Skipton should refund the capital to Mrs B, or should 
refund the interest benefit that was repaid to the DWP when the property was sold. 
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mrs B was a party to the 2007 application. So 
the £75,000 borrowed on that occasion  and interest charged on it  is properly owed to 
Skipton and ought to have been repaid.
That leaves the £20,000 borrowed in 2008. But even if this borrowing was the result of a 
fraud by Mr J, I dont think that means that Skipton ought to refund this amount to Mrs B. Ill 
explain why.
This is not a case where a stranger has committed fraud and stolen money from Mrs B  or 
where a stranger has taken a loan out in her name that she never knew about. 
This is a case where Mrs B already had a joint mortgage, secured over a property she 
owned. Even if Mrs B wasnt aware of the 2008 borrowing, theres no dispute that Mr J was, 
or that Mr J received the money. 
This was Mr Js property too. And he had given Skipton security for his borrowing, in the 
form of the mortgage over the property.
I havent found that Mr J fraudulently took out the 2008 borrowing without Mrs Bs knowledge 
 Ive merely found that there are more grounds for doubt about the 2008 application than 
the 2007 one. But even if I had found that Mrs B knew nothing about it, and should not be 
held liable for it, it would still be Mr Js borrowing, and would still be secured over the 
property that Mrs B owned jointly with Mr J.Therefore, even if I were to say that Mrs B should have no liability to repay this amount, 
Skipton would still be able to recover the borrowing when the property is sold  as indeed it 
did. Thats because it is entitled to recover Mr Js debts from Mr Js property using the 
security Mr J gave, and no one disputes this is Mr Js debt (whether or not its also Mrs Bs).
In other words, whether or not I find that Mrs B was unaware of the 2008 application, she 
would be left in the same position. Either way, when the property was sold, the full amount of 
Skiptons mortgage  both 2007 and 2008 borrowing  would need to be repaid first, and 
then the remaining equity divided between Mrs B and Mr Js estate. Whether or not there 
was fraud in 2008, Skipton was entitled to recover the full amount of the mortgage when the 
property was sold.
Skipton has no involvement in how the equity is divided up following a property sale once the 
mortgage is paid off. And I have no jurisdiction to arbitrate between Mrs B and Mr Js estate 
either.
If Mrs B was party to the 2008 application, she might be entitled to half the remaining equity. 
And if she wasnt, she might be entitled to more than that on the basis that Mr Js estate 
should be responsible for the 2008 borrowing alone. But either way, that is a matter for Mrs 
B to resolve with Mr Js estate  its not something I can deal with. 
All I can consider is whether or not Skipton acted fairly in recovering the full amount of the 
mortgage debt when the property was sold. And for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that 
it did, whether or not Mrs B was party to the 2008 borrowing.
I also cant fairly ask Skipton to refund the DWP payments Mr J claimed, and which were 
recovered when the property was sold. The support for mortgage interest benefit acts as a 
loan, to be repaid when the property is sold. This was Mr Js mortgage, and if the DWP 
determined that he was entitled to the benefit to assist him with the repayments, its entitled 
to recover that money. Most if not all of this mortgage was Mrs Bs too, she was jointly and 
severally liable for it, and it was open to her to make payments if she was concerned about 
the consequences of Mr J not being able to do so from his own resources.
But while I dont think Skipton acted unfairly in recovering the debt from the property sale, it 
itself accepts that it could have scrutinised the application more carefully in 2008. Had it 
done so, theres a possibility the further lending would never have been agreed. Its now 
offered to pay Mrs B £500 compensation for failing to consider the application more carefully 
at the time. I think thats a fair offer in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Skipton Building Societys offer of £500 
compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint and it should pay that 
amount to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman