DRN-3224835
The complaint
Mr K complains to M & G Securities Limited about a transfer request that was delayed and 
ultimately incorrectly processed as a surrender  he seeks compensation for his financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr K had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with M&G. In 2020, he decided to transfer it to 
a new provider. He signed a transfer authority form on 1 May which allowed his new provider 
to start the transfer process. He told us the new provider had confirmed receipt of this form 
on 7 May. But the transfer didnt complete until mid-July  more than double the amount of 
time it ought to have taken. Mr K was also disappointed to see M&G had sold his investment 
and just sent the cash proceeds to the new provider, rather than keeping his investment in-
tact and instead sending it in-specie. 
Unhappy with the process, Mr K complained to M&G. They looked into what had happened. 
They agreed there were two instances where things couldve been better  firstly, that they 
could have been clearer with the new provider about how copies of documents ought to be 
certified. And secondly, that once deciding to accept the copy they ought to have sent the 
new provider an ISA valuation rather than simply proceeding with the transfer itself. But they 
didnt agree they were wrong to have sent the transfer as cash as Mr K had signed to 
authorise the new provider to instruct this, and the new providers letter had referred to how 
M&G ought to send the cash (whether by CHAPS or cheque). 
M&G didnt think any delay was a result of shortcomings on their part, so they didnt think 
they were responsible for any financial disadvantage Mr K felt hed suffered. But they 
recognised they could have been clearer with the new provider about what they needed, so 
they sent Mr K a cheque for £50 to apologise. 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked for our help. He told us about how his investment had 
fallen in value during the delay  had it have been transferred in cash earlier, itd have been 
worth more. And had it have been transferred in-specie as hed wanted, he wouldnt have 
been out of the market  especially given a cheque was sent rather than the money being 
transferred electronically. He referred to the ISA transfer guidance that noted transfers taking 
up to 30 days as in his case, this was far exceeded. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks concerns  he tried to work with the new provider 
to better understand whatd happened between them and M&G, but unfortunately they didnt 
reply. From what our investigator had seen, despite Mr K beginning the transfer in early May, 
the new provider hadnt initiated the process with M&G until later in June  so he didnt think 
the delay from those first five or six weeks were M&Gs fault. He also didnt think M&G had 
done something wrong by transferring the value in cash rather than in-specie. 
Mr K didnt agree  he didnt think the financial loss had been taken into account and pointed 
to the growth in the fund hed missed out on. He also didnt agree the ISA timescales had 
been met. Or that M&G were allowed to have transferred the cash. So as an agreement 
wasnt reached, the case was referred for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to consider M&Gs actions in Mr Ks transfer, Ive consider what both parties have 
shared in order to establish a timeline. Unfortunately I have not been able to consider the 
new providers version of events as they have not responded to our service. From what I 
have been able to review I can see:
Mr K signed an ISA manager transfer form with the new provider on 1 May 2020. 
M&G received a call from the new provider on 12 June  they were asking for an 
update on the transfer, but M&G explained they were yet to receive the request or 
authority. The new provider told M&G theyd send it.
On 18 June M&G received a valuation request and copy of Mr Ks transfer authority 
from the new provider  M&G pointed out that the new providers letter was dated 
10 June despite Mr Ks authority letter having been signed on 1 May. 
M&G replied to the new provider six working days later on 26 June  they told them 
they needed the request to be sent electronically. But this wasnt quite right  what 
M&G ought to have told the new provider is that there had been an issue with the 
certified copy of Mr Ks transfer authority form theyd been sent. 
The new provider called M&G on 3 July for an update. It was then that M&G 
explained that they hadnt been able to proceed with the request due to the issue 
with the authority form. Despite this, as M&G had previously spoken to Mr K and hed 
informed them of his intention to transfer, they made an exception and decided to 
accept the copy. 
Two working days later on 7 July, M&G instructed the transfer. The proceeds were 
sent by cheque to the new provider on 10 July. 
For M&G to transfer Mr Ks ISA, a process needed to be followed. This typically begins with 
a new provider reaching out to a current provider to notify them of their clients intention to 
leave, along with some authority. The new provider usually establishes the ISA value before 
formally confirming that they will accept a transfer. The mechanics of that are then decided 
before the money or stock is moved. What appears to have happened in Mr Ks case is that 
his current provider, being M&G, were approached for an update on 12 June but this contact 
wasnt sufficient to begin the process given the lack of paperwork.
Instead, the new provider started the process by way of the communication M&G received 
on 18 June. Though this was around six weeks after Mr K wanted the process to begin, I 
cannot see that this delay was the fault of M&G.
Once M&G had received the communication, they made a mistake. They wrote to the new 
provider to ask for an electronic version of the request. As I noted above, instead it seems 
there was an issue with the certification of the form  Mr K had kept the original and instead 
emailed a copy to his new provider which theyd in turn forwarded on. I do however note that 
this issue was remedied five working days later when the new provider called M&G and the 
decision was made to proceed given not only the contact with Mr K but also the context of 
the pandemic and its impact on the environment they were operating in. So I only consider M&Gs mistake to have set things back by a week  especially given the transfer was then 
instructed two working days later. 
From all that I have seen, M&G acted within reasonable timescales with each step they were 
required to perform. Though they made a mistake and caused a delay of a week, I think the 
£50 they have already offered is enough to recognise the inconvenience caused. That week 
aside, I cant see M&G unfairly delayed the transfer. 
M&G made another mistake when actioning Mr Ks transfer  as soon as theyd made the 
decision to proceed, they ought to have written to the new provider with a valuation to 
ensure they would and could accept it. Instead, M&G sold the investment and sent the cash 
by cheque. This mistake however did not result in an issue for the new provider  they were 
able to accept the incoming funds without issue. 
Instead, a knock on impact of this mistake was that M&G didnt have the new provider 
confirm whether the transfer was to be in cash or in-specie. I note that on his original transfer 
form, to the question how do you want this transfer to be made? Mr K answered, stocks and 
residual cash. However, I also recognise that the new providers covering letter said 
Once weve sent our acceptance, you can send cash balanced by CHAPS to [details] 
Alternatively, if youre unable to send electronic payments, please send a cheque made 
payable to [details]. Whats important here is that the new providers covering letter didnt 
reference a stock transfer and instead gave two options for transfer  both being different 
ways in which cash could be sent.
In their final response letter, M&G explained to Mr K that theyd interpreted the new 
providers letter to require a cash transfer. And crucially, the authority form Mr K signed did 
give permission for the transfer to go as cash, despite the preference for stock. So I dont 
think what was executed wasnt something that had been authorised. Given the new 
provider gave M&G two options for transfer, both being cash, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of them to have interpreted the request in the way they did. 
Mr K says hes missed out on growth in the fund  but having checked the prices for the 
weeks delay M&G caused, he didnt miss any growth then. And while the chart hes shared 
showed growth between November 2020 and November 2021, he was able to reinvest his 
money once it had been deposited within his new providers ISA. So if he has missed this 
opportunity for growth, that is a result of his subsequent, alternative investment decisions 
rather than the fault of M&G. 
From all that I have seen, M&G did cause a small delay with Mr Ks transfer but I think the 
offer they made was a fair given the impact. And I dont think M&G made a mistake in 
surrendering the investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman