DRN-3817942
The complaint
Mr K says Sabre Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined to cover a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy, saying it was fraudulent. 
What happened
A named driver on Mr Ks policy (Mr S) was driving Mr Ks car, carrying three passengers. 
He told Mr K he had to brake suddenly when a car in front made a sudden turn into a side 
road. He said immediately after that a car hit Mr Ks car in the rear. Mr S said the other cars 
driver (Mr D) was driving too fast and wasnt paying attention, so he couldnt stop in time. 
He said two of the passengers were injured due to the rear impact. But Mr D said there was 
no car in front of Mr Ks car when it stopped - and he thought the incident was staged.  
Sabre investigated the claim using an external firm of loss assessors, plus a firm of 
independent vehicle assessors. After considering all the details that were gathered, Sabre 
said there was no evidence of a car in front of Mr Ks car. It said there were discrepancies 
between the accounts given by Mr S and his passengers and concluded that the incident 
was staged. It pointed out the policy term that says if the policy holder or an authorised 
driver acts fraudulently, the claim wont be covered, and the policy will be cancelled. 
Our investigator noted that Mr K objected to having a fraud marker against him and to the 
substantially higher premium hed had to pay after the cancellation. And he thought Sabre, 
or its agent, had changed the witness statements  insisting that all four people in his car 
saw the car in front make a sudden turn. The investigator also noted that Mr K said Mr D had 
admitted fault at the scene and had offered to pay for the damage to Mr Ks car. 
In the investigators opinion, Sabre had carried out a full investigation and had acted in line 
with the policy. She noted that there was no fraud marker against Mr K and that it wasnt 
unreasonable for his premiums to rise after the cancellation. She didnt think the witness 
statements had been changed. She noted that two of them had been signed and returned 
with no alterations. She noted the inconsistencies between all the passengers accounts of 
events. And she pointed out that the vehicle assessor had estimated that the impact damage 
pointed to Mr Ds car having hit Mr Ks car at a speed of around eight miles an hour. 
Mr K said an impact at that speed wouldnt have caused so much damage - and that Mr D 
had offered him money not to make a claim. He said there was evidence of one passenger 
going to hospital that night. He said the investigator should get reports from the police and 
the hospital and consider the messages sent to him by Mr D. And later on, he said Mr D was 
using a mobile phone when the accident happened.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first point to make is that Mr K wasnt there when the accident happened. That 
means some of the points hes made are based on what others told him. And some points 
seem to be assumptions on his part (for example, that Mr D was using his mobile phone). 
But we can only consider the evidence, and whats most likely to have happened, rather than 
relying on a consumers second-hand view of events or their unfounded allegations. 
Mr S and one passenger said there was a car in front that made a sudden turn, but they 
couldnt describe the car. The other passengers said they didnt see a car or that there 
wasnt one. Mr D said there was no other car. These accounts are set out in the statements 
taken by the loss assessors. Such firms are relied on across the industry for their 
independence and professionalism. I think its inconceivable that the firm used by Sabre 
would have changed the passengers statements. And in any event, two of them reviewed 
and returned their statements, signed, and without any amendments, which confirms theyre 
accurate. In these circumstances (and given that Mr Ds account was consistent from the 
start)  I can see why Sabre had concerns about the conflicting accounts given by Mr S and 
one passenger when considering what was more likely than not to have happened. 
The report Sabre got from the independent vehicle assessor showed the damage to the cars 
was consistent with the collision reported by Mr D. I dont think Mr K can challenge the 
opinion of a qualified engineer about the damage that would have been caused by a low-
speed impact. But I think its irrelevant anyway. Theres no dispute that Mr Ks car was hit 
from behind and was damaged. The issue of concern is why it stopped so suddenly.
I can see why Sabre was concerned about the discrepancies in the statements about the 
injuries sustained by two of the passengers. The passengers accounts vary, even about 
whether the impact from Mr Ds car caused them. And I dont think Sabre needed to get a 
report from the hospital. It didnt dispute that one passenger was taken there  although she 
wasnt treated for any injury. I think the same applies to not getting a police report, given that 
they were taking no further action about the incident and didnt see the collision.
In my opinion, Sabre carried out a full investigation before deciding not to cover the claim 
and to cancel the policy. I think the information gathered in the investigation supports its 
decision that -  on the balance of probabilities - the claim was fraudulent. I know Mr K is 
distressed by what happened, especially as he wasnt driving the car. But Sabre hasnt 
placed a fraud marker against his name, nor has it recorded an entry against him on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE). As I think Sabre acted reasonably and 
in line with the policys terms and conditions, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman