DRN-2953999
The complaint
Mr P says IG Index Limited (IG) is responsible for a total loss of over 830,000 GBP in his IG 
Spread-Betting account (the account). He seeks compensation, from IG, for his total loss.
What happened
Mr P presented his case to IG and to this service in very detailed terms. Whilst the details 
set out the grounds on which he makes his claim against IG, the crux of the claim is 
essentially as stated above. The grounds he presented can be summarised as follows:
Primarily, he says he was inappropriately induced into having his account reclassified 
from a retail client account to an elective professional client account; that the 
reclassification itself was inappropriate; that thereafter his trading was devoid of the 
regulatory protection he previously had as a retail client  and, he argues, that he 
should have continued to have; that his trading after the reclassification was subject 
to higher risks/higher leverage allowances and to trading inducements in both 
respects; and that, as a result, the total loss he seeks compensation for was incurred 
in the period between 23 March 2020 (when his account was reclassified) and 21 
April 2020 (when he stopped trading).
He set out detailed references to specific Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) rules, and guidance, which he 
says IG had breached in the matter and which he says confirm the 
rights/benefits/protection he ought to have had, but was deprived, as a retail client 
and/or as a professional client who sought to return to  or should have been 
returned to  retail client status (in the account and in IGs service to him).
He says he was denied guidance and support he was promised in the course of the 
reclassification; and that this contributed to his losses.
He says he was obstructed from withdrawing equity from his account in the week 
beginning 16 March 2020, prior to the reclassification and the onset of losses.
He submitted documentary evidence which he said showed how his losses 
accumulated after the reclassification (in contrast to his trading performance 
previously), how his leverage exposure increased after the reclassification (in 
contrast to what it previously was), his inability to revert to retail client status, how a 
previous application for reclassification he made was rejected (and shows that the 
successful application he made shortly thereafter was wrongly assessed and should 
have been rejected too) and how he was induced to trade high volumes and to trade 
speculative markets.
IG rejected Mr Ps complaint. In the main, it said:
Account information shows that there was already a running loss in the account of 
over 187,000 GBP on 18 March 2020, before the reclassification. This increased 
thereafter, but it is inaccurate to say the accounts total losses all happened after 
reclassification. It is also inaccurate to say the reclassification changed Mr Ps 
approach to trading to the extent of causing the loss he has referred to. Account 
information shows little notable change. Where his trading frequency, in the FTSE 
and Wall Street products he traded, increased his average trade sizes decreased; 
and in another product he traded his trading frequency decreased whilst average 
trading size remained broadly similar.
Mr Ps many arguments about the protection and rights of retail clients  and about 
rules and regulations in this respect  are irrelevant given that he was not a retail 
client during the period he has complained about. He was an elective professional 
client. He has argued that he was obstructed from reverting to retail client status but 
there is no evidence that he ever asked for that, despite notice during the 
reclassification process that it was his responsibility to make such a request if he 
wished. He has also argued that IG failed to review and revert the reclassification in 
response to a change in his circumstances, but he also had notice that it was his 
responsibility to update IG on any such change, which he never did, and relevant 
FCA Conduct of Business (COBS) guidance confirms that it is incumbent on the 
professional client to notify the firm of changes that could affect the professional 
client classification. He has also argued that IG had discretion, on its own initiative 
and under COBS guidance, to return him to retail client status, but there is no 
evidence that it had cause to exercise any such discretion.
Mr P says he was induced into the reclassification, this is inaccurate, he initiated the 
reclassification application without any targeted invitation from IG and its platform 
content on the reclassification clearly allows clients to abandon the process at any 
time or, if they continue, it clearly sets out the pros and cons of reclassification. He 
says a previous application was rejected so the idea of reclassification must have 
been inappropriate for him and the second application should have been rejected 
too. This is inaccurate. His first application was not rejected, the email evidence he 
submitted on this matter clearly shows that the application was incomplete and 
expired.
The reclassification Mr P asked for was granted because all evidence available to IG 
showed it was appropriate. Up to the point reclassification was granted, he had made 
a total of over 720,000 GBP in trading profit, which indicated a high degree of skill on 
his part. IG applied the regulatory quantitative and qualitative tests to his application. 
This history of trading and trading profit (and the trading skill indicated by that), and 
the fact that he had held his IG account since 2013, supported the conclusion that he 
passed the latter, and that he was capable of making his own investment decisions 
and understood the risks involved. With regards to the quantitative test, it relied upon 
and had no cause to doubt what he stated in his application  that he had placed 
30+ significant sized trades and had traded (in CFDs, spread-bets and forex) an 
average of 10 times in each of the previous four quarters with IG and other 
providers; it relied upon the 95 significant trades he had placed preceding his 
reclassification application; and it relied on his IG cash/equity account balance being 
in excess of 645,000 GBP (therefore in excess of the regulatory requirement for a 
client portfolio exceeding 500,000 EUR). It was reasonably satisfied his application 
passed all requirements of both tests based on the facts of his account and on what 
he said in his application and, contrary to what he alleges, it made no assumption 
about his market knowledge and experience.
Where or if Mr P claims or suggests that the account initially granted to him in 2013 
was inappropriate it disagrees with this too. At the time, the account was assessed as appropriate for him as a retail client and he was given, then and since, ample 
warnings about the risks of trading  on its platform, in the Key Information 
Documents and Risk Disclosure Notice given to him, and in the client agreement he 
was party to. In the 2013 application he said  relevant to the preceding three years  
he had traded shares/bonds frequently, had traded over-the-counter (OTC) 
derivatives frequently and had traded either with advice or on an execution only 
basis. Again, it had no cause to doubt what he said so it was reasonable for it to rely 
on what he said  and COBS 10.2.4, at the time, said it was entitled to do this.
Given the significant profit Mr P had made at the point of reclassification and given 
that his application also said he had annual earnings of 300,000 GBP and savings 
between 500,000 GBP and 1 million GBP there was no cause for unaffordability 
concerns at the time.
Rebate offers were to reward long-standing clients for their continuing business, not 
to induce trading as Mr P claims. His account was based on an execution only 
service so there was never any promise or suggestion of advisory support for his 
trading. There is no evidence of a withdrawal request from him that was declined. 
Account information shows that a single withdrawal of 3,000 GBP was successfully 
made on 16 March 2020.
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded it should not be upheld. Overall, 
he could not find that the reclassification was not appropriate for Mr P and he shared some 
of IGs reasons in this respect  though he noted that IG could have verified more about his 
recent trading experience at the time of the reclassification. He found no evidence that Mr P 
sought to revert to retail client status and no evidence of a withdrawal request he had made 
that was obstructed. On balance, he also did not consider that the reclassification was 
responsible for Mr Ps actions and inactions during the relevant period.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said 
evidence of his attempts to withdraw funds should be obtained from IG as he does not have 
access to that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. He has competently cited many specific 
regulatory rules in his submissions. He did this, understandably, in order to support his case. 
However, his case is the relevant subject matter and his case boils down to the financial loss 
he seeks to recover from IG because of the wrongdoings he alleges against IG. As such, 
regulations and rules are relevant to this decision only in this context. For this reason, I have 
taken a composite approach to my findings and I do not consider it necessary to address 
each cited rule/regulation in isolation.
 Appropriateness in 2013
The appropriateness of Mr Ps account at any time prior to 23 March 2020 does not appear 
to be the main focus of his case. A complaint in this respect would appear to be somewhat 
self-defeating given evidence that up to around this date the account had served him very 
well, with overall net profits that appear to have stood, significantly, at over 720,000 GBP. 
The suggestion being he had no incentive to be unhappy with the account until the accumulation of post reclassification losses. In any case, it appears to be a part of the 
complaint so it must be addressed. 
Appropriateness, under the COBS rules, must be assessed by a firm in order to determine 
whether (or not) a client (or potential client) has sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in the service or product offered by the firm. This is distinct 
from the duty to provide risk warnings. Risk warnings provide information on risks, whereas 
an appropriateness assessment is the process by which firms must assess whether (or not) 
a client has enough knowledge and experience to understand such risks. In this respect, 
information about the type of service(s) and investment product(s) the client is familiar with 
and about the clients experience in any such service(s) and investment product(s) is 
important.
A firm is not required to notify its client if the assessment concludes that its service or 
product is appropriate. However, it is obliged to warn the client if the assessment concludes 
that its service or product is inappropriate. If, despite the warning, the client still wishes to 
proceed with the service or product the firm has discretion to allow the client to do so  
having regard to the circumstances. 
There was no inappropriateness warning, to Mr P, required in 2013 because IG assessed 
the account as appropriate for him. I too have considered the evidence and information it 
referred to and, on balance, I cannot reasonably conclude that the account would have been 
inappropriate for the profile Mr P presented at the time. I am mindful that it was/is a spread-
betting account, which relates to a form of derivatives trading and which is commonly 
regarded as having higher risks than investing in mainstream stocks and shares. However, 
in addition to the frequent share dealing experience he referred to, over the preceding three 
years, Mr P also referred to frequent OTC derivatives trading over the same period. It would 
have been reasonable for IG to conclude that he had sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand spread-betting and the risks inherent within it. In addition, and as IG as pointed 
out, he appears to have been given ample risk warnings at the time. Whilst this was not a 
substitute for an appropriateness assessment, that assessment was properly done any way 
and the warnings ensured risks were made transparent to him.
There is no ongoing responsibility upon a firm to continue reviewing appropriateness after 
the initial assessment. COBS has provision  for this, which says a firm  is not required to 
make a new assessment [of appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate transaction 
 by its client(s), and that a firm complies with the rules for assessing appropriateness  
provided that it makes the necessary appropriateness assessment before beginning that 
service. The implication arising from this is that a fresh appropriateness test could be 
prompted where there is a change of service. In Mr Ps case the reclassification of his 
account in 2020, from retail to elective professional, inevitably resulted in a different/new 
account service. I do not consider it necessary to apply the same appropriateness 
considerations to this because, below, I will be considering whether (or not) the 
reclassification complied with the arguably stricter rules for the reclassification of a retail 
client to an elective professional client.
Reclassification in 2020
Under COBS 3.5.3 IG was obliged to meet three requirements in the reclassification of       
Mr Ps account  the qualitative test, the quantitative test and the procedural 
requirements. 
It is worth noting at the outset of this section that there is a lack of factual evidence to 
support his argument that he was unduly influenced and/or induced towards the 
reclassification. In some cases, the idea of reclassification can indeed be initiated by a firm, for example in the context of the firm taking a view that, based on account activity, the 
account holder might wish to consider a reclassification. No such thing happened in this 
case. Evidence suggests that the idea to reclassify was Mr Ps and he initiated the 
application process. I am not persuaded by his argument about being targeted for and 
misled into the reclassification by IG. Available evidence does not show this. On balance, 
and in simple terms, what evidence shows is that it was his idea and his desire to have his 
account reclassified. 
I should also note that Mr Ps own evidence shows that his first reclassification application 
was not rejected as he claims. Instead, the email evidence from February 2020 expressly 
confirms that his application at the time expired as it had been left open for too long (more 
than 14 days).  Therefore, there is no basis for his invitation to us to draw the inference that 
an earlier rejection means the March application should have been rejected too  there was 
no earlier rejection.
COBS 3.5.3 says:
A firm may treat a client  as an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) 
and, where applicable (2).
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged that the client is capable of making his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risk involved (the qualitative test).
(2) In relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
a. The client has carried out transactions in significant size on the relevant market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters.
b. The size of the clients financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000.
c. The client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged.
(the quantitative test): and
(3) The following procedure is followed:
a. The client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a 
professional client either generally or in respect of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
b. The firm must give the client a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client may lose; and
c. The client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it 
is aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
There is sufficient evidence that paragraph (3), above, was satisfied during Mr Ps 
reclassification process and it does not appear that this is in dispute. 
With regards to the qualitative test in paragraph (1) above, I am persuaded by IGs argument 
about the implications of Mr Ps trading success at the time. The significant level of overall 
net trading profits he had achieved in his account at the time of the assessment can 
reasonably be considered as beyond the norm  especially in the wider context of 
derivatives trading where firms commonly report that around 70% (and sometimes more) of 
their account holders make losses. In this context, the achievement of net trading profits of over 720,000 GBP would reasonably have been viewed as impressive and as evidence that 
Mr P had  the expertise, experience and knowledge  that made him  capable of 
making his own investment decisions and understanding the risk involved  in a 
professional account. IG also appears to have considered that he engaged in trading with 
other firms, so that would have added to such a view. Overall, I am satisfied that IGs 
assessment of Mr Ps application under the qualitative test was reasonable, as was the 
outcome of the test.
Evidence also supports IGs conclusion with regards to the second limb of the quantitative 
test  in paragraph (2) (b) above. It had direct access to information about cash/equity that 
Mr P owned/had at the time of the application that went beyond the 500,000 EUR level. This 
too is not in dispute  and cannot reasonably be disputed given account information about 
the state of cash/equity in the account at the time.
Paragraph (2) (c) above has not featured in this case and it does not need to, because the 
rule says only two of the sub-sections need to be satisfied. With (2) (b) satisfied and (2) (c) 
omitted, my next consideration is (2) (a).
I understand the investigators slight reservation about the application of this part of the test, 
but I consider there is enough ground to conclude that IGs assessment of it was reasonably 
conducted. Closer analysis shows that Mr Ps profits resulted from his trading over a number 
of months from late 2019 to around the time of the reclassification process in March 2020. 
As such, the investigator was concerned by the absence of evidence, specifically in his IG 
account, that he had traded with requisite trade sizes and frequency over the preceding four 
quarters. His IG trading did not cover the preceding four quarters.
However, what Mr P presented in the process was that he met the quantitative test because 
he had traded in sizes and with frequency beyond what was required with IG and other firms. 
IG explains that it had enough information in the months of trading in his IG account to 
satisfy itself that he was indeed a very active trader trading in significant sizes and evidence 
confirms this. IG also appears to say that given the activities in his IG account and in the 
absence of reason to doubt his claim about trading elsewhere, it was reasonable overall to 
conclude that he met the qualitative test.
On balance, I am satisfied that this was a reasonable approach. I am mindful that COBs 
3.5.6 R requires firms to  ensure that the client requesting to be treated as an elective 
professional client satisfies the qualitative test and, where applicable, the 
relevant quantitative test before  deciding to accept a request for re-categorisation as 
an elective professional client . This could be argued as an indication of a firms 
responsibility to verify outcomes of the tests, if so I am satisfied, on balance, that IGs 
verification of the contents of Mr Ps IG account was enough to serve as a basis to accept  - 
in the absence of reason(s) not to  what he presented about his overall trading in the 
previous four quarters. IG could have insisted on evidence of any trading with other firms, 
but I am not quite persuaded in this case that it should have done so.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not consider that Mr P was wrongly 
reclassified as an elective professional client.
Regulatory Protection
Mr Ps account was correctly reclassified, upon his request, as an elective professional client 
account. Thereafter, regulatory protection for retail clients was irrelevant to him and his 
account. 
He has argued that he should have been returned to retail client status. There is no evidence that he asked IG to return his account to retail client status and there is no evidence that he 
was obstructed from achieving that. I agree with IG  based on evidence  that there was 
notice to him, during the reclassification process, that he had to initiate such a request. IG is 
also correct in citing guidance that it is for the professional client to update the firm on 
changes in circumstances relevant to the reclassification. This stands to reason, given that a 
firm could likely be unaware otherwise. Mr P did not do this, so I do not consider that IG can 
be expected to have reviewed the reclassification on its own initiative. For this reason, I also 
do not consider that IG can be blamed for not being aware of the change(s) in his financial 
circumstances, after the reclassification, that he has described.
Guidance and Support
As IG says, and as is confirmed by the terms for the account, Mr Ps account  before and 
after the reclassification  was based on an execution only service. That meant IG had no 
duty to advise him or his trading and I have not seen evidence that it ever undertook to do 
so. If Mr Ps point with regards to guidance and support is about general account and/or 
trading related information, I have not seen evidence that he was deprived access to any of 
such information from the platform/website or that IG refused any request from him for such 
general information. If his point goes beyond this and goes as far as an expectation of 
guidance and support akin to advice, IG had no obligation to provide that.
Equity Withdrawal
Like the investigator, I have not seen evidence that IG ever deprived Mr P access to his net 
cash/equity balance in the account. If he says he experienced obstructed attempts to make 
such a withdrawal, IGs evidence is essentially that it has no record of this. I note that his 
response to us has been that we should ask IG for such evidence but it has already made its 
position clear in this respect, so if Mr P maintains that his withdrawal attempts were 
obstructed it was for him to provide a form(s) of evidence to establish that  and he has not 
done so.
Trading Inducements
IG is a business, part of that business was the trading account service it provided to Mr P, 
the terms of that service made clear the commercial basis for the relationship and the 
connection between his use of the trading account service and revenue earned by IG (which 
were, in the main, the spreads in the trades). Overall, it cannot reasonably be said that Mr P 
was unaware of these matters, or unaware that it was just as much in IGs interest to make a 
profit from its business as it was in his interest to make a profit from trading.
I set out the above as context for Mr Ps references to material that he considers to have 
been unreasonable inducements to trade higher volumes and more speculatively. I have not 
seen evidence of unreasonable inducements. If he means material and platform content 
about what he was able to do  in terms of trading  in the newly reclassified professional 
account, I consider that to have been no more than information about the reclassified 
account service. IG was entitled to promote its business in the new service and such 
promotion does not necessarily amount to undue or unreasonable pressure unless there is 
evidence of undue or unreasonable pressure faced by Mr P from IG at the time. There does 
not appear to be such evidence. Furthermore, as IG analysed, it seems to be arguable that 
there was not a notable or significant change in his approach to trading between the periods 
prior to and after the reclassification.
My final decision
Overall, on balance and for all the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman