DRN-2917388
The complaint
Mr T and Miss P say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. Mr T and Miss P applied for the PPI at 
a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Halifax didnt respond to our adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Miss Ps case. 
I think Mr T and Miss Ps PPI policy was most likely mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to give Mr T and Miss P information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. But based on the evidence Ive got, I cant see that it gave them clear enough 
information about the policys cost and benefit at the point of sale.
I think this wouldve mattered for Mr T and Miss P, because this particular PPI policy was 
expensive for the benefit it provided. And so I dont think Mr T and Miss P would have 
thought it was good value for money if theyd known how much it cost and what it paid out.
I dont think Mr T and Miss P were likely to have bought the policy if Halifax had given them 
enough information about it. So I think its most likely that Mr T and Miss P have lost out 
because of what Halifax got wrong. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should put Mr T and Miss P in the position theyd be 
in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr T and Miss P back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr T and Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give 
Mr T and Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr T 
and Miss P can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr T and Miss Ps complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman