DRN-4199633
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly blocked 
his card. 
What happened
Mr S says he tried to use his Tesco credit card to pay for a deposit for a car rental, but his 
card had been blocked by Tesco without his knowledge. He said he phoned Tesco who said 
they could not unblock the card due to persistent debt and he would need to wait over two 
weeks despite his account being in credit. He says the call handler arranged for a manager 
to call him, but he didnt receive a call back. He said his monthly statements did not tell him 
his card was blocked. Mr S made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco partially upheld Mr S complaint. They said within their correspondence to his 
registered address, they explained how persistent debt worked and they confirmed when 
month 36 is reached, a suspension would be applied, and they wouldn't be in the position to 
control this. They said the persistent debt status of his account wasnt on his monthly 
statements as this is not a requirement for them to do so. Tesco said that in regards to the 
card suspension procedure, they confirmed within the letters that when the balance was 
repaid they would conduct a review and be in touch to confirm if the card could be 
unsuspended or not, so they hadnt set any expectations, that the card would become active 
instantly when the balance is cleared.
Tesco said Mr S card was reactivated from 4 May 2023 after a review was conducted on his 
cycle date. They said the call handler told Mr S that this would take up to 72 hours from his 
cycle, although this isn't correct, as his card became active on his statement production date 
and no later. They said they would send him £25 to the bank account they held on file for 
him regarding the confusion in these timescales. He said that Tesco have since reduced his 
credit limit and he wanted it increased back to £1,500. Mr S brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr S complaint. She said as Tesco have shown the 
persistent debt letters were sent to his address and the account was suspended in line with 
these letters and the terms and conditions of the account, she was unable to conclude Tesco 
had made an error. She said Mr S credit limit had been reduced, but as this was reduced in 
line with the terms and conditions, she was unable to ask Tesco to increase the limit.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he would like to recover his out of pocket expenses such as the loss 
of the car rental, work, and travel expenses. He says his monthly Tesco statement does 
make it clear the funds are available and it stated £1,500 was available (prior to the credit 
limit decrease), and it doesnt state there was a block on his card, and Tesco did not inform 
him of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what to 
include on the credit card statements, this includes the status of the persistent debt or to 
inform a customer that their card is blocked. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco Bank to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr S has told us that he didnt receive any notification that his credit card had been blocked. 
So Ive looked at the communications which Tesco said they have sent him. These were 
sent to his registered address, so if Mr S did not receive these letters, I cant hold Tesco 
responsible for any postal errors. They wrote to him on 4 September 2018. This informed 
him about what persistent debt was and the consequences of being in persistent debt. One 
of the things mentioned was stopping you from making further transactions on your card. 
So Mr S was made aware of this being a possibility as a result of being considered in 
persistent debt.
Tesco then wrote to Mr S on 4 June 2019. This told him that If you're unable to increase 
your payments over the next 9 months, you may no longer be able to spend on your card. 
This is because new regulation means we may have to limit or stop any future transactions 
being made on your card, until the full balance has been paid back. So Im satisfied that the 
letter was clear that if Mr S was unable to increase his payments over the next nine months 
he may no longer be able to spend on his card.
Tesco sent Mr S another letter dated 4 February 2020 which said Weve been in touch 
before to let you know youll lose the use of your card on your next statement date if you 
dont increase your credit card payments. Due to the pandemic, Mr S card wasnt 
suspended on his next statement date. 
But Tesco sent Mr S a letter dated 5 September 2020 which said Weve been in touch 
before to let you know the scheduled suspension of your card would be delayed until 1 
October 2020. This was to make sure you had access to the credit you needed during these 
unprecedented times. As were now approaching that date, we wanted to update you and 
share your next steps. To help reduce your balance, and make repaying easier, your card 
will be suspended as planned, on your October monthly statement. So Im satisfied that Mr 
S was told that his card would be suspended from his October statement date.
Although Mr S was sent this letter telling him his card would be suspended in October 2020, 
Tesco sent him another letter dated 3 October 2020 which said Your card has been 
suspended - heres what you need to know. Weve written to you before about the actions 
you need to take on this account. Weve noticed that you havent set up a payment plan yet 
which means your card has now been suspended. Weve done this to help you with your 
repayments and prevent you from increasing your balance further. So Im satisfied that 
Tesco made it clear that Mr S card was suspended due to persistent debt.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr S has that his statements didnt show that he was in 
persistent debt and that they didnt show his card was suspended, but there is no 
requirement for Tesco to document this on his statements as they had kept him fully 
informed about this via the letters they sent him, so Mr S shouldve been reasonably aware 
that his card was suspended.Ive considered what Mr S has said about his credit card statements showing that he had 
£1,500 available. While the credit card statement doesnt show the word available, it does 
show that he had a £1,500 total credit limit. This is because only his card was suspended. If 
they had removed his credit limit when the card was suspended, then he could have incurred 
charges when his interest was charged to the account if he had no credit limit, so Im not 
persuaded that Tesco have made an error by showing his total credit limit when it was his 
card which was suspended.
I can see that Mr S made a payment on 19 April 2023. This left his account in credit. He tried 
to pay for the rental car only a couple of days later. So Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of his account to see what this says about being able to use the card after he was 
considered to be in persistent debt. These show that We can lift the suspension on your 
card once youve paid off your balance. Before we do this: well do an affordability check to 
see if you can afford the card repayments; if we think you can afford your card, well let you 
know what credit limit were prepared to give you. This limit may be lower than your credit 
limit. 
The terms also go on to show that In certain circumstances we wont lift the suspension on 
your card, and it goes on to list certain incidents where they wont do this. So Im not 
persuaded that Tesco set an expectation for Mr S that once he had cleared the balance on 
the card that he would be immediately able to use this again. I say this because the terms 
make it clear that in some instances they wont lift the suspension on the card, so it isnt a 
guarantee that they would lift the suspension. 
But even if Tesco choose to lift the suspension, the terms clearly show that before they do 
this theyll conduct an affordability check. So as the terms dont state the suspension of the 
card would be immediately lifted once the balance is repaid or give an indication of how long 
this could take, then I cant say Tesco made an error here, and therefore I cant say it is 
proportionate for Tesco to pay Mr S for the loss of the car rental, work, and travel expenses.
The terms also show that before they lift the suspension on the card, theyll let Mr S know 
the limit they are prepared to give him. They set out in the terms that this limit may be lower 
than your credit limit. This is what happened here. Tesco lowered his credit limit. They are 
entitled to do this based on the terms of the account, so I wont be asking them to increase 
this back to the higher credit limit. 
But when Mr S phoned Tesco after he was unable to pay for his car rental, I can see there 
was confusion about timescales given for when the card could be reactivated as he was told 
it would be 72 hours from his cycle date, instead of his actual cycle (statement) date. 
Although the correct information meant Mr S card would be activated sooner, it would still be 
frustrating for Mr S to find out he was told incorrect information. He had asked to speak to a 
manager, but none were available, which would be upsetting for him at a time he was 
frustrated with his card being suspended even though he was now in credit on the account. I 
do note a call back was offered, but it was rejected as Mr S wanted someone to rectify his 
concerns sooner. 
Tescos final response email shows that they were crediting his bank account with £25 in 
recognition of the service issues on this call. Im satisfied that this is in line with our awards 
for what happened here. So it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman