DRN-3043274
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed her account, sold the 
debt to a debt collection company and placed adverse information on her credit file. She 
wants her credit file amended. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt disputed that Miss Cs account was overdrawn.
Miss C says she did not get any correspondence from Halifax saying they were going 
to close her account, refer it to a debt collection company or register a default on her 
credit file. 
But Halifax has shown that it sent a number of communications to Miss C in July, 
August and September 2020. Amongst other things they said the account was over 
its limit and was being passed to its collections team. They also said a payment was 
required failing which the account may be closed and a default recorded.
I think Halifax acted reasonably and clearly set out the position and consequences of 
a payment not being received in these communications. And although Miss C says 
she did not receive them I am satisfied, on balance, that Halifax sent them to the 
correct addresses it had registered for Miss C.
I do not think Halifax acted unfairly or incorrectly by closing the account and selling 
the debt to a debt collection company. And I think it was also entitled to register the 
default on Miss Cs credit file as it accurately reflected the conduct of her account. 
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Miss Cs frustration, I do not 
think I can fairly or reasonably require Halifax to amend her credit file, including 
removing the recorded default, as she would like. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman