DRN-3830258
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) will not offer the option to 
move her late husbands pension fund into a dependents flexi access drawdown account 
rather than making a lump sum payment directly to her. Mrs C has stated that this will result 
in future tax disadvantages and that the requested flexi access drawdown account was 
previously confirmed by Utmost as being an available option. 
An additional complaint point surrounding the delays suffered in receiving information from 
Utmost was also registered with both Utmost themselves and this service.
What happened
On 10 July 2019 there was a call between the late Mr Cs financial adviser and Utmost. 
Forms were requested that would allow Mr C to nominate beneficiaries to his pension and in 
addition the adviser asked whether the monies within the pension could be moved to another 
pension in the event of Mr Cs death.
The call handler stated that the normal process was for the funds to be paid out as a cash 
lump sum. The adviser queried further, stating that he was aware that a move to another 
pension was permissible by law but wondered whether this was something that Utmost 
would offer. The call handler then explained that the monies could not be paid directly into a 
pension, but there was the option to transfer to a flexi access drawdown (FAD) account with 
another provider or purchase an annuity. 
The beneficiary nomination forms were returned to Utmost on 14 July 2019. The form was 
entitled The Equitable Personal Pension Plan / Free Standing AVC / Dependants Drawdown 
Nomination of Beneficiaries of Death Benefits form. This indicated Mr C wished to leave 98% 
of the fund to Mrs C and 1% to each of their children. The declaration signed by Mr C when 
completing this form stated that I understand that the expression of this wish is no way 
binding on the administrator.
Receipt of this form was confirmed in writing by Utmost on 18 July 2019. Within this 
confirmation Utmost again confirmed that despite any instructions given on the nomination 
form, it was they who would retain discretion over who would receive the funds upon Mr Cs 
death. 
Sadly, on 23 July 2019 Mr C passed away. 
In February 2020 the grant of probate was issued and in August 2020 Utmost were informed 
of Mr Cs death. Later in August 2020, through her adviser  the same adviser as Mr C - 
Mrs C asked Utmost for her options regarding the policy. 
In September 2020 Utmost requested the completion of a Family Information Form. The 
covering letter to this form confirmed the policy value and explained that the lump sum death 
benefit would be paid at Utmosts discretion, with the information form used to assist Utmost 
in deciding who should receive the payment. 
This information form was returned to Utmost in March 2021. 
On 12 April 2021 Utmost wrote to Mrs C and her adviser separately to confirm that they had 
concluded the monies within the pension should be paid to Mrs C. The forms to facilitate 
payment of a lump sum to Mrs C, or the commencement of an annuity, were also provided at 
this time. Within the letter to the adviser Utmost stated that the option of beneficiary 
drawdown was not available due to the policys terms and conditions. 
Mrs C wrote to Utmost on 18 April 2021 to provide the identification documents that had 
been requested and stated that she did not want either a lump sum payment or an annuity 
and requested that Utmost forward the relevant documentation to allow the monies to be 
moved into a beneficiary drawdown plan.
After a conversation with Utmost on 20 April 2021 where it was confirmed that beneficiary 
drawdown was not available, Mrs Cs adviser registered a complaint on her behalf. This 
complaint explained that dependents drawdown would be more tax efficient, noted that this 
had previously been possible, and said that the wording of the nomination form completed in 
2019 suggested that this was possible. In addition, the complaint referenced part of the 
Pension Freedoms legislation entitled Statutory Permissive Override which they stated 
would seem to allow Utmost to grant Mrs Cs request.
Utmost issued their response on 1 June which did not uphold the complaint referencing the 
fact that the policy terms and conditions do not allow drawdown. The issue was referred to 
this service in July and our investigator looked into things. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.
With regard to the issue around delays in receiving information from Utmost the investigator 
noted that whilst there had been two occasions where it took Utmost several weeks to send 
letters, the majority of the delays to the above process occurred during the times where 
information was outstanding from Mrs C and / or her adviser. As such the investigator 
concluded that, overall, Utmost had acted reasonably when providing information during the 
claims process.
In relation to the options offered to Mrs C for the pension benefits, the investigator explained 
that flexible drawdown only became an option for pensions after pension freedoms 
legislation became active in 2015. This legislation was forward looking with no requirement 
for businesses to offer such freedoms on policies which commenced before this date. As 
Mr Cs pension had commenced before 2015 there was no requirement for Utmost to offer 
flexible drawdown as an option, with the investigator concluding that Utmost had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
In addition, whilst the Statutory Permissive Override did give businesses the option to offer 
features such as flexible drawdown on older policies, this was only an option given to 
businesses and did not in any way force them to offer such flexibilities on their older policies. 
Whether a business chose to do so or not was left to each individual business to decide. 
In response to the findings issued Mrs C, through her adviser, noted that during the call with 
Utmost on 10 July 2019 Utmost themselves had confirmed that a transfer to another provider 
to facilitate dependent drawdown was possible. Given this they requested the findings be 
reconsidered.
The investigator was not minded to change the findings issued, stating that whilst they did 
not have access to the call on 10 July 2019, the content of this would not impact the 
outcome of the review as it was a business decision on Utmosts part as to whether they chose to offer dependents drawdown as an option. 
As Mrs C and her adviser did not agree and the case was passed to me. In October 2022 I 
issued my provision decision and explained why I agreed with the findings issued by our 
investigator and was not minded to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
My provisional decision stated:
Dealing firstly with the delays Mrs C and her adviser suffered in receiving information from 
Utmost during the claims process above, I accept that there were occasions when letters 
could have been sent by Utmost in a more timely manner, especially when dealing with a 
bereavement. However, the main delays to the process were in providing Utmost with the 
grant of probate in August 2020 and in the completion of the Family Information Form in 
March 2021. As these time periods caused the bulk of the delay to the overall process, and 
were not the result of any error or omission on Utmosts part, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and concluded that, overall, Utmost acted reasonably when 
providing documentation during the claims process. 
Moving on to the issue around the options offered to Mrs C for the pension monies, I have 
given first consideration to the terms and conditions of the policy in question. 
The only section of the terms and conditions of the policy which is relevant to this issue is 
the section which explains what will occur in the event of the policy holders death. This 
section confirms that Benefits secured by a With-Profits segment or a Unit-Linked segment 
shall be payable on Vesting date or on the date of death of the Life Assured.
The actual start date of the policy is not evidenced on file; however, no party thus far has 
suggested it commenced after the new Pension Freedom legislation came into effect in April 
2015. Given it has been accepted the policy commenced before flexible drawdown became 
an option in retirement, it is not surprising that the policy terms and conditions document 
makes no mention of flexible drawdown at all. 
As explained by the investigator, the options that were made possible by the introduction of 
the pension freedoms legislation were not automatically granted to the holders of policies 
which commenced before that date. Mr Cs policy did not contain such an option at 
commencement, with the decision as to whether this should subsequently be offered one for 
Utmost to make. 
Utmost may have at times offered some of the options now requested by Mrs C, however, 
they are entitled to revisit their product offerings in line with their product terms and 
conditions as they see fit. The fact that at one time or another Utmost offered options that 
Mrs C would now prefer does not mean Utmost are now required to offer such options once 
again.
Regarding the Statutory Permissive Override, details of this can be found in the Finance Act 
2004 s273B. This allows payments of a drawdown pension for members, dependants, 
nominees and successors, along with other pension freedom payments and means any 
money purchase (defined contribution) pension scheme can designate funds to drawdown 
for the benefit of a members beneficiaries upon their death, regardless of what is written in 
the scheme rules. If the existing scheme does not have the functionality to actually make the 
required payments then the Statutory Permissive Override allows the scheme to designate 
the fund appropriately and then make a like-for-like drawdown transfer to another scheme or 
provider that can facilitate the payments.
However, whilst this does give businesses the ability to provide options such as the dependents drawdown Mrs C requested, it does not mandate them to do so. Whether to do 
so or not remains a decision for each individual business to make, with this decision-making 
process not something that this service would look to interfere with as long as a business is 
acting in a fair and reasonable manner. 
I have considered carefully the fact that the content of the 10 July 2019 call between Mrs Cs 
adviser and Utmost does clearly contradict what Utmost have subsequently said regarding 
the options available on the policy in question. Whilst Utmost have stated they no longer 
have a copy of this call, Mrs Cs adviser has been able to provide a recording with the call 
handler in question clearly stating there would be an option to transfer to another provider in 
the event of Mr Cs death. 
Mrs C and her adviser have stated that given it was confirmed that options other than a lump 
sum payment or an annuity were available on this call, Utmost should now stand by the 
content of the call and provide Mrs C with her preferred option for the pension funds. 
Unfortunately, I do not agree. Utmost have made an error in providing Mrs C  through her 
adviser  with the incorrect information regarding the late Mr Cs pension policy. However in 
cases where businesses have given incorrect information to their consumers, it is not this 
services usual stance to make a business stand by that incorrect information, rather I would 
expect the business to provide the correct information as soon as possible and mitigate any 
potential customer detriment. 
I fully accept that Utmost did give incorrect information to Mrs C, however I do not believe 
Mrs Cs ultimate circumstances have been impacted. Had the correct information been given 
on 10 July 2019 stating that the only options available on the policy were an annuity or lump 
sum payment, there is no evidence to support the idea that Mrs C would have ended up 
position different to the one she ultimately found herself in. 
Given this I do not propose to uphold this complaint.
In my provision decision I asked both Mrs C and Utmost to provide any further commentary 
or evidence they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the issuance of my provisional decision Mrs C has not provided any additional 
evidence or commentary. Utmost have confirmed that they have no further comments they 
wish to add other than to confirm that the pension policy in question was purchased on 3 
November 1994. 
As such I have concluded the provisional decision issued provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the issues at hand and as such, I am not making any changes to it.
My final decision
In line with the commentary included above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 John Rogowski
Ombudsman