DRN-3169063
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 1996. Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought HSBCs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr J paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. Ill explain why. 
HSBC hasnt been able to confirm how it sold Mr J the PPI and Mr J says he completed 
a form. HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form Mr J completed 
at the time of sale. This is unfortunate, but unsurprising given how long ago the sale took 
place. So, Ive considered Mr Js comments alongside what we know in general about 
how HSBC sold credit card PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. Based on what we know sold I wouldve expected Mr J to have had to 
complete some paperwork at the time, and this is likely to have reflected any discussions 
he may have had with a HSBC representative. I also wouldve expected Mr J to have 
had an opportunity to ask any questions if he was unsure about taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr J knew the policy was 
optional he to take it out without undue pressure.
Ive looked at Mr Js complaint on the basis HSBC recommended the PPI to him. I have 
done this as this places a higher level of responsibility on HSBC, and in the absence of 
any other information this seems to me to be the fairest approach. This means HSBC 
had to check that the PPI was right for Mr J. The evidence about Mr Js circumstances at 
the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example Mr J was eligible for the cover and although he was entitled to employee 
benefits, which included sick pay and redundancy pay, he still seemed to have had a 
need for cover. I say this because the PPI wouldve paid out alongside these benefits.
There was nothing about Mr Js employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr J also hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr J as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the 
information he was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr J 
would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr J would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Js particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr J about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
HSBC didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Js representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr J should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: HSBC failed to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr J wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr J in order to remedy the unfairness caused by HSBC not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Js representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr J paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr J with 
the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if HSBC had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Js complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should pay Mr J an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman