DRN-3649878
The complaint
Mr C complains about the level of service hes received from Scottish Widows Schroder 
Personal Wealth Limited (SPW). Hes unhappy with how his accounts have been managed 
and how hes been treated by some of their staff.
What happened
Mr C received investment advice from an adviser in 2017 and 2018. At the time, the adviser 
worked for a business that I shall call B1. The adviser moved to SPW (a joint venture 
between B1 and Schroders) in June 2019 and in September 2019 some of Mr Cs 
investments were moved to Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth (ACD) Limited 
(SPWACD) which is a separate legal entity to SPW.
Mr C complained to SPW in 2022 and raised several issues, including the lack of ongoing 
advice and the poor service hed received. SPW didnt resolve the complaint to Mr Cs 
satisfaction, so he asked us to look into it. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt think it should be upheld.
The investigator thought, in summary:
There was no evidence to suggest that the adviser had ever provided Mr C with an 
ongoing service. Instead, it appeared that he provided Mr C with ad-hoc advice as 
and when it was required. Therefore, there was no responsibility for the adviser to 
monitor, advise or provide Mr C with any services.
She appreciated that the adviser had kept in touch with Mr C after the meetings they 
had in 2017 and 2018 but there wasnt formal arrangement in place that Mr C was 
paying for. Therefore, when the adviser joined SPW, management of Mr Cs portfolio 
didnt move to their organisation.
Mr Cs investments were held by SPWACD and any complaints about issues with his 
investments should be directed to them.
Mr C didnt agree with her findings. He thought hed been misled and explained that the 
adviser had told him that he did not need a personal wealth advisor because he would 
continue to look after the accounts. And the adviser had continued to contact him after hed 
moved to SPW. He also thought the investigator hadnt properly investigated how hed been 
treated by SPW staff.
The investigator considered what Mr C had said but wasnt persuaded to change her 
opinion. As there was no agreement the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and while I appreciate it will disappoint Mr C, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. I will now explain why.
I would firstly like to say that I cannot consider the advisers actions while he was working for 
B1 in this complaint. Mr C needs to raise a complaint against B1 for that matter to be 
investigated. I also cant consider any complaint points relating to how Mr Cs investments 
were managed, as they are held by SPWACD. However, I have considered the actions of 
the adviser while he was working for SPW.
Mr C had a call with the adviser in July 2020. At this time the adviser was working for SPW, 
and I can see that he had a discussion with Mr C. They spoke about the wider financial 
climate due to the ongoing pandemic and Mr Cs financial situation at the time. The adviser 
also discussed how he interacted with Mr C - he said that the nature of their relationship was 
that Mr C would email him and then they would arrange a meeting to discuss Mr Cs 
finances. 
He then discussed a potential option where there would be a more formal agreement where 
there would be a dedicated support team and Mr C would be guaranteed at least one full 
review each year. He explained that Mr C would potentially benefit from access to a wealth 
platform and ongoing advice. Mr C asked the adviser to send him information about the new 
option and hed review it and get back to the adviser.
I think this demonstrates that Mr C was receiving ad-hoc advice from the adviser and there 
wasnt an ongoing relationship. Therefore, I dont think there any responsibility for the 
adviser to proactively contact Mr C and explain that he was moving roles. But, I think the 
adviser could have been clearer about the difference between SPW - who he worked for - 
and SPWACD who held Mr Cs investments. I think it wouldnt have been evident from the 
discussion that there was any difference between the two entities.
Mr C contacted the adviser in January 2022 to arrange a review meeting. The adviser 
explained that he was moving roles and arranged for another adviser to get in touch with Mr 
C. Unfortunately, at the time the other adviser wasnt working due to personal 
circumstances, and no-one got in touch with Mr C. This resulted in Mr C having to complain 
and during that process he was unhappy with how he was treated on the phone by an 
employee of SPW. 
SPW have accepted that they could have communicated with Mr C better and that someone 
should have picked up the request to have the review meeting. They have apologised and 
offered him a free initial advice meeting, a bottle of wine and provided feedback to their staff. 
Taking everything into account, while I think SPW have provided Mr C with a poor level of 
service, I think the compensation theyve offered and the actions theyve taken are fair and 
reasonable and I wont be asking them to do anything else to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman