DRN-3752106
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Ms C and Mr C hold jointly with 
Barclays Bank (UK) PLC. It was due for repayment in May 2022, and Barclays has turned 
down their request for a term extension. Ms C and Mr C thinks thats unfair and a breach of 
mortgage regulations.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms C and Mr C and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Ms C and Mr C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage started in 2006, as a capital repayment mortgage over a 25-year term; in 
2007, the mortgage was changed to interest-only over a 15-year term meaning it would fall 
due for repayment in May 2022. In 2016, Ms C and Mr C complained about this change, and 
Barclays addressed the complaint in a final response in September 2016. 
In early 2022, with the mortgage term approaching, Ms C and Mr C complained again about 
the mortgage change in 2007, describing it as a mis-sale. Barclays thought the complaint 
was time-barred because it had been raised outside the time-limits in our rules. It also 
referred Ms C and Mr C back to its final response from 2016, and said it had nothing to add 
to that.
Ms C and Mr C referred their complaint to us; meantime, theyd applied for a term extension, 
which Barclays had declined on the grounds of affordability. Whilst the case has been with 
us, the mortgage term has expired. Barclays has notified Ms C and Mr C of the remedies 
available to it if they dont repay, but for the moment, hasnt sought to enforce those 
remedies. In the meantime, Ms C and Mr C are making the monthly payments of interest, 
plus additional amounts to reduce the capital. 
Our investigator explained that the time limits in our rules didnt allow us to consider the 
circumstances in which the mortgage was changed to interest-only and the term shortened. 
All we could do was consider whether Barclays had treated Ms C and Mr C fairly when it 
considered, and rejected, their application for a term extension. He didnt think it had; Ms C 
and Mr C have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Ms C and Mr C borrowed money from Barclays, and under the 
term of their agreement with Barclays, were due to repay the money when it fell due for 
repayment. As I have no remit to consider the circumstances in which the mortgage term 
was shortened, I can only proceed on the basis that the debt was due for repayment in 
May 2022.
I dont think Ms C and Mr C had assumed that extending their interest-only mortgage was 
something to which they were entitled. However, I think they may have assumed it was 
something that would be done as a remedy to what they saw as the wrongful shortening of 
the term in 2007. If thats the case, then I have some disappointing news for them.
Ms C and Mr C talked of having been misled by people at the bank who had said extending 
(or as they saw it, restoring) the term was a formality. Nothing in the evidence Ive seen from 
either party corroborates that, but I have seen the letters Barclays sent them from time to 
time, as the term end got ever nearer. A particular example was the one dated 
2 November 2020, which I consider made it very clear to Ms C and Mr C that they were 
expected to repay the debt when it fell due on term end.
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
Ms C and Mr C have argued that their payment history is impeccable and their financial 
position going forward is strong. However, the judgement on whether to grant the term 
extension was Barclays to make, not Ms C and Mr Cs, and not mine either. 
Barclays was concerned to see the most recent set of accounts for the limited company of 
which Mr C is a director has posted a significant loss; it concluded from this that extending 
the term of the mortgage wasnt affordable. That was Barclays judgement to make, based 
on its lending criteria, and theres no reasonable basis for me to second-guess that 
judgement by substituting my own view on whether, to whom, and how much Barclays 
should lend.
Barclays did ask for more up to date information, specifically draft accounts for 2022, three 
most recent months business bank statements and a tax year overview for 2021. At the 
point the case was referred to us, Barclays hadnt received that information, and so wasnt in 
a position to change its mind. Ms C and Mr C have said the company didnt wish to give that 
information to Barclays, and that it wouldnt have helped in any event due to the way the 
company is financed. However, that would have been for Barclays to judge, once it had seen 
the information.Ms C and Mr C dispute the investigators finding that Barclays considered their options, 
citing Barclays letter of 15 March 2022 as evidence it refused to consider the merits of their 
case. I think they are conflating two separate things here; the complaint about the change of 
mortgage in 2007 and the request for a term extension. The letter of 15 March 2022 dealt 
with the former, and whilst it referenced the latter, that was merely for context and to remind 
Ms C and Mr C that they needed to explore options for repaying the mortgage.
Ms C and Mr C say theres been no conversation about how the capital will be repaid. That 
may be true, but Barclays has written more than once remind them of the need for a strategy 
to repay the mortgage, including the aforementioned letter from November 2020. Also, 
theyd have received such a reminder on all of the annual statements they received over the 
years theyve had the mortgage.
Ms C and Mr C have listed various strategy options they have for repaying the mortgage; 
these include:
extending the mortgage for eighteen years and making capital reductions;
savings; they already have around one third of the debt on deposit;
selling some or all of Mr Cs shareholding in his company when he is allowed to;
downsizing when they retire and no longer need a house that size; and
an inheritance following the death of Mr Cs parents, if all else failed.
The difficulty with all of those strategies is that they are predicated on the assumption that a 
term extension will be granted. None of them indicate that Ms and Mr C made any provision 
for repaying the mortgage when it fell due this year. Theyre also highly speculative as to 
timing in themselves; Im not sure how viable Barclays would be required to treat any of 
these alternative strategies, based on the regulations as they currently stand.
Barclays has said it will consider a fresh request, based on further and newer information 
about Ms C and Mr Cs financial affairs as they are now. Its fair and reasonable that 
Barclays give Ms C and Mr C another opportunity to satisfy it that a term extension is 
affordable. But to be clear, nothing I say here obliges Barclays to agree to an extension, and 
nothing of that nature should be inferred.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Ms C and Mr C. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they are here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that Barclays has treated Ms C and Mr C 
unfairly. 
Ms C and Mr C dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Ms C and Mr Cs right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman