DRN-1232946
complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 1999 alongside a credit card. Miss B, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. She says she didnt need the PPI and 
wasnt given enough information about it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI but in any event 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. 
From what Ive seen about the card application process, I think Miss B made a 
decision to take out the policy. Ive seen that on her application form a box was 
marked with an X to show shed chosen PPI. So I think she would have had the 
opportunity to review her application and discuss it with the BoS representative 
before making the decision to buy the policy and signing the application form. I see 
that she also chose when shed like to pay her PPI premiums, which further shows 
she gave some thought to how shed pay for the policy each month. 
 
I think BoS recommended the PPI to Miss B at a meeting in branch  even though 
Miss B isnt so sure about this - so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I 
say this given that it would pay out for 12 months and in addition to the existing 
benefits she was receiving from her employer if she was unable to work, which was 6 
months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. The PPI would also pay out if 
she lost her job. So Miss B wouldnt have to rely on other potential sources of 
funding, such as her savings, to help out. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And although Ive thought about the points 
made by those representing Miss B in response to our adjudicators opinion, they dont affect 
my decision. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Miss B paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Miss B back some of the cost of the PPI. And from what Ive seen, it looks as if BoS has 
already paid this to Miss B. So I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman