DRN-3346408
The complaint
Mr J and Miss F are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr J and Miss F booked to on a holiday abroad, with members of their family. 
The trip was due to take place in July 2020  with them departing on 9 July and returning a 
week later.
The plan for the holiday was for Mr J, Miss F and their family to share a villa. So, one was 
booked  with the cost being split between the parties going on the trip. This meant Mr J and 
Miss F paid £708 for accommodation, as well as for the flights to their intended destination.
Unfortunately, they later received notification from their airline provider that the flights they 
were due to take with it were cancelled. And they were provided with a refund for these. But 
Mr J and Miss F said this meant they werent able to go on their holiday as planned.
Theyve noted that attempts were made to get a refund of the £708 they paid towards 
accommodation. But this wasnt successful. So, having a travel insurance policy, they 
decided to make a claim under the policy for their loss.
Astrenska, their insurer, looked into Mr J and Miss Fs claim and declined it. It said that the 
situation they were claiming for wasnt covered by their insurance policy. Astrenska said for 
the loss to be covered, the reason for the cancellation had to be listed as covered within their 
policy booklet. But it wasnt. So, it wasnt willing to settle the claim made.
Mr J and Miss F didnt feel this was fair. They noted that the holiday was cancelled as a 
result of the pandemic. And they said that from their reading on their policy, there was cover 
in place for cancellation due to government advice not to travel. Mr J and Miss F said they 
hadnt travelled due to the impact of government restrictions at the time. 
Astrenska didnt agree. It said the reason Mr J and Miss F couldnt go on holiday was 
because their flights were cancelled. And this wasnt a reason listed as covered within the 
policy. It noted that Mr J and Miss F were due to go abroad on 9 July 2020, but a few days 
prior to that, the area Mr J and Miss F lived in lifted restrictions on movement. And, the 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO formerly FCO), had also lifted 
restrictions on travelling to their intended destination. So, they could have gone on holiday.
Mr J and Miss F didnt agree. As they remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to 
this service for an independent review. When coming to this service Mr J and Miss F said 
they werent able to travel to their destination, because their flights were cancelled, and there 
were no other flights they could take, within their area. They also noted they werent able to 
travel further afield at the time, because of stay local advice stopping them from travelling to 
airports further away.
Our investigator considered Mr J and Miss Fs complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She said:
Mr J and Miss Fs flights were cancelled at a time when the government were 
advising against all but essential travel abroad. And Mr J and Miss Fs policy did 
provide cover for cancellation due to a government directive prohibiting travel abroad. 
So, the policy did provide cover for the situation Mr J and Miss F found themselves in 
at the point the flights were cancelled.
Government restrictions prohibiting travel abroad did lift before Mr J and Miss F were 
due to go on holiday. With the government advice restricting travel to their intended 
lifting on 4 July 2020, and restrictions mandating a stay local approach being lifted 
on 6 July 2020, three days before Mr J and Miss Fs holiday. But, the original reason 
for the flights being cancelled was as above. And, it wasnt reasonable to expect Mr J 
and Miss F to source alternative flights further away (and in England, not Wales), as 
well as travel to the airport, along with their other family members, within these three 
days.
So, she felt it was fair and reasonable for Astrenska to pay Mr J and Miss Fs claim.
Mr J and Miss F agreed with our investigators opinion. But Astrenska didnt agree. In 
summary, it said Mr J and Miss Fs holiday didnt go ahead because of their specific flights 
being cancelled. And not because of anything covered by the policy. It reiterated that there 
were no restrictions on Mr J and Miss F travelling when they were due to depart. And so, 
there was no cover under the part of the policy covering this. 
Because Astrenska didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained by reasoning for this 
below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether Astrenska, in declining to provide Mr J and Miss F with settlement for their 
accommodation, did so fairly. And I dont think it did. 
Ive reviewed Mr J and Miss Fs policy documents, which detail the terms and conditions of 
their policy. And as is usual with insurance policies of this nature, I can see the policy 
provides Mr J and Miss F with cover for the cancellation of their trip, if the cancellation was 
due to one of the events listed in the policy booklet. There are a number of events listed as 
covered, such a cancellation in certain circumstances, including cancellation due to:
a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were planning to visit, 
as a result of a natural disaster (e.g earthquake, fire, floor, hurricane or epidemic).
With this in mind, Im aware that if Mr J and Miss Fs trip was cancelled due to the above, a 
claim for their loss would be covered. 
Ive seen emails from Mr J and Miss Fs airline provider. On 14 June, Mr J and Miss F were 
told that because of the impact of Covid-19, their flights were cancelled, and flight credit was available to them. As Mr J and Miss F had no flights in order to travel to their villa from that 
point, Im satisfied their holiday was cancelled. And it was cancelled as a direct result of the 
government prohibitions the policy details as covered. So, at this point, Im satisfied Mr J and 
Miss F had an acceptable claim under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Astrenska has highlighted that the situation changed after the flights were cancelled. It has 
said that on 4 July 2020, government restrictions to Mr J and Miss Fs intended destination 
was lifted  with the implementation of travel corridors. So, Mr J and Miss F were able to 
travel. Theyd just need to book other flights, and theyd be able to attend the villa, as theyd 
planned to.
I do appreciate that the travel corridor meant there was no longer a prohibition on travel to 
Mr J and Miss Fs intended destination. But Im also satisfied the lifting of these restrictions 
came too late for Mr J and Miss F. Their holiday had already been cancelled (because the 
flights were cancelled), as a result of government prohibitions due to the Coronavirus 
pandemic. And there were further complications resulting from the government prohibitions 
around epidemics, which meant Mr J and Miss F werent able to travel on holiday, as 
planned.
Mr J and Miss Fs local area was subject to different rules to other parts of the UK. Up until 6 
July 2020, Mr J and Miss Fs local area was subject to a stay local rule. This meant Mr J 
and Miss F werent able to travel a distance further than five miles from their home. 
So, whilst the travel corridor arrangement was in place from 4 July 2020, Mr J and Miss F 
werent able to make any alternative arrangements to travel, until 6 July 2020. This was then 
only three days before their villa booking was due to start. This left a very short amount of 
time to make alternative arrangements to resume their trip. Ive seen that the airport they 
were originally due to fly from didnt have flights to their intended destination. And I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Mr J and Miss F to arrange alternative flights, from a 
neighbouring UK country. If Mr J and Miss F were able to find an alternative flight, which we 
dont know would have been possible, they would then need to arrange travel, and perhaps 
accommodation at the new airport. I dont think it would be fair to expect Mr J and Miss F to 
go to these lengths, and ultimately change their initial trip plans, in order to make use of the 
villa.
So, whilst I appreciate government prohibitions may have been lifted on 6 July 2020, the 
impact of the government prohibitions had already irrevocably impacted Mr J and Miss Fs 
holiday. It was the cause of the flight cancellation. And given this, I consider if fair and 
reasonable for Astrenska to settle Mr J and Miss Fs claim, in line with the remaining terms 
of the policy. 
As is usual in situations such as this, Astrenska should also pay Mr J and Miss F an amount 
of 8% interest on this amount, from the date of loss, to date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr J and Miss Fs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Astrenska should also pay Mr J and Miss F an amount of 8% interest on this amount, 
from the date of loss, to date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customs requires Astrenska to deduct tax from this interest, Astrenska 
should give Mr J and Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they 
ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman