DRN-3290232
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited stopped paying his claim.
What happened
Mr H had an income protection policy through his employer that was underwritten by Aviva. 
Mr H had surgery on his left wrist in December 2017. Following this he had persistent 
swelling over the area of the operation which restricted his wrist functionality and forearm 
rotation. This meant he was unable to work in his role as a welder. Mr H said his 
employment went on to be terminated due to ill health on 28 June 2019.
Mr H made a claim on his income protection policy for ganglion which was accepted by 
Aviva in February 2018. But in June 2018 Aviva stopped paying the benefit under this 
because they said they had noted Mr Hs sicknotes now mentioned a heart condition aside 
from the original issue with his wrist. So, it stopped payments and reviewed his medical 
records. Aviva said Mr H hadnt visited his doctor for the original condition, ganglion for 
months, so it concluded it remained fair for them to have stopped paying a benefit. 
Aviva noted Mr H had suffered a heart attack in 2018 and felt this would be the reason he 
remained unable to work. Aviva said a heart condition would usually be considered as a new 
claim. However, the policy had been renewed by Mr Hs employer in May 2018 and it 
excluded cover for anyone over the age of 66. So, Mr H wasnt entitled to make a new claim. 
Aviva also pointed out Mr Hs entitlement under the policy ends at the termination of his 
employment and it was unclear when this was. 
Mr H said Aviva treated him unfairly by stopping his claim as the reason for his absence 
didnt change - it was his wrist problems that prevented his from working.  Mr H said there 
was a mistake on his sick notes and had this amended. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He asked Aviva for a copy of the medical 
records theyd reviewed before stopping the benefit, but due to issues during lockdown they 
were unable to provide this. Instead, Aviva arranged for an independent medical 
examination (IME) which took place in August 2021. 
The available medical evidence persuaded our investigator that Mr Hs wrist issues were 
ongoing, and it was reasonable to conclude these wouldve prevented him from working as a 
welder. So, he felt Aviva was unfair to have stopped paying the claim. 
He also said Mr H originally made the claim in February 2018, which was before his 66th 
birthday, so the age limits wouldnt apply in his case. And he confirmed Mr H said his 
employment wasnt terminated until 28 June 2019. So he recommended Aviva backdate the 
benefit payments from when they stopped, up until the 52 week entitlement set out on the 
schedule had expired. He also clarified Aviva should pay 8% simple interest on that amount, 
from the date it was owed until the date of settlement.
Aviva didnt agree. In summary they said: 
The reason the claim, for the ganglion and associated sickness, was stopped was 
because the sickness certificates provided no longer mentioned it.
Each claim, for individual illnesses, would need appropriate certificates for that 
condition. Without appropriate certificates Aviva cannot pay a claim.
They were confused by the 2019 date given for when Mr Hs employment was 
terminated because it was different to the four-year timescale he told the IME in 
2021. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility not to avoid claims 
or terminate them unfairly. Having reviewed everything, I dont think Aviva acted fairly in this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Aviva still hasnt provided us with the doctors certificates they relied on to decline the claim. 
But Im persuaded by the evidence provided in Mr Hs doctor letter of June 2019 and IME 
report from August 2021 - the IME confirms it had sight of Mr Hs medial history so Ive given 
this evidence considerable weight in the absence of seeing these reports myself. 
The letter from Mr Hs doctor says he had surgery on his left wrist in December 2017. 
Following this he suffered from persistent swelling over the area of the operation. This 
restricted his wrist flexion and forearm rotation, so he was signed off work. Mr Hs doctor 
says he was regularly reviewed by the orthopaedic clinic and the IME has confirmed the 
following notes from these sessions: 
16 February 2018 - his forearm rotators were restricted and an X-ray revealed 
osteoarthritis of his distal radio-ulnar joint of his wrist. 
29 March 2018 he had ongoing pain and an X-ray revealed osteoarthritis of his distal 
radio-ulnar joint and arthritis in the joint of his wrist. 
19 October 2018  ongoing tenosynovitis of his left wrist and shoulder pain 
11 Jan 2019 osteoarthritis of his distal radio-ulnar joint, arthritis in the joint of his wrist. 
Recurrent ganglion and left shoulder adhesive capsulitis. 
18 February 2019 tenosynovitis of his left wrist and swelling recurred and ongoing pain 
of his distal radio-ulnar joint
The GP has also confirmed further detail within this timeline:
 
in August 2018, at another Orthopaedic follow-up clinic, the swelling in his wrist had 
recurred and again multiloculated cystic swellings in this area. Instead of having further 
radiosynovectomy, he then returned for drainage of the swellings under aseptic precautions 
which were carried out in October 2018. Taking all the above entries into account, I think its unreasonable for Aviva to conclude the 
reason for Mr Hs absence was no longer caused by the continued swelling and discomfort 
in his wrist. 
The policy schedule and terms state Aviva will pay the sum insured for sickness which 
results in the temporary total disablement of the insured.
Temporary Total Disablement is defined as: 
Disablement which entirely prevents the Insured Person from engaging in or attending to 
their usual occupational duties.
The IME confirms Mr H still has ongoing symptoms with his left wrist and experiences pain 
throughout the use of it. Given the nature of Mr Hs work as a welder, I think it is reasonable 
to conclude having repeated wrist pain and restricted movement would have an impact on 
his functional ability to perform his usual occupational duties. So, I dont think the medical 
evidence showed Mr H no longer met the requirements for cover. 
Aviva have questioned the 2019 date given for when Mr Hs employment was terminated. 
This is reasonable given it is different to the four year timescale Mr H reported to the IME in 
2021. So, Ive carefully reviewed the letters from Mr Hs employer and Im persuaded his 
employment was terminated on ill health grounds in June 2019, following a meeting on 2 
April 2019. 
I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to terminate this claim based on the available 
medical evidence Ive seen. Although Mr H suffered a heart attack during his period of 
absence, Im persuaded the issues with his wrist remained the reason he was unable to 
work. As Mr H was at an eligible age and still in his employment at the time of his initial claim 
for swelling of his wrist Im satisfied this claim should be paid for the duration of the 52 
weeks set out in the schedule of insurance.
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by: 
Backdating the benefit payments from when they stopped, up until the 52 week 
entitlement set out on the schedule had expired. 
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount, from the date it was owed until the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and direct them to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman