DRN-3318130
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service received by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). He 
says Halifax delayed the transfer of his cash ISA to a third party and this led to him incurring 
investment losses. 
What happened
Mr G held a cash ISA with Halifax. On 22 February 2021 Mr G requested the total balance of 
the cash ISA be transferred to a third party and into a stocks and shares ISA held by it. 
Halifax says it transferred a payment of around £70,000 on 18 March 2021. 
Mr G expected the transfer to take place sooner and made a complaint to Halifax about this. 
Halifax responded on 17 March 2021 and accepted there was a delay that it was responsible 
for. It said sorry and offered to pay £100 as a payment for distress and inconvenience. It also 
initially said it was happy to pay for investment loss caused by the delay.
Mr G responded a day later and said he would have, through the stocks and shares ISA held 
with a third party, invested in Stock A if the transfer had happened sooner. He calculated 
that his losses were around £6900. He then sent a further email on 20 April 2021 and 
explained that he made a mistake in his first response and would not have invested in        
Stock A, that he originally mentioned. He said he wouldve invested in different shares:  
Stock B and that he had now calculated his losses to be around £170,000. 
Halifax responded on 21 April 2021 and said it could see that although it was responsible for 
a delay and didnt initiate a transfer of Mr Gs cash ISA until 18 March 2021, Mr G didnt 
reinvest the money until 13 April 2021. It said Mr G didnt invest in what he told it initially he 
was going to, and there was a delay in him investing his money. So, it offered to pay Mr G 
interest instead so offered 8% simple to be paid for the days that the transfer was delayed. 
This amount came to around £230. Halifax has paid this, and its £100 offer for distress and 
inconvenience to Mr G. 
Mr G was not happy with Halifaxs response. He said Halifax told him it will pay for any 
investment loss in its initial response and it should honour that. So, an investigator from our 
service looked into his complaint. She sent her view to both parties and felt Halifaxs offer 
was a fair one. She made the following findings:
She said Halifax acknowledged it made an error. So, because of this, she looked into 
if they had done enough to put things right.
She felt Halifax had done enough and what it had proposed was reasonable.
She said a further delay took place from 18 March 2021, when Halifax made the 
transfer to 26 March 2021, when Mr G received the money. But she felt this was 
most likely not due to anything Halifax had done. She could see it used a same day 
payment service to make the transfer.
She concluded there wasnt strong enough evidence to show that Mr G intended to 
invest in the fund he said he was going to. She said there was no evidence to show 
when he intended to trade or how much he was going to invest. So, she didnt think it 
was reasonable for Halifax to reimburse for investment loss that Mr G was claiming 
for. 
She didnt ask Halifax to do any more than it had already done in Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G said Halifax caused and admitted it was at fault and liable for delaying the transfer. He 
reiterated it also said it would reimburse any investment loss. He says at no stage did it ask 
for further evidence or that he should invest money quickly after receiving it. He said he 
provided the information Halifax asked for. He said whether he made a mistake with giving 
the incorrect fund name or not, it would have made no difference, as Halifax still did not 
transfer the money to him in a reasonable amount of time. He says he has now invested the 
whole amount into the fund he said he would and is fully invested, which proves his true 
intentions. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G requested a transfer of his cash ISA held with Halifax to a third party on 22 February 
2021. Halifax looked to deal with this request three days later on 25 February 2021. There 
was then a delay and the transfer wasnt completed until 18 March 2021. Halifax accepts it 
was responsible for delaying the transfer, so I wont go into the detail concerning the 
circumstances of how it occurred. 
But what I do need to consider is whether Halifaxs offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has said on a number of occasions that Halifax told him in its letter to him on 17 March 
2021, that it would pay any investment loss and that it should honour this. I have read this 
letter and can see what has been said and offered by Halifax. I can see though, that the offer 
made by Halifax has been caveated by its request that Mr G provides further details. 
Mr G went onto provide more information about what he would have invested in (stock A), 
but for the delay, when he emailed Halifax a day later on 18 March 2021. He then invested in 
a different stock (stock B) on 13 April 2021. Mr G says he would have invested in stock B 
and not stock A, that he said he was going to invest in on 18 March 2021. He says this was 
a mistake on his behalf and that he would have invested in stock B that he eventually 
invested in on 13 April 2021. He points to the fact stock B was on his watch list and it was 
something he was looking to invest in.
I have carefully considered what Mr G has said here, and in doing so I dont think there is 
enough evidence to show that on balance he would have invested in stock B, on 25 
February 2021 but for the delay Halifax says it was responsible for. I accept that he was 
considering at that time different investments to put his money into, and one of these was 
Stock B and he did in fact invest in it. But I can also see that there was a delay in him 
investing in Stock B, from when he did receive the cash from his ISA. To make a finding that 
Mr G would have more likely than not invested in Stock B on 18 March 2022 I would need to 
see evidence from on or before that date, such as phone records or correspondence between the parties, that would support what Mr G is saying, that he would have invested in 
Stock B sooner than he did. 
So, I havent seen enough that I can safely conclude Mr G would have invested in Stock B 
on 25 February 2021. And, I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax to compensate Mr G 
for investment losses in this instance. 
Halifax offered to pay interest of 8% between 25 February and 18 March 2021 along with 
£100 payment for distress and inconvenience. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I understand it has already paid these amounts to Mr G. For the reasons I 
have given above, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman