DRN-3427956
The complaint
Miss W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss W took out loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
paymentAmount 
repayable
1 30/05/2018 £3,100 36 months £185.88 £6,691.68
2 02/04/2019 £4,000 36 months £216.21 £7,783.56
When Miss W complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and she didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided either of these loans. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what 
Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans agreed with what our adjudicator had recommended in respect of loan 2 but 
disagreed that it had done anything wrong when it provided loan 1. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
As Everyday Loans has agreed to uphold Miss Ws complaint about loan 2 and do what is 
needed to put things right in line with our adjudicators recommendation, then I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. In my decision, Im concentrating 
on loan 1. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Miss W about her income and expenses  including what she spent 
on her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Miss Ws credit 
history. Everyday Loans recorded Miss Ws monthly take home pay was around £1,421 
based on the information it saw on bank statements she provided during the loan application 
process. Everyday Loans also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking 
about Miss Ws likely spending and included an additional buffer to account for any change 
in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. Based on this, Everyday Loans said 
Miss W shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan as she should 
expect to have around £596 spare cash left after paying for this loan as she was using it to 
clear other debt currently costing her around £958 each month. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair decision to lend.
I think Everyday Loans checks before lending were proportionate. But I dont think Everyday 
Loans thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered revealed about 
Miss Ws overall financial situation. I think it had enough information in front of it to realise 
that this loan looked unsustainable for Miss W. 
I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see the level of Miss Ws recent 
borrowing activity. And that when Miss W applied for this loan, it worked out that her debt 
servicing costs to existing creditors were already around £1,150 monthly  equivalent to 
approximately 80% of her take home pay.
Like our adjudicator, I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of her income 
it was a clear indication that Miss W had become over-reliant on credit and, in reality, was 
already experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Miss Ws borrowing had got beyond her 
control and that further lending was likely to add to her financial difficulty and be detrimental 
to her.
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan would go towards debt 
consolidation  in other words, Miss W said she would use the loan to repay other debt. But 
Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Miss W used the loan as it paid the loan 
balance to her. And I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the lesser value of the 
loan and the extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that 
she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless  which is borne out by what 
happened in the event. 
So I dont think Everyday Loans shouldve provided this loan. Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Miss W hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Miss W in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss W to repay the capital amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for 
loans that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. The repayments Miss W made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Miss W having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss W bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend loans that 
shouldnt have been provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative 
information recorded on Miss Ws credit file regarding loans 1 and 2 . 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman