DRN-3087363
The complaint
This is a complaint that Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr W.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. Tesco sold Mr W the 
policy when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Tesco disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different view of the case and so I wrote a provisional decision, and asked for 
comments and any new evidence. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I will explain why.
This did all happened over 20 years ago, and so it wouldnt be surprising if 
Mr W didnt remember all the details of the sale and his situation at the time. 
But I still must decide whats most likely to be the facts, based on what 
evidence there is.
The adjudicator said that Tesco hadnt properly made clear the costs and benefits 
of the PPI policy. She said that, if it had done this properly, she didnt think Mr W 
would have taken out the PPI, because it wouldnt have seemed good value for 
him. This was because Mr W remembered being entitled to six months full sick 
pay and six months half pay; and also having about £15,000 in savings which 
were easily accessible. This would have meant hed not have needed the PPI.
Since then, Tesco has drawn my attention to some evidence from Mr Ws credit 
card account. From this I think its likely that Mr W is remembering a level of sick 
pay and savings from a different time.
Tesco says that the credit card application showed that he had worked for his 
employer for only eight months at the time of applying for the card. And I agree 
with Tesco that, for that type of employer, it was quite unlikely Mr W would have 
been entitled to such generous sick pay so soon after he had started the job.
Tesco has also pointed to Mr Ws application in which he requested a balance 
transfer from another credit card of £650.25. Tesco also gave me details of 
transactions in 2001 in which Mr W only paid off the minimum on his balance 
each month, so incurring quite a level of interest; and also, in that period, he 
made cash withdrawals incurring withdrawal fees.
As the information about transactions dates from over a year after the start of the 
credit account, that evidence isnt entirely persuasive  its possible Mr W had 
used his savings in the meantime on something else. But I do think its unlikely 
hed have asked for the balance transfer if he did have such a high level of 
savings. Its much more likely hed have paid off that debt (and not incurred it, in 
the first place) to avoid losing money on interest charges.
So, even though I cant be sure Tesco gave Mr W enough information about the 
PPI, I dont see that better information is likely to have made a difference. Mr W 
filled in the form himself and posted it, and on that form he decided to sign in the 
PPI section to say he wanted to apply for PPI cover  so it does seem he wanted 
this kind of protection. And its likely the PPI would have paid out for longer than 
his sick pay would have lasted. So the PPI could have left him in a more secure 
financial position if he did experience long term sickness or redundancy. Also, it 
doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy.
So I think the PPI would still have appeared potentially useful to him, even 
with better information.
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reason set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman