DRN-3043477
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold that PPI policy.
I know that when PPI was sold, Bank of Scotland plc was trading as Halifax. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The PPI that was sold in this case was a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). A TMPP 
was typically comprised of a number of different types of insurance products such as PPI, 
critical illness cover and life protection. It was possible to choose some or all of the products 
that were offered. In this case, Mrs G chose PPI, life and critical illness cover. However, she 
only complained about the PPI element of the cover and so that is what I have looked at in 
this decision. 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
The cover appears to have been sold during a face to face meeting between the parties. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to 
have happened, Ive looked at what Mrs G told us about it. And Ive also considered the 
documentary evidence thats available from the time. 
 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take 
out the PPI if she didnt want it.  I can see that the key facts document produced at the point 
of sale says clearly that Mrs G didnt have to take any insurance out through Halifax, and 
that the policies shed chosen were optional. Thats also reflected on the mortgage offer. I 
think these are important documents that Mrs G would have read. So if the cover wasnt 
presented to her as optional during the face to face meeting, I think shed have queried this 
at the time. The evidence doesnt suggest she did. On balance, I think the optional nature of 
the cover was made clear to Mrs G.   
Ive treated this as an advised sale because Halifax recommended PPI to Mrs G after taking 
a detailed account of her circumstances. So, it had to check that the PPI was right for her.  
To help me decide whether the policy was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also thought about what we know about Mrs Gs circumstances at the 
point of sale. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Mrs Gs mortgage repayments 
would have been covered for up to 12 months if she was off sick or if she lost her job. I 
understand that Mrs G would have received some sick pay from her employer and that she 
had some existing means. But with PPI, she could have used those means on her other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she 
was out of work. I must stress that the mortgage Mrs G took out was secured on her home 
and it could have been at risk if she was off work and she fell behind with her repayments. 
Mrs G also said she didnt need the policy because she had a death in service benefit from 
her employer. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death, not if 
she was off sick or made redundant. I can also see that the PPI would have paid out for 
longer than the redundancy entitlement Mrs G told us about. 
I appreciate Mrs G says she was financially stretched, but the information before me doesnt 
suggest the cover was unaffordable. 
I understand Mrs G had been diagnosed with some mental health difficulties in or around 
1985 and again in or around 1999. But I dont think this medical condition was still causing 
Mrs G to have difficulties when the cover was sold in 2005. I say this because she appears 
to have told Halifax she was not waiting to see her GP because of her mental health. And 
looking at the PPI questionnaire, it doesnt look as though shed had any time off work for 
some time because of that condition. So I dont think shed have reasonably thought shed 
need to be off work for at least 30 days  which is the qualifying period for this benefit  
because of her mental health. With all this in mind, I dont think Mrs Gs previous medical 
condition made this cover unsuitable for her.   
There was nothing unusual about Mrs Gs circumstances that would have stopped her from 
being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. The policy contained limitations on 
claims relating to back and mental health conditions, in that Mrs G would have been required 
to provide more medical evidence if she wanted to claim for either of those conditions. But I 
dont think Mrs G would have reasonably thought shed be able to make a successful claim without providing medical evidence anyway. And so despite the limitations, I dont think the 
policy was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. With all of these things in mind, I think the 
policy Halifax recommended to Mrs G probably was suitable for her. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs G enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. Its possible the information Halifax 
gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose 
to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. As Ive set out above, the cover 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs G, nor too dissimilar to what its most likely she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information that was probably provided. It also 
looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it could have been useful for if she couldnt 
work. Because of this I dont think Mrs G would have acted differently even if Halifax had 
given her more or better information about the policy. 
Overall, I consider that Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the point of sale. I also think the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Gs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman