The complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1998.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In May 1998, Mrs M applied for a store card by completing an application form while she was 
shopping. In August 1998, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call. Mrs M 
didnt know PPI had been added to her store card account.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs M owed on her store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs M couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call script used at the time. So I dont know what it may 
have said to Mrs M when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of the sales 
process and given the fact that PPI was added around three months after the store card 
application was made, I think Mrs M would have understood the policy was optional and that 
she chose to take it out. And it certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit  
shed had the store card for three months when she bought the policy.
And the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on her statements  so if she hadnt 
agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her knowledge or her consent, I 
think its reasonable to say she wouldve queried the premiums shortly after the policy was 
added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs M knew the policy was optional and 
chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it.
DRN-1942654I dont think AXA advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about 
the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Mrs M received about the policy at 
the time of sale. Even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the 
policy, I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mrs M was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Mrs M 
says she would have received some sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms employment benefits so could have 
proved useful to her if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. 
I dont know how exactly AXA told Mrs M about the cost and benefits of PPI. The policy 
would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly 
cost did not seem unaffordable for her. But having decided she chose to buy PPI and that 
she could get a benefit from the cover, I think Mrs M would have bought the policy even if 
she had been given full detailed information about PPI. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs M knew she had a choice about taking the PPI 
and I think she would still have taken out the cover if shed been fully informed about it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman