DRN-3468174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim 
on their Buildmark building warranty policy, for fire safety issues.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W own a new-build apartment thats covered by a ten-year building warranty 
policy. The policy started in September 2012. 
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs W contacted NHBC about fire safety issues at their block. The cost 
of remedying the issues might be passed on to the leaseholders who own the apartments.
During the final eight years of cover (i.e. years 3-10), sections 3, 4, and 5 apply. Section 5, 
which covers land contamination, isnt relevant to this complaint. 
Section 3 covers any physical damage to the property if caused by a defect in certain parts 
of the building, and (not relevant to this complaint) defects in flues or chimneys if causing a 
present or imminent danger. A defect is defined as a breach of any mandatory NHBC 
requirement during construction.
Section 4 covers the builders non-compliance with certain building regulations that applied 
at the time of construction, if causing a present or imminent danger. Section 4 only applies 
if NHBC provided building control.
NHBC declined the claim under section 3 on the basis there was no physical damage being 
caused by the fire safety issues. NHBC explained section 4 doesnt apply because it didnt 
provide building control. 
Mr and Mrs W brought a complaint to our service, but one of our investigators didnt think it 
should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so their complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find the section 3 policy terms to be clear. During years 3-10, physical damage is covered if 
its been caused by a defect in a part of the building thats listed in section 3. Whilst I accept 
remedial work has been recommended to put right various fire safety issues, I havent seen 
anything that shows physical damage has been caused by those issues. Theres simply no 
cover, under section 3, for defects that havent caused physical damage.
Mr and Mrs W argue damage should be interpreted to include financial damage. However, 
section 3 specifically refers to physical damage, not damage. I dont consider physical 
damage can reasonably be interpreted to include financial loss.
Mr and Mrs W also make the point that the purpose of a latent defects policy is to cover the 
cost of remediating the defect, not just the cost of any damage caused. I dont dispute what 
they say. Whilst section 3 is, technically, only covering the physical damage, NHBC would 
need to put the defect right that caused the insured damage to provide an effective and 
lasting repair. Nonetheless, it remains the case that for a defect to be covered under 
section 3, it needs to have caused physical damage.
I also find the section 4 policy terms to be clear. That part of the policy only applies if NHBC 
provided building control. The policy schedule shows that wasnt the case. NHBC says the 
council carried out the building control inspections for Mr and Mrs Ws building.
Mr and Mrs W have asked our service for time to study the Building Safety Act 2022, so they 
can understand the impact on their complaint. However, whilst I understand, going forward, 
builders will have to ensure certain cover is in place for the homeowners when building or 
converting a property, Ive not seen anything to suggest the Act will retrospectively make 
a building warranty provider responsible for defects which arent covered by an existing 
policy.
In any event, what I need to consider here, is whether NHBCs claim decision was in-line 
with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, and whether its claim decision was fair and 
reasonable given the wider obligations that applied at the time. In respect of those 
considerations, Im not persuaded NHBC did something wrong. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman