DRN-3745958
The complaint
Mr W complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to statements by Mr W, I include statements by his mother on his behalf.
Where I refer to Calpe, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its
broker or policy administrator, claim investigator and others insofar as I hold Calpe
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car dating from about 2013.
In about 2017, Mr W acquired the car. Mr W was living in Northern Ireland.
He bought a policy for the year from early October 2017. The policy was comprehensive, so
it covered accidental damage to Mr Ws car. Any claim was subject to an excess of 
£1,500.00.
The policy was branded with the name of the broker or policy administrator. Calpe was the
insurance company that was ultimately responsible for dealing with any claim.
The policy had General Exceptions including the following:
1 The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim arising while Your Car is
being used or driven:

(l) If You or any appropriate driver is negligently in breach of the Road Safety Act
2006, except where the Underwriters are required to provide this cover under the
Road Traffic Acts or any other legislation applicable to motor insurance.
I will refer to that as general exception (l).
In June 2018, Mr Ws car hit an oncoming vehicle, killing its driver. Mr W was injured. There
was damage to Mr Ws car, the other car and some roadside property.
Police began an investigation.
Mr W made a claim to Calpe. On 10 September 2018, Calpe said Mr Ws car had a pre-
accident valuation of £15,300.00 but was a write-off. Calpe didnt pay Mr W for his damaged
car.
Calpe settled claims from third parties for their damage and loss.
In January 2022, a court sentenced Mr W to a term of imprisonment for the offence of
causing death by dangerous driving in June 2018.
In February 2022, Calpe said it wouldnt pay his claim for his damaged car.
Mr W complained to Calpe that it should pay his claim. By a final response dated late March
2022, Calpe turned down the complaint. Mr W brought his complaint to us in late April 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it
was fair and reasonable for Calpe to apply general exception (l) and not pay for Mr Ws
accidental damage.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W  
and to Calpe on 9 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find it at all clear that general exception (l) excludes liability for negligent (or 
careless) driving.
There was an exception for damage to Mr Ws car as a result of racing against 
another motorist.
From a newspaper report, Id seen some evidence that Mr W had been racing.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from Calpe, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited:
1. not to decline Mr Ws claim in reliance on general exception (l); and
2. to reconsider Mr Ws claim in line with the policy terms (including the exception for 
racing) other than general exception (l).
Mr W disagrees with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that:
The newspaper report quoted a motorist, who didnt say he saw Mr Ws car racing or 
showing any sign of road rage, but merely an overtaking manoeuvre.
He has sent us a power point presentation which shows critical points of the road 
layout.
He overtook the hatchback car and travelled a further distance of approx. 320 metres 
before he crashed his car on a left-hand bend.
Calpe disagrees with the provisional decision in part. It says, in summary, that:
The policy clearly excludes any claim where the customer breaches the Road Safety 
Act 2006.
Mr W breached the Road Safety Act 2006 section 2B Causing death by careless, or 
inconsiderate, driving.
Mr W also breached the exception for damage to his car as a result of racing against 
another motorist. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules has the effect that  before a consumer can 
bring a complaint to us - he must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and 
waited for up to eight weeks for a final response.
The main legislation relating to driving in the UK is the Road Traffic Act 1988 (as amended
by various later Acts).
So, for example, the offence of causing death by dangerous driving is an offence under
Section 1 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 as amended by another Act from 1991.
The policy terms contained the following definition:
Road Traffic Act means any Acts, laws or regulations, which govern the driving or
use of any motor vehicle in Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the
Channel Islands.
But my reading of general exception (l) is that it applies where the policyholder is driving
negligently in breach of the Road Safety Act 2006. And that exception wouldnt apply
where Underwriters are required to provide this cover under the Road Traffic Acts or any
other legislation  which I think is a reference to the Road Traffic Act liability of insurers to
meet claims from third parties.
Ive looked at the Road Safety Act 2006. It contains over 60 sections including sections on,
for example, fixed penalty notices and vehicle examinations.
One section (section 20) created a new offence of causing death by careless or
inconsiderate driving. And I consider that careless has much the same meaning as
negligent.
However, Road Safety Act 2006 Section 20 created that offence by inserting a new section  
Section 2B  in Road Traffic Act 1988. So causing death by careless or inconsiderate driving 
is an offence under Road Traffic Act 1988 section 2B as inserted by Road Safety Act 2006 
Section 20.
General exception (l) refers to Road Safety Act 2006 but not specifically to Section 20. And 
general exception (l) doesnt refer specifically to Road Traffic Act 1988 Section 2B.
 
So I dont find it at all clear that general exception (l) excludes liability for negligent (or 
careless) driving causing death.
So I dont find that Calpe treated Mr W fairly by declining his claim in reliance on general
condition (l). Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to
meet Mr Ws claim.
However, Ive noted another exception as follows:
The Underwriters shall not be liable for

(y) for damage to Your Car as a result of racing against another motorist, road rageor a deliberate act caused by You
So there was an exception for damage to Mr Ws car as a result of racing against another
motorist.
And from a newspaper report, Ive seen some evidence that Mr W was racing.
Both Mr W and Calpe invite me to make a finding as to whether he was racing or not. 
But I dont consider that the rules allow me to make a finding on that point before Calpe has 
investigated further and made a decision, and Mr W has had an opportunity to complain to 
Calpe about that decision.
Putting things right
Rather, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe:
1. not to decline Mr Ws claim in reliance on general exception (l); and
2. to reconsider Mr Ws claim in line with the policy terms (including the exception for 
racing) other than general exception (l). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited:
1. not to decline Mr Ws claim in reliance on general exception (l); and
2. to reconsider Mr Ws claim in line with the policy terms (including the exception for 
racing) other than general exception (l). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman