DRN-4028961
The complaint
Mr J complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter failed to act responsibly when 
deciding whether to lend to him, leading to increased debt and financial difficulty.
What happened
In June and October 2018 RateSetter approved two loan applications from Mr J. Loan A, for 
£4,000, was taken out over two years with a monthly repayment of just over £200. This loan 
was used to consolidate Mr Js overdraft and credit card balances. Loan B was approved six 
months later. It combined Loan 1s balance and additional borrowing Mr J required to pay for 
his wedding, for a total of £5,888. Loan B was again set up over a two-year term with an 
increased monthly payment of a little over £300.
Mr J subsequently complained to RateSetter (and us) about its decision to approve Loans A 
and B, as well as a later loan that is the subject of a separate complaint to us. He felt 
RateSetter hadnt properly considered his financial position when approving the loans, and 
that he was only able to service the payments by borrowing money elsewhere. RateSetter 
says it undertook an affordability assessment including a review of Mr Js bank statements, 
his income and expenditure, and his existing credit commitments and payment history. It felt 
it had done enough to ensure the borrowing was affordable.
Our investigator was satisfied with the steps RateSetter took in respect of Loan A. It had 
demonstrated it made reasonable and proportionate enquiries that showed he could afford 
the loan payments. Further, she considered that the consolidation of Mr Js existing 
borrowing indicated the borrowing was sustainable.
But on Loan B, the investigator took a different view. She noted that in the relatively short 
time between taking out Loan A and applying for Loan B, Mr J had run up debt on his 
overdraft and credit card again. Hed also taken out another credit card. The investigator felt 
this ought to have prompted more enquiry from RateSetter over the way in which Mr J was 
managing his finances.
She thought that if RateSetter had made further enquiries, it would have established he was 
spending more than his income each month. That would have suggested the Loan B 
borrowing proposal was unsustainable and would have had an adverse impact on Mr Js 
situation. To address this, the investigator recommended that RateSetter refund to Mr J any 
amounts hed paid over and above the capital sum lent on Loan B; effectively a refund of 
interest and charges.
Mr J accepted the investigators recommendation. But RateSetter didnt. It maintained that 
its assessment showed Loan B was affordable as its own calculations had indicated Mr J 
would have had surplus income after taking into account the additional loan commitment. It 
asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the basis of RateSetters calculations and the method it uses for assessing 
disposable income. I dont think its necessary to set out that methodology here; its 
information thats likely to be commercially sensitive and in any event, affordability isnt the 
only strand of a creditworthiness assessment. Guidance applicable at the material time in 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) made this clear:
CONC 5.3.1G 
(1) In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability 
to repay the credit.
CONC goes on to say that the creditworthiness assessment should include the firm taking 
reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments under a regulated 
credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Im aware, of course, that many lenders use methods of assessment similar to RateSetter. 
Theres nothing inherently wrong with this. But given the additional information relevant to 
Mr Js application for Loan B  such as its proximity to him taking out Loan A, the fact hed 
gone overdrawn again after consolidating the original debt Im not persuaded it was 
appropriate for RateSetter to rely solely on its standard assessment. The individual 
circumstances of this case ought to have suggested to RateSetter that a proportionate 
assessment would involve more enquiry about how Mr J was managing his finances in order 
to ensure the lending was sustainable.
Had RateSetter done this it would have found that Mr J was not in control of his financial 
situation. I think its safe to say that the way he was dealing with his income and expenditure 
was unsustainable. He was borrowing money in order to meet repayments for his existing 
debt, so a reasonable creditworthiness assessment ought to have concluded that further 
borrowing would make an already difficult situation worse.
I appreciate that Mr J would also be familiar with his situation. It cant have escaped his 
attention that he was spending more money each month than he had coming in. So while I 
think if RateSetter had made a reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessment it 
wouldnt have lent to Mr J, I dont think it would be unfair for Mr J to pay back what he 
borrowed. Rather, I consider our investigators proposal that has the effect that RateSetter 
recovers only the capital sum it lent and not interest on that amount represents a fair way to 
recognise the difficulties its decision caused to Mr J.
I note that Loan B was ultimately repaid (I understand possibly by the subsequent loan Mr J 
took out with Ratesetter that is the subject of a separate complaint). With this in mind, the 
redress calculation for RateSetter should be relatively straightforward, in that it would be the 
interest element of each payment Mr J made on Loan B from the date he took out the loan 
until the point at which it was settled. RateSetter should also pay interest on each refund 
calculated at 8% simple per year, based on the date Mr J made each payment1.
RateSetter should also refund Mr J any arrears fees or other charges incurred on Loan B, as 
well as removing any late/missed payment information it may have recorded on his credit 
file.
1 *HM Revenue & Customs requires RateSetter to take off tax from this interest. RateSetter must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr J asks for one.Mr J should be aware that RateSetter may look to set-off any refunds against arrears on any 
other borrowing arrangement he has with it. It is entitled in law to do so, though RateSetter 
should let Mr J know if thats what it intends to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, I require Metro Bank PLC trading 
as RateSetter to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman