DRN-2554126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they had difficulty in opening an online saver with Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post Office).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a Post Office online saver account. In November 2019, they wanted to 
transfer it to new one with Post Office - which gave a better interest rate. They applied to do 
this, but some of the details provided online didnt match and so a new profile was set up for 
Mrs M. She couldnt access the online savings account with her existing internet banking 
details.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Post Office in January 2020. They said that this was 
inconvenient as he had to spend time writing to the Post Office to sort this out. They said 
Post Offices systems were flawed  they should be capable of working out what had 
happened.
Post Office responded in March 2020, April 2020 and May 2020. They said that the issue 
arose because three pieces of information which were input for Mrs M didnt match her 
existing profile  so therefore, their system considered her a new customer. There were two 
differences in the address and Mrs Ms occupation was shown as different. They looked at 
Mrs Ms profile and merged her new profile with her old one  in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. In October 2020 he said that because of the nature of an online system  where 
details are input by customers  its important that the information matches the existing 
records exactly. Otherwise, theres a risk that a customer with similar details is wrongly 
matched to another. He said Mrs Ms details had been corrected in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs M asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating this was for Mr and Mrs M. They wanted to make a simple transfer 
of their savings from one account to another, online  so it shouldve been painless and 
quick. But because there were three pieces of information which differed very slightly, Mrs M 
was set up as a new customer. So, she couldnt logon to the new savings account, and she 
got lots of mail welcoming her to Post office savings. Mr and Mrs M feel that Post Offices 
systems are flawed to allow this to happen  or should have been able to identify Mrs M as 
an existing customer and therefore treat her as such.
Ive looked all the correspondence here and at what Post Office have told us. Post Office 
operate these accounts online  so their system determines how accounts are set up. So, I 
can see that if fields of data dont match  for whatever reason - they are rejected, or dealt 
with in a way which might appear odd to customers. This is what happened here  the 
system couldnt say that Mrs M was the same as the existing Mrs M, and so thought she was 
a new customer. Theres no, or little, human involvement. Im afraid thats how online 
propositions are designed  and how they work to often give better rates of interest. 
Its not for this service to tell Post Office how to design or run its systems  thats a 
commercial decision for them.
I can see that Post Office replied to Mr and Mrs M in March 2020 and put things right by 
amalgamating Mrs Ms profile with the old one. And the transfer of funds to the new online 
saver was made on 29 November 2019  so attracting the new interest rate. So, there was 
no obvious financial loss.
So, while I can see and appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are frustrated by what has happened, 
I cant say that Post Office have done anything wrong here, and it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask them to do anymore. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman