DRN-2075532
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he took under a hire purchase arrangement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr K took a car from Blue Motor Finance under a five-year hire purchase 
agreement. The car had a recorded mileage of 71,000 and a cash price of a little over 
£21,000. It was first registered in January 2013.
In January 2020 Mr K contacted Blue Motor Finance to say that there were problems with 
the car. Specifically, he had noticed a grinding noise coming from the engine when the 
stop/start function was activated. 
Both Blue Motor Finance and Mr K arranged for an engineer to inspect the car. The 
inspections took place in March and June 2020; the June 2020 report indicated that Mr K 
had used the car for a further 8,000 miles since delivery. 
Both reports concluded that there was a fault as Mr K had described and that the likely 
cause was a problem with the cars mechatronic unit  a computerised module within the 
automatic gearbox. Neither report could say for certain whether the fault was present or 
developing at the time of delivery of the car to Mr K, although the March 2020 report 
concluded that the most likely cause was general in service wear and tear. 
The cars manufacturers have provided an estimate of nearly £3,300 to replace the faulty 
unit. 
Blue Motor Finance said that it didnt think  based on the March 2020 engineers report  
that it was liable for the cost of repairs or to allow Mr K to reject the car. Mr K referred the 
matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered his complaint. 
The investigator thought that it was likely that the problems Mr K experienced were the result 
of wear and tear and that the car was therefore of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr K. Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.
Blue Motor Finance was under a duty to provide a car of satisfactory quality to Mr K. Goods 
are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. In the case of a car, those circumstances include matters such as price, age 
and mileage. Mr Ks car was around seven years old when he reported the problem and had 
a relatively high mileage. 
Blue Motor Finance noted that Mr K had been able to use the car for several thousand miles 
before he reported the fault. It said that indicated the fault wasnt present at the time of 
delivery. I dont believe however that it necessarily follows that the car was of satisfactory 
quality; that concept includes matters including durability, so I need to consider how much 
use Mr K could reasonably have expected to have from the car without problem. 
The fault that Mr K experienced was significant, in the sense that repairs are expensive 
relative to the price of the car. He may have anticipated that the car would need some 
repairs during the hire purchase period, but probably not replacement of a major component 
costing more than £3,000. I can understand why he feels that Blue Motor Finance hasnt met 
its obligation to provide a car of satisfactory quality. 
The March 2020 report did however conclude  albeit on the basis of what was most likely  
that the problem was due to wear and tear. The subsequent report wasnt able to reach any 
conclusions about whether the fault was present at delivery. In the circumstances, I think the 
investigators finding that the car was of satisfactory quality was a reasonable one, and I 
agree with it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman