DRN-2241030
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLCs (trading as Barclaycard) actions when it 
closed his credit card account. He says hes not been sent statements or given online 
access to his account and so hasnt known if he owes an outstanding balance or when he 
ought to pay.
What happened
Mr Ms Barclaycard account was closed toward the end of October 2018 and he raised 
concerns about this as he wasnt satisfied with the reason hed been given for the closure: 
that he no longer met Barclaycards lending criteria. He was later told the account was 
closed as a result of the fraudulent activity that had occurred on the account earlier on.
 
Mr M has since accepted that answer but is unhappy with how Barclaycard have handled his 
account. He says since the account was closed hes not been able to access his account 
online. As he wasnt signed up for paper statements its meant he hasnt known what his 
outstanding balance is, what his repayments are or when theyre due. He also doesnt know 
what hes being charged in interest or if any other charges have been applied to his account.
 
Barclaycard have said his online services remain active and that he ought to have been able 
to check for details about his account there. It also said its regularly written to Mr M about 
missed payments, arrears on the account, the outstanding balance and when payments 
have been due. It acknowledges these letters wouldnt have each contained all of the 
information Mr M wanted, all in one place. But its position was that the correspondence, 
along with Mr Ms still active online service, should have given him enough information to 
maintain payments to his account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Barclaycards response. 
And he said despite raising the complaint hed still not been sent copies of his statements. 
He wanted any charges explained to him and justification for any adverse information 
recorded on his credit file.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong as he could see it had sent Mr M correspondence 
about his account. And as far as he could see it was true that Mr Ms online services were 
still active. So he didnt think Barclaycard had to do anything further.
Mr M asked an ombudsman to review his case as he still didnt think Barclaycard had done 
what it needed to, and he still didnt know information about his outstanding debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The first part of this complaint for me to make a finding on is whether Barclaycard made any 
mistakes in terms of providing Mr M with statements for his account. We know he hasnt 
been sent anything in the post as hed opted for online statements only. So the question is 
whether Barclaycard does appear to have kept this service active for Mr M.
 
Mr M has said he had no access to the online services. And whilst I dont have cause to 
doubt what hes said, the evidence shows that Barclaycard kept his access active after the 
account closure. The evidence also shows that there have been no successful log ins since 
November 2018, which is in line with what Mr M has said. But the evidence also shows there 
havent been any failed attempts either. Which suggests Mr M hasnt attempted to log in with 
his registered details. 
Its not possible for me to say exactly whats happened here. But I am persuaded by 
Barclaycards evidence that it continued to offer online services to Mr M. I can see there 
looks to have been a change in Mr Ms registered email address in November 2018. Im not 
sure if this has something to do with Mr Ms difficulties in accessing his account. What I cant 
see is any evidence of error on Barclaycards part.
Mr Ms account has now defaulted due to lack of payment and as a result his online access 
has now been removed. Which means its not possible to try and remedy the situation any 
further.
Im now going to move on to my findings around how the account was maintained and Mr 
Ms actions in seeking to settle his outstanding debt.
Mr M held an account with Barclaycard for many years. And he doesnt seem to have 
reported any issues with statements or online access prior to his account closing. And so I 
find its fair and reasonable to conclude that  even if he had access to the online services  
Mr M knew he had to make monthly payments to pay off his outstanding debt and that he 
knew  at least roughly  when payments were due each month. Its also true that he did 
know the outstanding balance at the point the account was closed and had been aware of 
the minimum payment amount, at least up to that time.
I can see Mr M did indeed go on to make a number of payments on time and in excess of 
the minimum amount due. This appears to have been in line with how he manged his 
account prior to its closure. And what it does show is that Mr M was aware of his obligations 
to pay as well as when the payments fell due. It also shows that he ought to have been 
generally aware of his outstanding balance and that he hadnt settled the debt. And so I dont 
find he ought to have been excused from continuing to make payments, even if there were 
outstanding issues with access to information about his account and balance.
 
I acknowledge Mr M hasnt said that he was refusing to pay the debt at all. But even without 
access to statements Id still expect him to make efforts to maintain his repayments, as he 
did for most of months from the point at which his account was closed. Id also expect him to 
have contacted Barclaycard in good time to highlight any concerns, so it might look to put 
things right.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr M was in contact with Barclaycard to try and remedy 
the issues hes described until January 2020. Mr M said hed discussed the matter with 
Barclaycard in November 2019 but theres no evidence of such a conversation. And there 
doesnt seem to be any explanation as to why Mr M hadnt tried to discuss the problems with 
Barclaycard before that given, according to Mr M, hed not been able to access his account 
online for a year by that time and hed already missed three payments by November 2019.
Ive also seen that Mr M missed payments in July and October 2018. Mr M hasnt said he 
was having any problems with his account at those times. And so, it seems, the missed payments in 2019 followed a similar pattern to what was happening on the account before it 
was closed, rather than it necessarily being down to an issue with statements or account 
information.
 
I can see that Barclaycard did write to Mr M numerous times about the balance of his 
account. Specifically, this was about missed payments and the need to make up arrears. So 
Mr M was clearly being sent some information about his account. There are times where Mr 
M does not look to resolve the situation with missed payments. For example, theres no 
attempt to make a payment at all in July 2019, despite a letter from Barclaycard. The arrears 
from this missed payment arent made up until the following month, and long after when it 
might be reasonably expected that the payment fell due. Mr M doesnt appear to have 
contacted Barclaycard to explain why he might have missed a payment or to say it was 
because hed had no access to statements.
Given that Mr M did know he was obliged to still make payments to his account I cant say 
Barclaycard has been wrong to add charges for missed or late payments. Its done so in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I also find Barclaycard has acted fairly in 
registering any missed and late payments with credit reference agencies.
I appreciate things have moved on somewhat since Mr M first raised his complaint. Hes 
decided to not make any payments at all for a number of months and his account is now 
defaulted. Ive not commented on Barclaycards actions in defaulting the account as that 
would need to form part of a new complaint, with Barclaycard giving its response first. But, 
generally speaking, a customer is still obligated to maintain contractual payments to an 
account even where theres an ongoing dispute. That would have to be considered in full, 
and with the particular circumstances of the case in mind, should Mr M wish to complain 
about whats happened.
On the points I have considered, I find Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman