DRN-4108567
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined an insurance 
claim he made. Mr R also says RSA damaged his window.
What happened
Mr R is a leaseholder of a flat within a block. The block is covered by a block insurance 
policy. This means the named policyholder is the freeholder of the block, but Mr R is entitled 
to claim under the policy as a beneficiary. Mr R is bringing this complaint as a leaseholder 
and beneficiary.
In May 2021, the window in Mr Rs flat (which he is responsible for under his lease) was 
open and slammed closed during what Mr R says was storm conditions. This resulted in the 
window being seized shut and the handle and locking mechanism not working.
Mr R obtained quotes for repairing the window and sent these to RSA. He also asked RSA 
to inspect the window and to arrange repairs. 
RSA inspected the window and fitted sash jammers to secure it closed whilst the claim was 
being validated. Mr R was told after this that his claim would be accepted under the storm 
damage cover under the policy.
However, this claim decision was later changed. RSA said there werent storm conditions at 
the time, and they said the issue with the window was the result of wear and tear, which is 
excluded under the policy. Therefore, RSA said the claim would be declined. However, RSA 
recognised their handling of the claim had been poor and paid £200 compensation.
Mr R was unhappy with the claim being declined. He also says that RSAs contractor has 
damaged his window, as he says they shouldnt have carried out the actions they did when 
they inspected it. So, Mr R wants RSA to fix his window. RSA didnt agree, so Mr R 
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said there 
werent storm conditions on the date of loss, so she didnt think RSA had acted unfairly by 
declining a storm damage claim. She also said RSA had considered whether it could be 
covered by the accidental damage part of the policy, but in the absence of any reports 
showing otherwise, she didnt think RSA had acted unfairly by relying on their contractor 
conclusions that it was wear and tear  which is excluded.
The investigator also said that there wasnt any evidence to support Mr Rs allegations that 
RSAs contractor damaged the window, but if Mr R obtained any evidence to show this, then 
she said he should submit this to RSA. She also recognised that there were delays and poor 
communication during the claim, but she thought the £200 compensation already paid by 
RSA was fair. Therefore, the investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything further.
Mr R didnt agree and maintained that RSA and their attending contractors arent telling the 
truth about what happened. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr R initially raised a claim for storm damage to his window. The policy which covers 
Mr Rs flat does provide cover for damage caused by a storm (subject to any exclusions). 
However, for that insured event to apply, there needs to be storm conditions in the first 
place.
Ive considered the weather conditions at the time of loss. Whilst there were strong winds 
recorded (43mph), I dont consider this to be storm conditions. So, given Im not satisfied a 
storm occurred on the date of loss, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly by declining a claim 
for storm damage.
RSA also considered whether the wider accidental damage cover under the policy could 
apply. To decide this, they relied on the report carried out by the contractor, who concluded:
(Agent name) has attended site and can confirm damage is consistent with wear 
and tear
The bedroom PVC window has jammed and will not open by the handle, the gearbox 
is broken and one friction hinge is not fully functioning
(Agent name) have fitted sash jammers to secure
A replacement handle and gearbox is required
The policy contains exclusions under the accidental damage cover, which includes:
What is not Covered
Damage cause by:
.
b) inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear
Therefore, based on their contractors conclusions that it was wear and tear related, RSA 
relied on this exclusion to decline the claim. Mr R has obtained his own quote for repairs, but 
this doesnt explain what caused the issue with his window, or that its not wear and tear 
related. In the absence of any other cause of damage report, or any evidence to 
demonstrate RSAs contractors findings are incorrect, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by 
relying on the exclusion that it is wear and tear related.
I do note Mr R has said he doesnt think hinges on windows can suffer wear and tear, but I 
dont agree. Any moving part on a window would at some point likely suffer from wear and 
tear due to prolonged use. But in any event, as I say, no evidence has been provided which 
demonstrates the conclusions reached by RSA were incorrect, and by extension that the 
exclusion doesnt apply. And as outlined, Im also not persuaded a storm occurred either, so 
Mr R also doesnt have a valid storm claim under his policy.Therefore, as I dont think its been shown an insured event has occurred, consequently I 
dont think RSA has acted unfairly by declining the claim.
Mr R also alleges that RSAs contractor caused damage to the gearbox, handle and locking 
mechanism on his window. He says this was damaged when RSAs contractor dismantled 
the window to investigate what had caused the issue. Mr R says the window was working 
perfectly before it slammed closed and RSAs contractor tampered with it, and he says he 
now has a window which is broken due to RSAs actions. Mr R is also unhappy that sash 
jammers have been fitted.
I note what Mr R says, but I do have to take into account the reason in the first place a claim 
was made was because the window wasnt opening, the handle and locking mechanism 
werent working, and the window was seized shut. So, there was already an issue with the 
window in the first place (which on balance Im persuaded was due to wear and tear). 
Mr R hasnt provided any expert reports which demonstrate the window was solely damaged 
by RSAs contractors (or an insured event either - rather than wear and tear). RSA has 
explained what needed to be done to investigate what was causing the problem, and I dont 
think those actions were unreasonable. It was part of assessing what had caused the 
window to seize, and it needed to be unjammed and dismantled in order to determine that.
I also dont think RSAs agent acted unreasonably in securing the window after, to make 
sure it remained securely closed for safety and security reasons. 
So, having taken everything into account, Im not persuaded, on balance, its been 
demonstrated that RSAs contractor is solely responsible for damaging the window gearbox, 
handle or locking mechanism, so Im not going to ask RSA to do anything further in relation 
to the window at this stage. But RSA has said that if Mr R is able to obtain any evidence to 
demonstrate their contractor was responsible (or that an insured event occurred), then theyll 
consider it further, and I dont think RSAs suggestion here is unreasonable.
Based on some of the information Mr R received from RSA (and their agents), he says they 
arent telling the truth. He believes they are saying the window was stuck open at the time 
they inspected it, and he says if this was the case they wouldnt have needed to dismantle it, 
therefore he says they are manipulating things.
Ive seen the communication Mr R refers to here, but my interpretation is that they are saying 
the window handle was stuck in the open position, rather than the window, as they also 
explained how the other works had to be carried out in order to unjam and securely close it. 
And this is also supported by the claim decision letter sent to Mr R, which outlined that the 
window was stuck shut/closed. Ive referred to the report completed at that time of inspection 
above, and Im satisfied this supports that RSA was aware the window was stuck closed, 
and not open as Mr R says they are now saying. 
With this in mind, I dont think RSA are manipulating things as Mr R alleges, and for the 
reasons outlined above, I dont think Mr R has shown he has a valid claim, or RSA is solely 
responsible for damaging his window.
However, I recognise that the claim wasnt handled in line with Mr Rs reasonable 
expectations, there was poor communication, delays, and Mr R was told the claim would be 
covered which wasnt the case as this was later retracted. But RSA already recognised the 
service Mr R received was poor, and they paid £200 compensation for this. Having taken 
everything into account, I think the compensation already paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to direct RSA to increase this.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman