DRN-3975527
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling of a claim made 
under their landlord policy. 
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D own a property which they rent out. In early 2021, there was a leak in the 
property, so they contacted AXA. It carried out some repairs in April 2021. Mrs D and Mr D 
say as a result of the leak, their tenant asked to be released from the rental agreement to 
find somewhere else to live. Mrs D and Mr D agreed to this. 
AXA covered the cost of the repairs in line with the policy. Mrs D and Mr D asked AXA to pay 
for the rental income theyd lost as a result of the leak. AXA says it asked Mrs D and Mr D to 
provide evidence supporting the reason their tenant needed to be released from the rental 
agreement. As this wasnt provided, AXA said it would only pay for five days lost rent. AXA 
said this payment was to cover the period of time during which the bathroom was being 
repaired, so was unable to be used. It felt this was a fair outcome as the tenant had lived in 
the property for approximately six weeks after the leak occurred, but prior to the bathroom 
being repaired. 
Mrs D and Mr D didnt think this was sufficient and raised a complaint. AXA didnt agree to 
increase the offer but did pay Mrs D and Mr D £100 in recognition of the delay in handling 
their complaint. Unhappy with the way AXA tried to resolve their complaint, Mrs D and Mr D 
referred their case to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended AXA increase the loss of 
rent payment, to cover the timeframe between the tenant leaving and the property being 
ready to rent out again. AXA didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me for a 
decision to be made. 
I issued a provisional decision; Ive copied my findings below:
The key issue that remains for me to decide is whether AXA has fairly settled the part of 
Mrs D and Mr Ds claim in relation to their claim for loss of rent.
In the first instance, I think its helpful to clarify there isnt any dispute of the timings. Mrs D
and Mr D told their broker they needed to make a claim in February 2021, but its clear from
AXAs file it was June 2021 before it became aware of the claim. By this point, the property
had been fully repaired, and AXA was unable to inspect any damage caused by the escape
of water.
With these timings in mind, I find myself more persuaded by AXAs argument the late
notification of the claim meant its position was potentially prejudiced. I appreciate what Mrs
D and Mr D said about the steps they took to dry the property, but I have to balance their
comments against those made by AXA made in response. AXA said the dehumidifiers put in
the property by Mrs D and Mr D or their agents werent as efficient as the ones its drying
company would have used. Mrs D and Mr D have told us about the capacity of the
dehumidifiers they used, but it doesnt seem an unreasonable conclusion that a dehumidifier
supplied by a commercial company would likely be more efficient than one intended for
domestic use, purchased online.
However, the key point here is due to the late notification of the claim to AXA, its not
possible to know for certain how quickly AXA might have been able to dry the property. But I
consider it more likely than not it would have been faster achieved with commercial
dehumidifiers than the ones Mrs and Mrs D used, including those supplied by the letting
agent.
While I acknowledge Mrs D and Mr D relied on the damp report stating ideally the property
would have been empty during the drying process, the report didnt say it must be empty in
order for the drying to take place. So, its possible the tenant may not have needed to move
out when they did if AXA had been notified sooner.
Im mindful Mrs D and Mr D said the tenant needed to move for their health. Against this
background I note the tenant remained in the property for several weeks from the point the
leak became apparent. I note Mrs D and Mr D say the reason for this was the Covid-19
pandemic which meant it was harder to find a new property for their tenant. However, as I
will explain below, for the loss of rent cover to engage under the policy, the property needs
to be uninhabitable. As Mrs D and Mr D went ahead with the repairs, without providing an
opportunity for AXA to inspect the pre-repaired state of the property, the evidence on this
point is inconclusive. It appears Mrs D and Mr D chose to let their tenant end their
agreement.
While I acknowledge the property suffered some damage as a result of the leak, I havent
been provided with any evidence to lead me to conclude with certainty it was uninhabitable
from the point the tenant left. And I find myself coming back to the point that AXA was not
offered the opportunity to inspect or put right the damage. Had it been aware before the
repairs were completed, I consider it might have been able to do so more quickly, lessening
the impact on the tenant or the time the property was empty. And some clearer evidence
may have become available about the habitable state of the property at that time.
Ultimately, where there are two sides that differ in their view of how a claim has been
handled, I make my decision based on what I think more likely than not, was the case, and 
what I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In deciding this Ive considered the
information provided. I accept there were five days when the bathroom was inaccessible
when the repair works were being carried out. And I accept the property was likely in a
worse state while it was drying and repairs carried out than when it had initially been rented
out.
But I dont consider the evidence provided is sufficient to show the property was
uninhabitable for the duration of the time it was being dried and when the repairs were
carried out. Whilst a tenant might have experienced some inconvenience during the repairs,
I find myself noting the overall cost for repairs was fairly low, suggesting that there would
have been minimal interruption.
Im not persuaded the evidence provided shows AXA is responsible for the almost three
months lost rent between the tenant leaving and the property being repaired. AXA offered to
pay Mrs D and Mr D loss of rent for five days, the timeframe when the bathroom was
inaccessible. And for the reasons Ive given, Im minded to say this is a fair and reasonable
outcome. Im therefore not intending to require it to repay the lost rental income from the
time the tenant left the property until the repairs were completed. So, my provisional decision
is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs D and Mr D responded to my provisional decision. They said:- They werent aware AXA was the underwriter for this policy, they thought they 
needed to contact their management company and insurance broker (who Ill call F)
- They dont think its accurate I said AXA was unable to inspect the damage, because 
F didnt ask for an inspection to be carried out. It if had been requested, Mrs D and 
Mr D would have arranged for this to happen
- Mrs D and Mr D says there wasnt a request for information about their tenants 
health
- Mrs D and Mr D say they werent told by F that commercial dehumidifiers could be 
obtained
- They say they were told by F not to put in the claim until the works were complete
- They reiterated they acted on the recommendation of the company which said the 
property should be empty when being dried. 
AXA didnt respond to the provisional decision within the timeframe set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill turn first to the policy documents. Im satisfied that the policy documents made it clear the 
underwriter for this policy was AXA. Ultimately, this means any decisions about how the 
claim is settled lie with AXA. That being said, I can see the bottom of the insurance 
certificate does state in the a number of circumstances, including to make a claim, to contact 
F. I can understand why Mrs D and Mr D contacted F first, based on that information. 
Ill turn now to the other comments made. I dont agree that its inaccurate to say AXA wasnt 
able to inspect the damage. Its documented it was only notified about the claim after the 
damage had been repaired. Thats not to say Mrs D and Mr D didnt offer AXA the 
opportunity to inspect the damage. But its clear that as AXA wasnt aware of the claim until 
June (after the repairs were carried out) it wasnt able to inspect the damage or have any 
input into how the repairs should be carried out. 
I appreciate Mrs D and Mr D say they acted on advice from F in terms of sourcing their 
humidifiers. However, I still consider if AXA had been aware of the claim when the damage 
occurred, it would more likely than note have been able to take steps to dry the property 
more quickly (such as providing commercial dehumidifiers). While I havent got any call 
recordings, AXAs notes show there were discussions with F about the tenants health, so 
while there may not have been requests made directly to Mrs D and Mr D about this, Im 
satisfied it was considered by AXA. 
I appreciate Mrs D and Mr D feel they acted on the drying companies recommendation for 
the property to be empty when being dried. Ive reviewed the report again. It states the 
property would ideally be empty, not that it must be for the drying to take place. I dont 
consider this report is, in itself, sufficiently persuasive for me to say AXA should extend the 
loss of rental income beyond the days when the bathroom was unavailable. 
Mrs D and Mr D sought advice from their broker, and they acted on this. I understand that. If 
they are unhappy with the information given to them by F, they can consider raising a 
separate complaint. However, I need to consider the information provided by both sides and 
having done so, I dont consider AXA has acted unfairly in how its settled the claim. Im not 
going to require AXA to do anything more to put things right for Mrs D and Mr D.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman