DRN-3652652
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt do enough to help him when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr W contacted Monzo and said that hed been scammed. He reported several 
debit card payments were fraudulent. 
When asked about what had happened, Mr W said that he had been experiencing issues 
with an online game and had requested help from the games admin. He gave permission 
to the individual to remotely access his laptop to fix the issue. But they accessed his account 
with a global online payments system and made several payments to two gaming accounts, 
also held with the same online payment system. The payments were made using Mr Ws 
Monzo card details which were already stored on his online payment system account. 
Mr W told Monzo that one of the gaming retailers had already returned the funds when 
reported the matter. He asked for Monzos assistance in recovering his remaining loss of 
£379. It declined to refund the payments and said that Mr W hadnt taken reasonable 
measures to keep his details safe. But it recognised that there were some service issues and 
paid £25 compensation.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was escalated 
for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month and 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. 
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisional decision. Neither 
party has provided anything further for me to consider. So, what follows is my provisional 
decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr W. My role is to consider Monzos actions in 
connection with these payments, and I can only make an award or direction if I find that it 
acted unfairly. Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised, and generally banks will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. 
I find that the details of how the scam unfolded are still unclear. Mr W says that as far as 
hes aware, the transactions happened because his account with the online payment system 
was compromised. But Im also faced with conflicting version of events from him. On the one 
hand, Mr Ws said that the disputed payments were unrecognised and unauthorised. But on 
the other, hes also said,  they asked me to move money onto my card to make payments 
which Id get back and get bonuses for helping out....
In cases when its not clear what happened, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I find most probable to have happened considering the 
evidence and wider circumstances of the case. 
From what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr W authorised the transactions. 
I say this because:
He acknowledged at one point that he was aware of the payments and referred to the 
scammer as very convincing regarding the payments.
Funds were transferred from Mr Ws savings pot to his main account before each 
disputed transaction was made via his card. Given Mr W says his Monzo account 
wasnt compromised, it seems to me that only he could have made these internal 
transfers. And, given the sequence of the transactions, it seems more likely than not 
that Mr W was transferring funds between his pot and his main account for a specific 
purpose.
Given Im persuaded that these payments were authorised, the starting position is that Mr W 
is liable for them, and Monzo shouldnt refund them. 
That said, Monzo also has a duty to protect its customers from financial harm and be on the 
lookout for unusual or suspicious transactions. So, Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo 
ought to have spotted that Mr W was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
I dont think there was a reason for Monzo to have challenged any of the disputed payments. 
Thinking about the amounts involved and the gaps between each disputed payment, there 
isnt anything particularly unusual or suspicious based on Mr Ws spending activity such that 
Monzos systems ought to have been triggered. A bank must balance the extent to which it 
intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.  
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to help Mr W once it was 
notified of the scam. As the payments were made using a debit card, the only avenue for 
recovery would have been a chargeback which is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers. 
Under the chargeback scheme rules, there are only a limited number of reasons which give 
grounds for a valid chargeback. Depending on the reason code, Mr W would have been 
required to provide specific evidence to support his claim. Also, Monzo wasnt obligated to 
raise or pursue a chargeback if it didnt think that there was a reasonable chance of success.
When he first reported the matter to Monzo, Mr W raised a dispute based on goods or 
services not received. Given that he provided conflicting information about what went wrong 
and was vague about what how the scam unfolded, I can understand why Monzo didnt 
pursue the chargeback route. Im also mindful that the payments went to another user of the 
online payments system. In my view, its highly likely that the scammer made these 
payments using its Friends and Family option to avoid the risk of a chargeback which would 
have been deemed invalid in that situation.
Considering everything, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly or unreasonably by not attempting 
a chargeback. I can see that its recognised there were some failings and has already paid 
Mr W £25 compensation. I consider this amount to be fair in the circumstances.In summary, I know that Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But for the reasons stated above, I dont consider it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold Monzo liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman