DRN-4014064
The complaint
Mr B complained that One Insurance declined a theft claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
When Mr B made a claim after his car was stolen, One Insurance discovered that Mr B  
wasnt the cars owner and registered keeper at all. Instead that was a limited liability 
partnership (the firm) in which Mr B  was a partner. One Insurance said that if theyd known 
this, they wouldnt have insured him at all. And so One Insurance declined the theft claim 
under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), 
avoided the policy from the start and returned the premiums. Mr B complained to us via his 
solicitors. He thought that One Insurance hadnt proven that they would not have provided 
the policy if Mr B had given them the correct information. He wanted One Insurance to allow 
his claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that One 
Insurances decision to decline the claim was reasonable and theyd followed CIDRA. Mr B  
didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B  took out the policy via an online insurance comparison website. He said then that he 
was the cars owner and registered keeper. However when, after the car was unfortunately 
stolen, One Insurance checked its V5 registration form and found that Mr B s firm was the 
owner and keeper. One Insurance said they wouldnt have insured him at all if theyd known 
this. They showed us their underwriting criteria which confirmed this. They refused to pay the 
theft claim. They also avoided the policy, which means that they treated it as not having 
existed from the start, and returned the premiums paid. This was because they thought that 
Mr B had made a careless qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Mr B  was asked Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner ? This is a 
clear question. Mr B  accepts that he did say that he was the registered keeper and owner of 
the car. However he felt he had taken reasonable care to answer correctly. He said that 
when he took out the policy, he didnt have the V5 form. He assumed that it had been 
completed in his name and sent to his firms address direct by the dealership. His firm took 
responsibility for storing the V5 and he hadnt seen it. 
However Mr B knew that his firm was financing the car and that the dealer was sending all 
the cars paperwork to his firm, rather to than to him personally. So I think it would have been 
reasonable for him to at least check who owned it, his firm or him personally. One Insurance 
have also shown that they gave Mr B a notice warning him that he must give honest answers 
taking reasonable care and that he should also tell them about any inaccuracies on the 
Statement of Fact form, as failure to do that could leave him uninsured. The Statement of 
Fact form shows Mr B  as the owner and registered keeper.
I dont think that Mr B  took reasonable care when he took out the policy to correctly answer 
the question about ownership or to later tell them about an inaccuracies. So it wasnt 
unreasonable of One Insurance to decide that Mr B had made a qualifying misrepresentation 
which, although not deliberate or reckless, was careless under CIDRA.  And One Insurance 
have shown us their underwriting criteria which confirms that without Mr B s 
misrepresentation they would not have provided the policy at all. If the owner was a firm or 
company that didnt meet their eligibility criteria. And so the actions they took did follow 
CIDRA.  
Mr B thought that his firm being the owner and registered keeper of the car shouldnt affect 
this so much. However its up to insurers to decide what they want to insure and what 
information to consider when deciding the risk they want to take, and who owns a car is 
material to that risk. In any event, the factors an insurer considers in doing so, and the 
weight they place on those factors, is the insurers choice, and its not our role to question 
those. And because their underwriting guidelines are commercially sensitive information, 
insurers dont have to disclose it, and we cant require them to, even if Mr B is unhappy 
about that.  
Mr B doesnt believe One Insurance wouldnt have insured the car if hed said that his firm 
was the owner. He has shown us what he says are screenshots of online quotes he later 
obtained from One Insurances website. He says they show that One Insurance will insure a 
company and so would have insured his firm at the time. This is based on the specific 
wording on the quotes website as to who is the insurance provider. 
However One Insurance maintain that because One Call Insurance are also the broker and 
main point of contact their name shows as provider when they provide quotes, but this does 
not mean that they are the provider of the underlying insurance; insurance for a company 
would be provided by other insurers and not them. I find their explanation to be reasonable 
and credible, and that the screenshots reference to One Call Insurance as insurance 
provider is plausibly explainable by them simply having used the One Call name in the 
wrong context. That does not undermine the underwriting evidence produced to us that One 
Insurance would not have provided the policy to Mr B .  
I do see that this situation has been distressing for Mr B. It is very unfortunate that the car 
was stolen, through no fault of Mr B s own, and that his firm has incurred a loss as a result. 
However One Insurance have followed CIDRA guidelines in dealing with the matter and they 
have not been unreasonable. As they havent done anything wrong, I dont require them to 
do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
