DRN-2683708
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC has reported a missed payment to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) and as a result a missed payment marker has been added to her credit file.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss K checked her credit file with one of the CRAs. She was shocked to 
find that a missed payment had been recorded by Lloyds. When she contacted Lloyds, it 
explained that Miss K had been over her arranged overdraft between 30 March 2020 to 25 
May 2020. 
Miss K  who says she always tried to be a responsible consumer - said that she hadnt 
received the usual text messages or letters about being over her overdraft so had been 
unaware. In addition, she explained that she had been in hospital twice and had a 
particularly difficult time in the last 12 months.
Lloyds investigated her concerns and wrote to her with its final response saying that as shed 
been in an unauthorised overdraft for more than a calendar month the late payment marker 
had been applied. It said that text messages had been sent to her regarding her overdraft. 
And that as it is required to report accurate information to CRAs the late payment couldnt be 
removed.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied after having 
seen: 
Miss Ks account statements showing she was over the arranged overdraft from 30 
March 2020 to 25 May 2020; and 
evidence that a text message was sent to Miss K on 31 March 2020 which explained 
that she was using an unarranged overdraft
that the late payment marker was correctly applied.
She appreciated that Miss K didnt receive the text but noted there were several other ways 
which she could access her account in order to ensure that she was maintaining a balance 
within her arranged overdraft.
She was sympathetic to the challenges Miss K faced but didnt think Lloyds were aware of 
these challenges at the time. And felt it applied the marker correctly given what it knew at the 
time.
Miss K disagrees. She reiterated she didnt receive the text and doesnt agree with the 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Miss K has been unwell. I can see that the late payment marker 
doesnt reflect how she ordinarily runs the account. I asked Lloyds if it would remove the 
marker in view of Miss Ks ill health. It wouldnt agree. This is because it has a duty to report 
true and accurate information to credit reference agencies. I appreciate Lloyds position here 
particularly because it texted Miss K to tell her the account was in unarranged overdraft.
Miss K has explained to this service that she was during the period in question struggling 
from day-to-day, so much so that her parents came to stay with her to help her. 
In the end, despite my considerable sympathy for Miss K I must look at things impartially 
here. Having done so, I dont think it would be fair for me to order Lloyds to change what it 
has reported. I appreciate she was unwell during the relevant period here, but she ultimately 
didnt make payments, when needed, to her account. This is what Lloyds is reporting and it 
is information that is accurate. So, it wouldnt be right for me to tell Lloyds to change that, 
even bearing Miss Ks circumstances in mind here. Miss K does have the option to ask credit 
reference agencies to put a notice of correction on her file. Here she will be able to explain 
the circumstances of the marker. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman