DRN-2273211
The complaint
Miss R complains that Metro Bank PLC delayed her changing the interest rate on her buy to 
let mortgage, leaving her paying the higher standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Miss R took out an interest only buy to let mortgage with Metro Bank in 2016 with an initial 
fixed rate product. 
The rate on Miss Rs mortgage expired in December 2018 and reverted to the SVR. Later 
that month, Miss R says she asked to change her rate but Metro Bank said that she would 
need to clear the arrears on her mortgage account first. 
She complains, in summary, that:
she couldnt change her interest rate from the SVR because she was in arrears
her request to change the payment due date wasnt dealt with
she had to wait one month after paying the arrears before she could change her 
payment date and her interest rate product
she isnt happy with the manner and tone in which she was dealt with by staff 
members
Metro Bank contacted her excessively when she fell into arrears
she felt worried and stressed as she was threatened with court action 
To resolve the matter, Miss R would like to be refunded the difference between the amount 
she paid on the SVR and the monthly payment she is now making for four months between 
January and April 2019. She would also like to be compensated for the trouble and upset 
this matter caused. 
Metro Bank responded to the complaint to say that it gave her incorrect information during a 
call in February 2019 and offered her £50 but didnt uphold the rest of the complaint.
Miss R brought her complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He 
concluded that the £50 offer Metro Bank had made was fair in the circumstances. Miss R 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Switching the rate
Unfortunately, Miss R missed payments on her mortgage account, and it fell into arrears. 
She contacted Metro Bank on 24 December 2018 and explained that she would be making a 
payment to the account and the adviser let her know that, because her rate had reverted to 
the SVR, the monthly payment due was higher than what she had been paying previously. 
She explained that she thought the rate was changing in January 2019 and was hoping to 
apply for a new fixed rate beforehand. Ive listened to this call and noted that the Metro Bank 
adviser explained that the SVR had already been applied to the account and that it would be 
too late to apply for a rate switch from January 2019, he explained that the earliest time she 
could arrange a switch to come into effect from would be February 2019.
Miss R was sent letters from around July 2018 reminding her that her rate would be 
changing, and Ive noted one letter she was sent in October 2018, which told her that she 
would need to give Metro Bank ten working days notice to change her rate before the 
1 December 2018 when her rate expired. So I think she was given sufficient notice of this 
and the need to allow time before any new rate could be applied. 
Miss R and Metro Bank spoke again in January 2019 and discussed the rate switch. Miss R 
was presented with options and said that she would think these over and come back to 
Metro Bank- who also advised that she could apply online. I dont think anything further 
needed to happen at this point as Miss R was weighing up her options to decide which rate 
to choose. 
The arrears balance was paid in full on 15 February 2019 and Miss R contacted Metro Bank 
on 26 February to ask to switch the rate of her mortgage and the application was considered 
from this point. From listening to the calls, I think Metro Bank worked with Miss R to help her 
with the switch, which was then applied from April 2019 onwards. 
Miss R couldnt make the switch as her mortgage account was in arrears but I dont think 
Metro Bank acted incorrectly here  it explained that this is a BTL mortgage so shouldnt be 
in arrears and that there should be other funds to cover any shortfall. It also explained that it 
didnt have a proposal to address the arrears on the account or evidence of how future 
payments would be made and so I dont think it acted unfairly by saying that the arrears 
need to be cleared before a new rate could be arranged. And its important to note that 
entering into a fixed rate would generally mean that a borrower is tied into an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC). If arrears were to continue on an account and a lender took 
possession, then an ERC would be payable and this could result in a higher cost in the long 
run. 
I appreciate Miss Rs frustrations that the rate switch didnt affect her monthly payments until 
May 2019. But, as Metro Bank explained, payments are collected a month behind so there 
was still a months worth of payments at the SVR. It explained that the change to the product 
could happen from April 2019 and then this would take effect in reducing the monthly 
payments from the May 2019 payment.
Changing the payment due date
Miss R also says she asked to change her payment due date from the first to the sixth of the 
month to fall after she received additional income. She said she spoke to Metro Bank about 
this and assumed that this had been sorted, but later found out it hadnt. Ive reviewed the 
call notes and cant see that this was discussed in detail before the call on 26 February 
2019. 
In the call on 26 February, it was identified that a direct debit hadnt been set up on the 
account and manual payments were being made. The adviser explained that a manual 
payment would need to be made for 1 March 2019 and if she wanted to change the payment 
date to 6 March 2019, this wouldnt come into effect until 6 May 2019 because a direct debit 
wasnt set up on the account - but Ive noted this was corrected in a call the following day 
and Miss R was told the change could happen from 6 April 2019 and that there wasnt a 
requirement for a direct debit to be set up on the account before doing this. This error was identified by Metro Bank in its final response letter and an offer of £50 made in recognition of 
this  which I consider to be fair in the circumstances. 
So I dont agree that Miss R was told she couldnt change her payment date because of the 
arrears on the account. For the reasons Ive given, I cant see that Metro Bank had the 
opportunity to consider a change to the payment date until the call on 26 February 2019 and 
whilst there was some initial confusion, this was rectified in the call the next day and it was 
agreed that this change could take effect from April 2019. 
Later, in a conversation about the product switch, Miss R said she wanted to change the 
repayment date to 15 March but was told that she would need to pay £500 to do so. I think 
this was because the new rate would be applicable from May 2019, as Metro Bank explained 
that payments are taken one month in arrears, so I dont consider it unreasonable for Miss R 
to have to pay this amount to cover the associated interest and Im satisfied that this wasnt 
an extra charge. 
Treatment from Metro Bank staff
Miss R has complained about the manner and tone she was dealt with by staff at Metro 
Bank.
Ive noted that Miss R was passed to different departments, but this was because different 
teams are able to assist with different queries- for example collections to discuss arrears and 
the mortgage team to discuss the rate switch. Having listened to the calls, I havent heard 
anything to suggest that the staff acted inappropriately towards Miss R. 
Ive noted she did make a number of calls to get this matter sorted and whilst I appreciate 
this is frustrating, I think its reasonable to expect some bother when applying for a new rate. 
Im also mindful that Miss R was told in December 2018 that she could apply for a rate online 
initially if she wished so I think there were other options available to her. 
Contact about the arrears and threat of court action
Ive reviewed the level of contact Miss R received about the arrears on the account and I 
dont think it was excessive. Metro Bank was calling Miss R to try to get an understanding of 
her ability to clear the arrears and pay the mortgage in the future. Its clear that Miss R had a 
number of expenses at the time and costs associated with one of her other properties. She 
explained to Metro Bank that she was doing renovation work on the mortgaged property so 
finding new tenants was delayed.
Ive noted in a call in January 2019 that Metro Bank advised that it might look to take 
recovery action if the account was not paid up to date. I appreciate that this must have been 
worrying for Miss R, but I dont think this was unreasonable from Metro Bank to let her know 
this and it was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account which state that it 
can do this when a customer is behind on monthly payments. Notwithstanding this, Ive 
noted that Metro Bank didnt proceed with appointing receivers or taking any further action 
and I dont think its treated Miss R unfairly here.
ConclusionsI appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Miss R and that shes experienced some 
bother with making these changes to her buy to let mortgage. But for the reasons Ive given, 
I dont think that Metro Bank treated her unfairly. 
I understand that Miss R will be disappointed but having considered everything, I think the 
£50 offered by Metro Bank in recognition of incorrect information about the direct debit is fair 
in all the circumstances and I wont be requiring it to do anything further to settle this 
complaint
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think Metro Bank PLCs offer of £50 is fair and reasonable in the 
all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman