DRN-3168736
The complaint
Miss X is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited because it made mistakes whilst 
handling her claim which caused unnecessary delays.  
What happened
Miss X had private medical insurance with AXA. She claimed on her policy in October 2020 
after suffering with poor mental health. Miss X also suffered symptoms of parasomnia  
which meant she was experienced nightmares, possibly triggered by childhood trauma. 
Miss X said that AXA caused unnecessary delays when she first made it aware of her 
problems and that she had to extend her FIT note and take more time off work because of 
this. She also said that she was referred, several times, to incorrect specialists that were ill 
equipped to handle her symptoms.
AXA admitted making mistakes whilst it attempted to triage Miss Xs claim. It apologised for 
this by initially sending flowers and later paying her £350 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. Our investigator thought this was a fair way to resolve things. But Miss X 
disagreed. 
In summary she said that the compensation awarded was not enough. She said the impact 
this has had on her hasnt been fully considered. She explained that the delays werent just 
10 days and urged the investigator to consider that it was five months worth of delays, 
driven by AXAs poor handling of her claim. Miss X said this came at a time when she was 
most vulnerable and that she effectively felt AXAs behaviour and expectations on her were 
unreasonable. She wants the compensation increased because of this.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are the 
same as those already given by our investigator. I recognise AXAs mistakes handling her 
claim, but overall, Im persuaded that the explanation, apology and compensation is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Its not in dispute that AXA could have handled things better. In its final response, AXA said 
that although the referral letter from Miss Xs doctor alluded to her diagnosis of parasomnia, 
it wasnt clear what type of specialist she needed to see. AXA explained that there are 
several different treatment options for this condition, including referral to an ENT specialist, 
psychiatrist, respiratory specialists or a sleep clinic. Ive considered the referral and AXAs 
explanation and I agree that the intended treatment plan wasnt made clear. And so, I accept 
that AXA needed to better understand this and was doing the right thing by asking Miss X to 
clarify this with her referring specialist. Further, AXAs team that were triaging Miss Xs claim 
arent medically trained and so I wouldnt expect it to make clinically based decisions about 
treatment of her symptoms. So I dont think it did anything wrong here. 
I understand Miss Xs arguments about AXA placing unfair expectations on her to gather 
medical evidence and other information at a time she was unwell, but I dont think AXA 
asked her to do anything unreasonable. I also note that AXA engaged with the correct 
specialist to treat her symptoms and there was some back and fourth needed and that it did 
this so that Miss X didnt have to. Overall, I dont agree with Miss X that the compensation 
should be increased on that point because theres no medical evidence that persuasively 
suggests that this was beyond Miss Xs capabilities. Id expect there to be some level of 
engagement between Miss X, the insurer and the treating specialists and Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuaded me AXA behaved unreasonably. 
Where AXA did make mistakes, its highlighted and accepted them. AXA caused delays by 
duplicating referrals. Miss X, when she called in October to make her claim, was referred to 
complete a psychological needs assessment, which she previously undertaken. I agree this 
was unnecessary and caused a delay of around two weeks. Miss X had to extend her FIT 
note for this which, although inconvenient, I dont consider to be beyond the realms of 
reasonable expectation. I say that because despite the short delay, I dont consider this to be 
excessive. 
AXA apologised and accepted it should have asked Miss X whether this had already 
happened and sent her flowers by way of apology. Miss X highlighted this was at a time 
where she was feeling very unwell and that this impacted her greatly. And whilst I 
acknowledge that, I dont think it impactful enough to warrant additional compensation. Its 
not for me to punish AXA for making mistakes. Ive considered whether there was any loss 
here, but Im satisfied there wasnt. Miss X continued to receive sick pay from her employer 
during that time and so its simply unfortunate that AXA made an error. But I think it did 
enough to put things right and I dont consider the delay to be excessive.
My consideration of the additional errors made around referrals for sleep deprivation and the 
further treatment needed, also follow the same line of thinking. Its not in dispute that AXA 
could have handled things better, for all the reasons already explained by our investigator. 
But AXA put things right by acknowledging this and paying £350 compensation. Miss X said 
this isnt enough, because she feels the mistakes were such that she was severely 
impacted. 
But Im not persuaded by her arguments here. I accept that it took some time for AXA to fully 
understand her treatment path, but this wasnt solely down to AXAs mistakes. There was a 
lack of clarity from Miss Xs referring specialist about what treatment was needed. AXA 
attempted to better understand this and was proactive in reaching out for further information. 
I say that because Miss X, having received her referral letter from the sleep clinic passed 
this to AXA on 16 December. Her claim was then accepted shortly after on 21 December. By 
6 January 2021, AXA realised there was missing information about the type of specialist 
Miss X needed to see and thats when the back and fourth began with her and the intended 
specialists. I dont consider that timeframe to be excessive. 
Miss X received treatment the following month and I note there was also a delay on Miss Xs 
part from 6 January, when AXA asked her for more information, to 21 January, when she 
responded. 
Our investigator said the impact was moderate which is why she said AXA had done 
enough. To be clear, I agree with that and I think AXAs compensation award fairly reflected 
the level of trouble and upset its actions had on Miss X in these particular circumstances.   My final decision
I make no further award here because I dont uphold Miss Xs complaint, for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman