DRN-1967483
The complaint
Mrs H complains that the Guaranteed Future Minimum Value (GMFV) established in her 
finance agreement with FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA), was less than the car was 
eventually worth and should have been at least the same.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The GMFV is established when the finance agreement is negotiated. It is the business best 
estimate of what the car will be worth at the end of the finance agreement. If the consumer 
wishes to take ownership of the car at the end of the finance arrangement it is guaranteed 
that they will not have to pay any more than the GMFV. 
So, if the value of the car depreciates more than the dealership considered it would when 
they established the finance agreement, the consumer may lose out, as is the case here. But 
they do not have to purchase the car and can instead simply hand it back.
Whilst its is hoped that the GMFV will be a fairly accurate representation of future value it 
can only ever be an estimation. In this case that estimation was made some four years 
before the finance agreement was due to end and unfortunately the value of the car had 
dropped faster than expected. 
But that doesnt mean FCA need to change the GMFV. That was agreed at the outset and 
there was no agreement to renegotiate it. 
So, I dont think FCA have done anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman