DRN-2725742
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss C under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor 
Finance that she electronically signed in December 2019. She returned the car to the dealer 
in January 2020 because of a noise issue and it replaced a wheel bearing  but she says 
that it continued to be noisy and that she stopped using the car in April 2020. She returned 
the car to the dealer again in June 2020 but she says that it said that there was a water leak 
which it wouldnt repair. Miss C took the car to another garage which identified an oil leak 
and that the head gasket needed to be replaced. She then complained to Specialist Motor 
Finance but it didnt agree that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss C. Miss C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The car was inspected by an independent expert in February 2021 after which our 
investigator recommended that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that Miss C was entitled to reject it. She 
recommended that Specialist Motor Finance should: end the agreement; refund any deposit; 
arrange collection of the car; pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused; remove any 
negative information from Miss Cs credit report; refund any payments made after the end of 
March 2020; and pay interest on the refunds.
Specialist Motor Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
has responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary, that:
Miss C raised her complaint in June 2020, almost 6 months after purchase, and the 
car had only had a repair to the wheel bearing which was a wear and tear issue;
when she returned the car to the dealer in June 2020 it said that it would need to strip 
the car down to confirm the problem, which was a possible water leak, and further 
investigation would be required of the oil leak but that she shouldnt drive the car until 
the fault had been diagnosed; 
Miss C chose to take the car away without further diagnosis and against the advice of 
the dealer so it was unable to do any further work on the car; 
Miss C purchased a used car that was over eight years old and had travelled around 
68,600 miles;
the independent report, which it arranged, says that it believes its a cylinder head 
gasket breach but that it requires further investigation  if Miss C had left her car with 
the dealer, any fault could have been identified at that point but she chose to decline 
its offer and continued to drive the car so she must take some responsibility for the 
condition of the car; and
Miss C has asked to reject the car but when she raised her complaint she requested 
that repairs be completed at another garage as she did not trust the dealers garage 
and the offer of inspection and repair was still available from the dealer when it 
issued its final response letter - which was fair and reasonable and it believes that 
Miss C doesnt have the right to reject the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Specialist Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss C was about eight years old, had been driven for 
more than 68,000 miles and had a price of £3,631;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Miss C returned the car to the dealer in January 2020, less than a month after it had 
been supplied to her, because of a noise issue and the dealer replaced a wheel 
bearing  but Miss C says that it didnt deal with the issue and that the car continued 
to be noisy so she stopped using it in April 2020;
she returned the car to the dealer in June 2020 because of the issues with it and she 
says that the dealer told her that there was a water leak which it wouldnt repair so 
she took the car to another garage which identified an oil leak and that the head 
gasket needed to be replaced; 
Specialist Motor Finance says that the dealer said that it would need to strip the car 
down to confirm the problem, which was a possible water leak, and further 
investigation would be required of the oil leak but that she shouldnt drive the car until 
the fault had been diagnosed; 
Specialist Motor Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in February 2021  and the inspection report, which recorded the cars 
mileage as 70,953, says that there was a noise issue, excessive white smoke from 
the exhaust and evidence of the cylinder head gasket breaching and it concluded 
that the car was not in a durable condition at the point of sale;
Miss C and the dealer have given very different accounts of what happened when 
she returned the car to it in June 2020 but shed complained to the dealer about the 
noise issue in January 2020, it had attempted to repair that issue by replacing a 
wheel bearing but Miss C says that the noise issue has continued and the 
independent expert confirmed that there was a noise issue with the car when it was 
inspected;
the dealer has accepted that there are other issues with the car, another garage has 
identified an oil leak on the car and that the head gasket needs to be replaced and 
the independent expert said that there was excessive white smoke from the exhaust 
and evidence of a cylinder head gasket breaching;
Miss C returned the car to the dealer in January and June 2020  within six months 
of it being supplied to her - and Specialist Motor Finance says that the cars mileage 
when it was supplied to her was 68,600 and the mileage at the time of the inspection 
was 70,953  so Miss C had only been able to use the car to drive about 2,300 miles;I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss C because of the issues with it;
when Miss C complained to Specialist Motor Finance she wanted it to pay for the car 
to be repaired  but its clear from Specialist Motor Finances e-mail to the dealer that 
she then said that she wanted to reject the car; and
the dealer had an opportunity to repair the car in January 2020 and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for the car to now be repaired  I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Specialist 
Motor Finance to allow Miss C to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Specialist Motor Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Miss C  both at no cost to her. I find that it should also remove 
any information about the agreement that its recorded on her credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Miss C part-exchanged a car which had a value of 
£100 and was used as a deposit. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Specialist 
Motor Finance to refund the deposit of £100 to Miss C and to pay interest on that amount. 
Miss C has only been able to use the car to drive about 2,300 miles, and she says that she 
stopped using it in April 2020. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Specialist Motor 
Finance to refund to Miss C any monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since the end of March 2020  and that it should pay interest on the amounts to be refunded. 
I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the payments that she made before then 
as payment for the use that shes had from the car. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss C. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Specialist Motor Finance to pay her £150 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
Miss C says that the car has been parked on a relatives drive but the drive is being re-laid 
and that shell have to pay for the car to be moved. I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Specialist Motor Finance to reimburse Miss C for any cost that she incurs to have the car 
moved  but shell need to provide it with an invoice for that cost.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and I order Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss C  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss C the deposit of £100 that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Miss C any monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since the end of March 2020.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Reimburse Miss C for any cost that she incurs to have the car moved  but shell 
need to provide Specialist Motor Finance with an invoice for that cost.6. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Miss Cs credit file.
7. Pay £150 to Miss C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Specialist Motor Finance must give Miss C a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman