DRN-1789578
The complaint
J complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited has acted fraudulently in respect of loans 
he had with it.
What happened
In 2013, two loans were taken out with Provident in Js name. Several years later, he 
contacted Provident to say that he didnt take out the loans. He also said that the signatures 
on the loan documentation are inconsistent and that his rights under data protection 
legislation had been breached by Provident.
Provident responded to say that there was no evidence of fraudulent activity and that while J 
was unhappy with an investigation by one of its field investigation officers, it couldnt provide 
the witness statement where it contained information about others.
J referred his complaint to this service  adding that a debt had been passed to a recovery 
agent and that his credit file had been damaged. He also gave other reasons why he felt that 
the loans here would be unenforceable  some of which related to the language the 
agreements used.
Our investigator looked at Js complaint, but didnt think Provident had handled this situation 
unfairly or that it should do anything else. She said that the loans both looked to have been 
signed and dated by J and that, while J had concerns about the language used in the 
applications, these both clearly explained what was expected of J. While Provident hadnt 
provided the field officers statement, she didnt feel this had affected Js ability to bring his 
complaint to us.
In terms of the impact on Js credit file, she noted that where a customer hasnt made their 
repayments under an agreement, debts can be passed onto a recovery agent as they were 
here.
Mr J disagreed  providing further comments on why he felt the agreements were void in 
his view. So the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The majority of the points that J has made here revolve around why these loan agreements 
arent enforceable  or as he says void. Hes given a variety of reasons why he thinks this 
 focusing on technicalities around the language and grammar used in them.
It may help if I explain that only a court can decide is an agreement is enforceable or not  
as thats ultimately a legal consideration. This service doesnt have the same powers as a 
court and so its not for us to decide whether agreements are enforceable, or can be 
considered void for any of the reasons hes given. Instead, were a quick and informal 
service, here to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of individual 
disputes.
So while Ive considered all of Js points around the language used in the agreements, along 
with his comments and annotations on them  I have to agree with our investigator here. I 
too think the agreements are clearly written and explain the terms of the loans in the way Id 
expect. I cant see any reasons that the language and grammar used in these agreements 
mean that Provident shouldnt have relied on them to seek repayments for the associated 
lending provided under them.
I realise that J says that the signatures here are inconsistent and that he didnt agree to the 
second loan. Provident doesnt accept thats the case and I can see why. The application 
information from J certainly seems to have been completed by him, with the documentation 
showing that the relevant agent from Provident was in attendance when these were signed. 
This agent wouldve verified his identity and asked for his signature.
J had also taken a loan with Provident before and if he really hadnt taken this second loan 
out, I dont know why he would have made payments to it, or waited so long to make a 
complaint to Provident over eight years later. So taking everything into account here, I think 
its fair that Provident has sought repayment from him under the terms of these agreements. 
That means that, where Provident may have sold or passed these debts to third party 
recovery agents, I think it was entitled to do that where payments may not have been made 
in line with the agreements. And it wouldve been entitled to record information relating to the 
conduct of these loans on Js credit file too.
Beyond this  I havent seen any evidence that Provident has done anything wrong here in 
how its handled this dispute. Its explained why it hasnt been able to provide the field 
officers report and the explanation its given is a fair one. In any event, J has still been able 
to dispute this with both Provident and this service. So I dont think hes been disadvantaged 
by this. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that Provident has handled Js data in a way 
that has unfairly impacted him. So there are no grounds that I can ask Provident to take any 
action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman