DRN-3123486
The complaint
Miss F complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and the way they 
managed her claim for repairs to her motorhome.
What happened
On 3 February 2021, Miss F called RSA to make a claim on her motor insurance policy. Her 
motorhome had been stolen and recovered by the police with damage that required repair.
Once the police had agreed to release Miss Fs motorhome, RSA explained they didnt have 
any approved garages who had the expertise to complete this kind of repair work. But the 
first repairer was found, who Ill refer to as N. So, RSA instructed an independent engineer, 
who Ill refer to as H, to inspect Miss Fs motorhome. H were unable to provide a full report 
and cost of repairs initially, as N werent able to complete all of the repair work needed. Miss 
F suggested a second repairer where she originally purchased the motorhome, who Ill refer 
to as E. E agreed to complete the second part of the repair and following this, H was able 
to provide their full report in May. Once this report had been received, RSA approved the 
repair work the following day.
Unfortunately, it took some time for N to complete the repairs as they were awaiting parts 
that had been ordered from Germany. During this time, Miss F chased RSA for updates and 
raised concerns about the length of time the claim was taking to conclude. A manager from 
RSA called Miss F to explain they were unable to impact the length of time it took for parts to 
be received but arranged for a handler to chase N. 
At the end of July, N confirmed the repairs had been completed. But they wouldnt allow 
Miss Fs motorhome to be transported to E until theyd received payment from RSA. Miss F 
was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss F was unhappy with the length of time the claim had taken up until this point. And she 
was unhappy that RSA hadnt paid N, meaning her motorhome couldnt be transported for 
the second part of the repair. She was also unhappy that shed needed to arrange the 
repairs and that RSA didnt have approved repairers in the first place. So, Miss F wanted to 
be compensated for the time shed been without the motorhome, refunded for the insurance 
premiums shed paid up until this point and for her next years insurance to be paid for by 
RSA.
RSA responded and upheld the complaint. They explained Miss Fs repairs were of a 
specialist nature so they didnt have approved repairers for this. But they pointed to the 
terms of the policy which explained they would use a garage appointed by a customer in this 
case. So, they thought theyd acted fairly here. And they didnt think the delays were their 
fault, as the parts delay were out of their control. And they explained N hadnt provided them 
with a payment pack and bank account details for RSA to arrange payment. So again, they 
didnt think this was their fault. 
But they did think theyd failed to update Miss F reasonably throughout the claim and so, 
they offered Miss F £150 to recognise this failure. Miss F remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Whilst the complaint was with us, RSA arranged payment to N and for a separate transport 
company to transport the motorhome to E for the second part of the repairs. But N again 
refused to realise the motorhome as they said they didnt receive payment. So Miss F also 
wanted this to be considered. RSA have provided information that shows N were paid on 23 
September through BACS payment.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the upset 
Miss F wouldve been caused having had her motorhome stolen then out of use for a 
significant period of time while repairs were completed. But she didnt think the delays to 
completing the repairs were the fault of RSA. She thought RSA had acted in line with the 
policy by using Miss Fs choice of repairers and that part delays were out of their control. But 
she agreed RSA had failed to update Miss F fairly and thought the £150 was fair to 
recognise this. 
Miss F didnt agree as her motorhome was still with N at the time the view was issued. But 
our investigator explained RSA had paid N so thought it was Ns decision to keep hold of the 
motorhome and because of this, she didnt think RSA were responsible for this delay. Miss F 
didnt agree as she thought RSA had arranged for the transport company to attend before 
RSA had paid N. As Miss F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss F. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting for Miss F to find her motorhome had been stolen. And that it had 
been damaged once it had been recovered. I can appreciate Miss F took out her insurance 
policy with RSA to ensure situations like this were made easier if they ever did occur. So, 
when the repair process took longer than Miss F anticipated, I can understand why shed be 
unhappy with this and believe RSA were responsible. 
I dont dispute Miss F had been without her motorhome for a period of time so shes been 
prevented from using it. And I recognise during this time, its remained insured. So, I can 
understand why Miss F feels as though shes lost of financially and is looking to recover 
these costs. But for me to say RSA need to offer something more than the £150 theyve 
already suggested, Id need to be satisfied Or, that RSA have failed to act within the terms of 
the policy and that this impacted the claim. Or, that the delays Miss Fs claim has faced are 
due to something RSA did wrong. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether RSA have acted within the terms of the policy Miss F held. 
Miss F is unhappy that RSA were unable to provide a recommended repairer and that 
instead, she needed to find her own repairers which contributed to a delay at the start of the 
claim process. And I recognise this wouldve been inconvenient for Miss F.
But Ive seen the terms of the policy which explains that RSA will look to offer a repair 
through their supplier network where possible but where this is not possible we will agree for you to use your own repairer or supplier. RSA have confirmed due to the specialist 
nature of the repair work they didnt have a repairer on their network. And I dont think this is 
unreasonable, considering Miss Fs vehicle was a motorhome and the proportion of policies 
sold to insure vehicles such as this will be significantly less than a standard car or work 
vehicle. So, I cant say RSA have acted outside the terms of their policy or that it was unfair 
for them to rely on the terms.
Ive then thought about the delays to Miss Fs claim and whether RSA were responsible for 
these. Ive seen it took over three months from the time Miss F reported her motorhome 
stolen to RSA authorising the repairs to begin. This is a significant period of time, so Ive 
thought about this time period carefully. Ive seen the majority of the delays were created 
trying to find a suitable repairer to complete all of the work. Because of this, H were unable 
to complete their assessment report. As Ive explained about, I dont think RSA have done 
anything wrong by not having a recommended repairer in this instance. So, I think it was 
likely to take more time to find a repairer outside of their network.
And from what Ive seen, I think RSA have engaged with Miss F fairly throughout this time. 
RSA initially instructed N but it was N who stated they were unable to complete all of the 
work. Miss F was then able to agree for this work to be completed by E and as soon as this 
was done, RSA passed the details onto H for the report to be completed. And they 
authorised the repairs the day after they received Hs report. So, I think RSA acted fairly and 
reasonably to ensure Miss Fs repairs were authorised as quickly as possible.
Ive then seen that it took time for N to complete the repairs. But this was due to the parts 
that were required and the fact they needed to be ordered in from abroad. The terms of 
RSAs policy explains unfortunately there are sometimes delays in repairers obtaining parts, 
which can cause repairs to be delayed. Please contact Your repairer to establish the length 
of time they require for a full repair. I dont think RSA were able to control the length of time 
it took for N to receive the parts they needed to complete the repair. So, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to hold RSA responsible for this.
But RSA have accepted they couldve proactively updated Miss F more often than they did 
during this time. And, although the terms of the policy state Miss F was responsible for 
obtaining updates from N, I agree that RSA couldve done more to ensure Miss F was aware 
of what was going on. I think this wouldve been frustrating for Miss F and been inconvenient 
for her. But I think the £150 RSA have already offered is a fair one to recognise the impact 
this had on Miss F as it falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
made. So, I dont think RSA need to offer anything more on this occasion.
After N completed the repairs, I can see there was a delay as N refused to release Miss Fs 
motorhome to E until they received payment. But Ive seen no evidence to show that N 
returned RSAs payment pack, or provided their bank details, for almost two months after the 
repairs had been completed. So, I cant say RSA were responsible for this. And I think its 
also worth noting that it was Ns decision to refuse to release the motorhome. I think this is 
an unusual stance for N to take as usually, when work is completed through an insurer, the 
costs associated are invoiced and paid for after the event. Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
RSA had ever suggested to N that they wouldnt receive payment. So, I think these delays 
were caused by N, not RSA.
And Im aware Miss F is unhappy, as of 21 October, her motorhome was still with N. But Ive 
seen evidence to show RSA paid N through BACS transfer on 23 September. So, I wouldve 
expected N to confirm receipt of this in order to allow RSA to arrange the collection of Miss 
Fs motorhome. Miss F says RSA originally arranged for this before the invoice had been 
paid, so N refused to release her motorhome again. But, as Ive explained above, it was Ns 
decision to take this stance during the time when they hadnt provided their bank details in the correct format. So I think the failed collection was Ns responsibility, not RSAs. But Id 
now expect RSA to arrange the collection of Miss Fs motorhome as a matter of urgency to 
prevent any further delays.
Ive also thought about Miss Fs comment surrounding her insurance and the fact shes paid 
a premium for a motorhome shes been unable to use. But, crucially, shes paying a 
premium for an insurance policy shes claimed on to cover the repairs of her motorhome. So, 
I think the policy she holds, and the premium shes paid, have provided a benefit to her even 
though shes been unable to use the motorhome for its intended purpose. So, I dont think 
this should be refunded to her. Nor do I think RSA should cover the costs of Miss Fs new 
policy.
So, although I recognise Miss Fs claim has taken longer than she wouldve liked, I dont 
think this is the fault of RSA. And because of this, I dont think RSA need to offer anything 
more on this occasion. I understand this isnt the outcome Miss F was hoping for and I 
appreciate it doesnt compensate her for her being unable to use the motorhome as shed 
intended. But I hope it explains clearly why I dont think RSA are responsible for this and 
brings Miss F some closure to the issue.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman