DRN-3235701
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account and later increased her credit limit. She says the lending was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms M says she opened the Aqua account in May 2016 and at the time was in financial 
difficulties. She says there was a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded against her and 
she had a number of defaults on her credit file. She also says her mortgage account was in 
arrears. Ms M says Aquas lending was irresponsible and unaffordable. She says her credit 
limit was increased on multiple occasions and would like all interest and charges refunded 
and the CCJ removed.
Aqua says it carried out appropriate checks on Ms Ms application in May 2016 and 
approved a credit limit of £250. It says Ms M told it she was in employment earning £20,000 
a year with access to a further £5,000 a year. Aqua says Ms M did have previous defaults 
registered on her credit file but the last was some 14 months before this application. It says 
there wasnt any recent adverse information on Ms Ms credit file and her unsecured debt 
was £1,100 and her mortgage £30,000. It also says it increased Ms Ms credit limit in 
November 2016 to £900 which was the only increase. Aqua says Ms M told it about financial 
difficulties in September 2017 when she said she had lost her job.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Ms Ms default debt was about £11,000 and her existing debt just over 
£1,000 which was unaffordable on an income of £20,000 a year. The investigator 
recommended Aqua refund all interest and charges and remove any adverse information 
from Ms Ms credit file. She also recommended Aqua pay £100 compensation.
Ms M accepts that view but Aqua does not.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that I didnt 
uphold this complaint.
I said that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of that lending. I also said that I would not expect Aquas checks here, 
as this was a credit facility, to have been as detailed as for example a mortgage application 
but explained that of course appropriate checks must be carried out.
I looked carefully at Aquas records and could see that Ms M declared an income of £20,000 
a year with additional access to £5,000 a year. I could also see that Aqua did check Ms Ms 
credit file and calculated her non-mortgage debt at £1,100 and her mortgage balance at 
£30,000. I was satisfied Aqua also took into account Ms Ms previous defaults and also 
considered the time period from the last default. So, I was satisfied that Aqua did carry out 
checks on Ms Ms application and those checks were reasonable and proportionate.
I appreciated what the investigator said about the previous defaults. But I didnt think it clear 
if Ms M was repaying those balances or had agreed any repayment plans on them. I couldnt 
see any evidence on Ms Ms credit file about any such agreements or that she was repaying 
those balances. So, whilst I accepted that Ms M may have had defaults that totalled over 
£10,000, I had not seen any evidence they were being repaid and thought on balance it was 
unlikely that they were. It follows that I didnt think Aqua made a mistake by not considering 
those in calculating the affordability of the credit card account. I also thought that Aqua was 
reasonably entitled to consider that the last default was registered some time before this 
application. I looked at Ms Ms credit file and I couldnt see any reference to any CCJ 
recorded before May 2016. And I couldnt see that Ms Ms mortgage account was in arrears 
in 2016 but sometime later.
I was satisfied that the decision to approve the account was not irresponsible and that on the 
face of it was affordable. I also thought Aqua approved a very modest credit limit of £250.
I looked at Ms Ms credit card account statements from the account opening until the credit 
limit increase. I appreciated Ms M says the credit limit was increased on multiple occasions, 
but I was satisfied there was one increase on 11 November 2016 from £250 to £900. I could 
see from the account statements before that increase that Ms M managed her account 
appropriately by making required payments and by keeping to the credit limits. I could also 
see that she didnt use the full available balance and on occasions repaid the balance in full. 
So, I didnt think the decision to increase the credit limit was irresponsible or unaffordable 
and I couldnt see any adverse information on Ms Ms credit file at that time that Aqua ought 
to have considered. I thought the overall credit limit was still relatively modest at £900 
compared to Ms Ms income and other debt.
I could see from Aquas customer notes that Ms M told it in September 2017 that she had 
lost her job. I thought it likely it was the loss of Ms Ms job that led to her financial difficulties 
rather than Aquas approval of her credit card application.
Overall, I was satisfied that Aqua carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms 
Ms credit card application. I also thought Ms M managed her account appropriately for some 
time after it was opened which I thought provided further evidence the account was 
appropriate and affordable at the time. I appreciated Ms M was in financial difficulties that 
resulted in CCJs in 2018 but for the reasons I explained I thought they were linked to the 
loss of job. In any event I didnt think it clear if the CCJs were linked to the Aqua account.
Ms M has replied to my provisional decision and says she doesnt agree with it. But she 
hasnt provided any further evidence or comment on the key issues I raised in my provisional 
view such as information about the CCJ, confirmation if the previous default balances are 
being paid, the number of credit limit increases and the mortgage arrears date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I confirm I have looked again at this complaint and would 
have expected Ms M to have provided further evidence or comment on the matters I raised 
in my provisional decision if she disagreed with what I provisionally decided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman