DRN-3944343
The complaint
Mrs R complains about delays assigning, surrendering, and then receiving proceeds from 
investments administered by St James's Place UK plc (SJPUK).
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision for this case last month. I also made some provisional 
decisions for other cases Mrs R and her family raised with us. Mrs R and her family have 
responded to all of these in a single submission. 
Among the points raised, Mrs R and her family are unhappy with the level of detail Ive put in 
my decision. So I think itll help to start by explaining what my decision is  and isnt  
intended to be. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. My decision aims 
to reflect that, by focussing on the crux of a complaint. I may not respond to every point 
thats been raised. And I wont usually give a detailed history of a situation. Ill just explain 
my opinion about a complaint overall, and the key facts Ive seen that lead me to it.
Turning to this specific complaint, the relevant facts begin in July 2020. A financial adviser 
acting for Mrs R sent a letter of authority to SJPUK. The letter would allow the adviser to see 
details about Mrs Rs investments. But SJPUK rejected the letter, saying it had an incorrect 
postcode on it and there was an issue with Mrs Rs signature.
A new letter of authority  now with the correct postcode  was sent in August. SJPUK 
appear to have accepted that one.
Mrs Rs adviser asked for forms to allow the investments to be assigned to other people. But 
SJPUK said they wouldnt send those. It appears SJPUK usually only give those to their 
linked advisers. A complaint followed, which led to SJPUK sending the forms to the adviser.
The completed forms were then sent to SJPUK. The assignment of the investments looks to 
have been backdated to 29 September  the date the forms were signed.
An instruction then followed to surrender Mrs Rs investment. SJPUK say they received that 
on 23 October. A chargeable event certificate tells me the surrender was done on 
26 October.
However, the investments paid monthly amounts to Mrs R. It appears these went ahead on 
28 October. SJPUK took some time to work out what effect this had on the value that should 
have been achieved by the surrender on 26 October, and corrected the payment to Mrs R. 
The proceeds were then sent to Mrs R on 9 November.
Mrs R raised a series of complaints. This decision considers delays in the matters above.
In response, SJPUK noted theyd been inconsistent in accepting and rejecting the letter of 
authority. And they felt they should have been able to send Mrs R her money on 
2 November, rather than 9 November.
SJPUK paid Mrs R a remedy for this that compensated Mrs R for interest at 8% on the 
delayed money. And they paid Mrs R £250 compensation to acknowledge the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mrs R didnt accept this remedy, so she came to us. In response to my provisional decision, 
Mrs R and her family questioned our decision to split the complaints theyd raised into 
separate cases. But Im satisfied that accurately reflects how our jurisdiction applies to the 
complaints as theyve been made. 
The owners of the investments has changed over the years  primarily to improve their tax 
position. I can appreciate the strategy has been driven by Mrs R, but that doesnt change the 
fact the customer of SJPUK for the purposes of our jurisdiction hasnt always been just her. 
I wrote last time that I provisionally upheld this complaint. Some delay had been caused by 
SJPUK. I set out how SJPUK could calculate if that delay had caused any loss for Mrs R, 
and said how to put it right if it had. I also agreed the £250 already paid was suitable to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs R has expressed her disagreement with my assessment of the case. Ive considered the 
points that are relevant to this complaint when making this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reasoning hasnt changed from last time. So Ill largely repeat what I wrote in my 
provisional decision for this final decision. But where it will help to make my reasoning clear 
on a point raised by Mrs R, Ill add to my previous explanation.
Ive considered the delays our investigator discussed in their written view. I can accept some 
of the delays here were caused by things not directly under SJPUKs control.
For example, the incorrect postcode on the letter of authority sent to them by Mrs Rs 
adviser. I wouldnt expect SJPUK to have accepted that document without further enquiries. 
While I appreciate Mrs Rs comment that the source of the error was a letter from SJPUK 
that the new adviser was copying the postcode from , it was still for the writer of the later 
letter  not SJPUK  to ensure it was correct. 
Similarly, I can accept that SJPUK would usually expect an independent adviser to prepare 
their own documents to instruct about making assignments in an investment. SJPUKs role 
here was administrative  to follow the instructions they received  rather than to give advice 
about how to handle the investment.
But as a professional company communicating with another business, Id expect SJPUK to 
be able to explain any issues they had with paperwork efficiently. Had that been done better 
than it was, its likely the request to surrender Mrs Rs investment wouldve come sooner.
How much sooner is hard to know. But I find early September reflects what could have been 
achieved by Mrs R and her adviser if SJPUK had communicated better. To be clear, thats 
saying the surrenders here could have been actioned at the unit values available on 
1 September 2020. Paying the proceeds to Mrs R would then take further time.Putting things right
Ive decided to take the approach SJPUK used when considering the delay from 2 to 
9 November  payment of interest for the period Mrs R was deprived of her money.
Thats in keeping with our published approach in matters like this. A full explanation can be 
found on the Compensation for investment complaints page of our website, under the 
heading Interest where the customer is deprived of money.
Essentially, SJPUK need to work out what value would have been achieved if Mrs Rs 
investment was surrendered on 1 September 2020. They then need to calculate interest on 
that amount for the period 8 September to 9 November. Ill call this the hypothetical value.
This will then need to be compared to the actual value Mrs R received. Thats the money 
sent to her on 9 November 2020, plus the interest payment SJPUK already made to cover 
the delay from 2 to 9 November.
If the hypothetical value is less than the actual value Mrs R received, then the delay hasnt 
caused a loss for Mrs R. If the hypothetical value is higher, then I consider it fair to treat 
Mrs R as having lost out by the excess amount.
For example, if the hypothetical value totals £200 more than the actual value Mrs R 
received, SJPUK should pay Mrs R the £200. On top of that, they should add further interest 
at 8% - from 9 November 2020 to the point the redress payment is made  just on the £200 
excess.
I can see Mrs R has lost all confidence in SJPUK. So they need to make sure they explain 
their calculation of the above in a clear way for her, whether theres been a loss or not. And 
as with the interest payment SJPUK made previously, tax will need to be factored in. SJPUK 
should provide Mrs R with details of any tax payment on request, to allow her to claim that 
back if applicable.
Aside from any financial loss, I can see Mrs R has expressed how much this situation has 
upset her. Ive considered the £250 SJPUK paid her as compensation for this impact though, 
and I find thats suitable.
The situation has clearly been frustrating  Mrs R had plans for this money  but the delays 
here have added a relatively short time to the actual transaction  about eight weeks. And 
this wasnt money Mrs R needed for day-to-day living expenses  it seems to have been 
reinvested almost straight after it left SJPUK. And nor was the money lost or at significant 
risk of being lost. It was just held up in its existing investment.
So with that sort of perspective, the relatively modest sum of £250 acknowledges the impact 
of the delays here on Mrs R. Im not going to direct any further compensation be paid.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about St James's Place UK plc. To put this right, 
they should complete the calculation described above, and compensate Mrs R for any loss 
caused by the delay Ive noted. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 Paul Mellor
Ombudsman