DRN-2648217
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK plc charged him an early repayment charge (ERC), that 
he wasnt told about, when he moved his mortgage to a new property.
What happened
Mr B has had a series of mortgages with Santander. In July 2018, Mr B transferred his 
mortgage at that time to a new five-year fixed term deal. One of the terms of that fixed-rate 
deal was there would be an ERC payable if the mortgage was redeemed before the end of 
that fixed-rate period.
In 2019, Mr B decided to move  hed agreed to sell his existing home for just under 
£210,000 (resulting in a net equity upon sale of just under £145,000) and was purchasing a 
smaller home for just over £120,000. He wished to use some of the equity to clear some 
existing unsecured debts rather than pay for the new home outright, and so approached 
Santander again to discuss his new mortgage options.
He met with a mortgage advisor in branch, and following discussions the advisor provided 
his recommendations to Mr B  which involved porting (transferring) a small proportion of 
his existing mortgage (approximately £20,000) to his new home. However, this would trigger 
Mr B having to pay an ERC on the part of the existing mortgage being redeemed.
A mortgage recommendation report (MRR) confirming this was sent to Mr B by Santanders 
mortgage advisor, but it was sent to an incorrect address, and Mr B says he never received 
this. Mr B also says it was never explained to him that hed have to pay an ERC, and had he 
known this hed have simply ported the whole of his previous mortgage balance to his new 
property. So, Mr B complained to Santander.
Santander said their records showed the ERC was discussed and referred to the detailed 
information contained in the MRR as evidence of this, and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to us  he said he wants the ERC to be 
reversed/refunded.
Responding to enquiries made by one of our investigators, Santander explained it was made 
clear in 2018, when Mr B took out the five-year fixed deal, that an ERC would apply during 
the following five-year period. They said this was made clear in the mortgage conversion 
offer letter sent to Mr B (to the correct address) at that time.
Furthermore, Santander said theyd sent a redemption statement to Mr Bs conveyancing 
solicitor a week prior to the sale completing in November 2019, which also made clear there 
was an ERC payable. Santander believed this showed Mr B had been sufficiently notified 
about the ERC. Our investigator agreed, and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Unhappy 
with this, Mr B asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, and so its been 
passed to me to consider.  
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2021, in which I said as follows:
I want to begin by looking at what Mr B was told about the ERC when he took out the 2018 
mortgage. Looking at Santanders July 2018 conversion offer letter to Mr B  sent to the 
correct address  it clearly sets out (at page 6) the circumstances regarding when an ERC 
would be paid, and how it would be calculated. The ERC was a feature of the mortgage that 
Mr B chose when he applied online for the 2018 mortgage. So, Im satisfied that Mr B was 
aware, or certainly ought to have reasonably been aware, that an ERC would apply if this 
mortgage was repaid before the fixed-rate period ended.
The next thing to consider is what happened when Mr B approached Santander to discuss 
moving home in 2019. Mr B met with a Santander mortgage advisor in his local branch. I can 
see from Santanders file that these discussions appear to have been detailed. The 
documents record the issue of the ERC, amongst many other things, was discussed during 
this meeting  although I appreciate Mr B is adamant no discussions took place. I note too 
Mr B raised a complaint to Santander about the ERC being charged within days of moving to 
his new home, after being contacted (I believe by his conveyancing solicitor) to ask for the 
ERC to be paid. I think the timing of this contact does tend to support Mr Bs recollection of 
events to a point  he seems to have complained as soon as he became aware.
But whilst Im not in any way questioning Mr Bs genuine recollection of events, I think 
Santanders internal records  particularly an internal advice note recorded at the time of the 
July 2019 meeting  suggests its more likely than not the ERC matter was discussed. There 
are significant amounts of detail contained within this real-time document  in addition to 
the ERC, it records primary and second income sources, a potential pension lump sum that 
may help reduce/clear the mortgage in future years, the priority to clear unsecured debts, 
and a wish to have a new mortgage payment of less than £300. A lot was clearly discussed, 
and because of this it would be understandable if the ERC issue didnt register with Mr B at 
the time. And Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of the information in this document either.
But the issue then becomes how Santander reported the outcome of the recommendation to 
Mr B. The advisor, as he was required to do, compiled the MRR at the beginning of August 
2019, and sent this to Mr B. However, it was sent to the wrong address, and Mr B never 
received this. Looking at the address the advisor used, Im not surprised. There was then a 
four-month gap until the sale/purchase took place and the ERC was mentioned again, which 
would even further dilute Mr Bs memory of what was discussed at the meeting.
Santander have told us they believe Mr B was made aware of the ERC because theyd 
notified his conveyancing solicitor of the ERC the week before completion was due to take 
place. I disagree. I think Santander was obliged to confirm to Mr B about the ERC, in writing, 
at the time of the recommendation, and it isnt fair or reasonable for them to rely on their 
communication to his solicitor  days prior to completion and four months after the meeting 
with the advisor - as evidence they had provided Mr B written details of the ERC.
Santander also told us as Mr B was aware of the ERC when he took out the new mortgage  
which I agree he likely was  that essentially means he had sufficient knowledge of the ERC 
being charged when the mortgage was reduced/ported nearly 18 months later. Again, I dont 
agree  all this means is that Mr B was likely aware of the existence of the ERC when he 
took out the initial mortgage deal. It doesnt provide any confirmation that he knew what 
exactly he was going to be charged nearly 18 months later.So, taken together, Im not satisfied Mr B was provided with a clear written explanation, as 
part of the recommendation prepared by Santanders advisor, regarding what ERC charge 
he would have to pay. But in this case, on balance, I dont think that means Santander have 
to take any steps to repay the ERC to Mr B. Ill explain why.
As Ive said above, Santanders file records that one of Mr Bs key outcomes, as part of the 
move, was to reduce his mortgage payment to no more than £300 per month (from £500 per 
month before the move). And that he was downsizing so that he could release sufficient 
equity to repay all of his unsecured debts (which cost nearly £700 per month at the time).
I think this is an important point to recognise here. Its clear Mr B could have purchased his 
new home outright from the sale of his previous home (£123,000 new purchase price, 
against equity upon sale of just under £145,000) if he chose to, but this wasnt an option 
because he wanted to use some of the equity to clear his £700 per month unsecured debts. 
Which means hed have had to finance his new home with the aid of some sort of mortgage.
Mr B made it very clear to our investigator that, had he known about the ERC, hed simply 
have ported his mortgage to the new property. This option would also have allowed all his 
unsecured debts to be cleared. But hed have been left with mortgage payments of nearly
£500  and as Ive referred to, this is something the notes suggest he didnt want. And this 
option would have left him with a sizeable chunk of remaining equity, which is also 
something Santanders notes say he didnt want.
It seems the only workable option for Mr B to achieve what appears to have been his twin 
requirements  clear unsecured debts and be left with a small mortgage costing no more 
than £300 per month  was the one the advisor recommended. That being the case, I think 
had Santanders MRR letter been sent to the correct address, Mr B would more likely than 
not have proceeded with the recommendations contained within it. Which means moving to 
his new home with the aid of a reduced mortgage, and with that incurring the ERC that was 
properly due in that event. And its for these reasons that I dont think its fair or reasonable 
to ask Santander to repay any of the ERC they charged.
That said, I do think Santanders failure to send a written summary of their advisors 
recommendation  as they were required to do  has caused Mr B unnecessary and 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Had they done so Mr B would have been aware of the 
ERC from the outset - so likely avoiding the distress caused by the ERC confusion at the 
time of completion. I think Santander should compensate Mr B for this distress. Whilst 
putting a value on distress and inconvenience is not an exact science, I think a figure of 
£125 fairly recognises and addresses the distress experienced by Mr B.
Responses to my provisional decision
Whilst Santander have accepted my recommendation, Mr B doesnt accept it. He advises he 
has no recollection of the mortgage advisor telling him about the ERC when he met with him 
in branch in 2019. And he questions the importance of the letter that was sent to his correct 
address in July 2018, when he took out the initial mortgage. 
Mr B reiterates that, had he known about the ERC, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
new mortgage  instead hed have ported his existing mortgage to the new property, and 
used the available equity to spend on various home improvements. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, my view remains the same. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr B, but Ill 
explain why I wont be changing my mind. 
Firstly, I want to reiterate why I think the July 2018 conversion letter is important. This letter, 
sent to the correct address after Mr B took out his 2018 mortgage product online, clearly 
states an ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid (or reduced) in the first five years. Mr B 
says he doesnt remember this, but I dont think this is the key point here. The fact remains 
the 2018 mortgage had an ERC that would be applied in such circumstances, and Im 
satisfied Mr B would have likely been aware of this when he took the 2018 mortgage out  
the letter confirming this was sent to the right address at the time. So, any change to this 
mortgage in the next five years would attract an ERC, and I dont think Santander have been 
unreasonable in applying it in this case.
Which brings me to what happened in 2019 when Mr B spoke with the advisor. I appreciate 
that Mr B says he doesnt recall the advisor mentioning the ERC charge, and that Mr B tells 
me he would rather have used the equity to pay for repairs and upgrades to his home - 
rather than reduce the mortgage balance when he purchased his new home. Whilst Im not 
questioning what Mr B says, I must consider what the evidence here shows me. 
As Ive mentioned in my provisional decision, Ive seen very detailed notes taken by the 
advisor at the time of the 2019 meeting  covering dual income and expense calculations, 
the cost of existing borrowing to be repaid, and even the effect of the loss of income 
previously generated by a lodger. The detail is considerable, and so Im persuaded these 
notes most likely represent a fair and detailed record of what was discussed at this meeting. 
There isnt any mention within these notes that Mr B was considering refurbishments or 
repairs, or of any need to retain a large cash sum to pay for any such works. 
In fact, the notes record that Mr B didnt want to retain a large cash sum, and that his wish 
was to reduce his mortgage payment to £300 per month. This could only effectively be 
achieved by using equity to reduce the mortgage balance in the way that happened here, 
meaning an ERC woud be charged which the notes suggest was discussed. So, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I still think its more likely than not the ERC was discussed at the 
meeting  although Id understand if this didnt properly register with Mr B at the time given 
the quantity of information discussed. 
However I do appreciate how frustrating it was that the advisor sent his recommendation to 
an incorrect address. This was a clear mistake, but for the reasons Ive already mentioned I 
dont think Mr B experienced any financial loss  or paid an ERC that would otherwise have 
been avoided  because of this mistake. Ive already recognised the distress caused by this 
mistake in my provisional decision  asking Santander to pay Mr B £125 compensation for 
this, which theyve agreed to pay. My final decision
I uphold this complaint, in part, and require Santander UK plc to pay Mr B £125 
compensation for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman