DRN-3570369
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
Mr C acquired a new car under a 36 month hire agreement with MBFS in September 2017. 
Under the agreement, Mr C was required to pay an initial rental of £1,293.21 followed by 35 
monthly rentals of £517.28. The agreement was extended for seven months until          
March 2021. 
In May 2021, MBFS wrote to Mr C and let him know that when the car was returned, it had 
travelled 74,279 miles. However, the agreed annual mileage under the hire agreement was 
15,000 miles, with a further allowance of 8,750 miles for the additional seven months Mr C 
had the car. So MBFS said Mr C had exceeded the agreed mileage by 20,529 miles. It told 
Mr C he was required to pay £2,217.13 to reflect the additional miles the car had travelled.
Mr C complained to MBFS and said the car supplied to him had issues with it and he had 
returned it in excellent condition. He said he was disappointed to receive an invoice for 
excess mileage charges, as the issues with the car had cost him more than this to repair. 
MBFS issued its response to Mr Cs complaint in June 2021. It said it had correctly 
calculated the excess mileage it charged Mr C. And it suggested Mr C contact an alternate 
department to raise his concerns about the quality of the car supplied to him.
In August 2021, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He said the car MBFS supplied 
caused him to have an accident due to an issue with the brakes. He also said the car 
shuddered from supply and so, he didnt think it was fair for MBFS to charge him the whole 
excess mileage charge in light of the issues hed had with the car.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think MBFS had supplied Mr C with a 
car that was of unsatisfactory quality. He said the initial issue occurred nine months after   
Mr C was supplied with the car and at this point, the mileage of the car was 16,000. So he 
didnt think Mr C would have been able to cover that amount of mileage in eight months, if 
the car had been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
Mr C disagreed and said he wanted the investigator to consider whether the brakes were 
faulty, which he says caused him to have an accident. He said he didnt dispute the excess 
mileage calculation, but he said MBFS should waive the charge given the car it had supplied 
caused him to have an accident. 
Our investigator reviewed some further information that was supplied. But he still thought the 
car that MBFS had supplied was of satisfactory quality. He said Mr C hadnt provided any 
supporting information to suggest the brakes were faulty and brakes are considered a wear 
and tear item which would need to be replaced at some point. 
Mr C disagreed and said the dealer wouldnt provide him with the brake disks they removed 
from his car and so, he couldnt obtain any independent evidence. 
As Mr C remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Mr C accepts 
that he is liable for the excess mileage charges. So I havent considered these charges as 
part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr C has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.  
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr C by MBFS under the 
hire agreement was of satisfactory quality. If it wasnt, Ill need to think about what, if 
anything, MBFS needs to do to put things right. 
Quality of goods supplied under the agreement
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. So our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. MBFS is the supplier of the car under this type of 
agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire agreements. Under a hire agreement, 
there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, considering any relevant 
factors  such as the age, price, mileage and description. The CRA says aspects of the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition alongside other things such as 
their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, durability, freedom from minor defects and 
safety.
The car Mr C acquired was brand new. And he was paying around £500 a month to lease it. 
So, I think a reasonable person would have high standards for the condition of the car when 
it was supplied and would have expected trouble free motoring for a significant time.
In this case, Mr C says he reported a juddering whilst braking in the car to a dealership local 
to him, who Ill refer to as T, shortly after he acquired the car. 
A job sheet from January 2019 has been provided, which suggests that Mr C visited the 
supplying dealer, who Ill call S, in September 2017. But it doesnt confirm why Mr C visited 
or what he told S at the time. So its unclear whether Mr C reported a juddering with the car 
shortly after acquiring it. But even if I accept he did report the issue, the dealer found no 
issue with it at the time and Mr C doesnt appear to have had an issue with the car until 
sometime later. So I think its unlikely the car had a fault with it when Mr C says he first 
reported it.
Mr C told T that the brakes jumped when he pressed lightly, around eight months after he 
acquired the car. Ive seen a copy of the job sheet from the time. The technician didnt 
mention that a fault had been found, but they did replace all four brake disks and their brake 
linings. Ive also seen a copy of the damage history for the car from the time. It states that 
the brake disk had an issue with it in May 2018 and a damage code is listed next to it. So I 
think its likely there was some kind of issue with the brakes at this point, despite the 
technician saying there wasnt. Having said this, the car had travelled around 16,000 miles. 
So whilst I think there was a fault with the brakes at this point in time, I dont think its likely 
the car had a fault with it at the time it was supplied to Mr C, given the mileage he was able 
to travel in it, in the amount of time he had it. So I think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr C.In January 2019, Mr C reported the same issue with the brakes juddering to S. At the time, 
the mileage was around 27,000 miles. The notes show that the front brake pads and brake 
disks of the car were replaced under warranty. The notes also show the fault code is one of 
the same codes that was identified when the cars brake pads were replaced previously. 
There is also an email from a dealer which confirms that the brakes and disks were replaced 
to resolve the brake judder. So I think its likely the car had a fault at this point. However,    
Mr C was able to travel around 11,000 miles in the car in around seven months, since the 
car was previously repaired. And so even though I accept these issues occurred, I dont 
think they made the car of unsatisfactory quality, given the amount of miles Mr C was able to 
cover. 
I also note that both the repairs to the brakes were carried out under warranty at no cost to 
Mr C. So Mr C hasnt incurred any costs as a result of the repairs being carried out to the 
brakes. And since the repair in January 2019, Mr C hasnt mentioned that there were any 
further issues with the brakes and he was able to travel around a further 47,000 miles in the 
car. So even though I accept there were faults with the car, these were repaired under 
warranty at no cost to Mr C. 
Ive gone on to consider what Mr C has said about the accident that took place. Mr C says 
the issue with the brakes caused him to have an accident in March 2018. The accident took 
place before any repairs were carried out to the car. 
Mr C says the car wasnt able to stop within a distance that it should have. Hes provided this 
service with an invoice to confirm what repairs needed to be carried out following the 
accident. So I have no doubt that the accident took place. But Mr C hasnt provided any 
supporting information to suggest why the accident took place, despite this service asking 
him to. Therefore, on balance, Im not persuaded that the accident took place as a result of 
an issue with the brakes, as Mr C hasnt provided any supporting information that suggests 
an issue with the brakes caused or contributed to the accident taking place.
Overall, I think the car supplied to Mr C was of satisfactory quality and so it follows that I 
dont think MBFS need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman