DRN-3828695
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly requiring repayment of a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr K opened a business account with Lloyds in February 2020 for his sole trader business. 
In May 2020, there was a successful application in the name of Mr Ks business for a 
£40,000 BBL, and Lloyds transferred the loan funds to the business account. Nearly £25,000 
was then moved over two days from the business account to accounts with other banks.
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
Later, Mr K complained to Lloyds, saying he didnt know anything about the BBL until May 
2021, when the bank wrote to him requiring repayment of the loan. Mr K said that hed 
closed the business bank account in March 2020 and at the same time informed the bank 
about personal documents that had recently been stolen. Mr K said hed never received any 
details of the business account from the bank. He said the BBL had been taken out by a 
fraudster.
The bank didnt change its position and Mr K therefore referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence and concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
Its not disputed that Mr K opened the business account. Although Mr K said he didnt 
receive anything from the bank, the account was open and used  so in effect Mr K 
was claiming that its use was commandeered by a third party.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that it had been explained how a fraudster could 
commandeer Mr Ks business account. The bank sent statements to Mr K from 
March 2020 onwards. The investigator thought Mr K was aware the account was 
active and he was the likely user.
There was no supporting evidence that Mr K had closed the account or reported the 
theft of documents. 
The investigator thought Mr K was aware of the loan from the outset and it was likely 
that he had use of the funds. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. He made the following points, in summary:
He repeated that hed closed the business account in branch and the assistant had 
confirmed the closure at the time. 
Mr Ks business had just started, so there would have been no turnover figure for the 
calculation of the BBL amount.
Lloyds failed to make proper checks when it approved the BBL. Had it done so, it 
could have prevented money going out. The bank has a duty to protect its clients. Mr 
K is not party to the contract and the bank has no legal right to demand repayment of 
the money he has not received.
The banks correspondence showed three account numbers in his name. How is it 
possible to have three accounts opened in these days when banks are usually very 
thorough at checking potential clients?
His statements from 2021 dont show anything about a BBL.
Lloyds letters give different figures for the amount it is seeking to recover  
£40,000.00 in one and £24,830.03 in another.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Mr K maintains that his business account was closed in March 2020. But the statements 
show that the account remained open, and that transactions and account operations 
continued up to mid-May 2020, after which the bank put restrictions on further use of the 
account. Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence from Mr K or from bank records to show 
that Mr K requested closure of the account or reported any lost documents to the bank. For 
these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr K closed the account in March 2020.
Im satisfied that Lloyds sent Mr K information about the bank account and the BBL, to his 
address and to his phone. From the evidence, I cant see how a third party could have taken 
control of Mr Ks business account, applied for the BBL and spent the funds without Mr Ks 
knowledge. 
Mr K is correct that the bank required turnover information for the loan application, but the 
BBL scheme was designed specifically for the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic, 
and applicants were required to give only a self-declared turnover figure for their business. 
Thats what happened with the BBL application in this case.
As for the three account numbers which Lloyds listed in July 2021, the first was the business 
account, the second was the BBL and the third was a business savings account. The 
savings account was linked to the business account and there had been few transactions on 
it  only £12 in and £12 out in April 2020. Its not unusual for savings accounts to be 
provided alongside business accounts and I dont think the bank did anything wrong here.
Mr K has sent us documents, which the bank sent to him in 2021 and which dont mention 
the BBL. But those documents were statements of charges for the bank accounts and an 
account summary for the savings account, and I wouldnt expect to see any mention of the 
BBL on them. In any event, I dont think theres any doubt that the BBL had been agreed and 
drawn down.  Taken all together, the evidence doesnt, in my view, support a version of events in which a 
third party applied for the BBL and carried out the account operations and transactions 
without Mr Ks knowledge or consent. For this reason, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in pursuing Mr K for repayment of the BBL.
Mr K has asked about the size of the debt. In a letter in June 2021 Lloyds did require 
repayment of the £40,000 BBL. But there was a positive balance of £15,169.97 on the 
business account and in a letter in October 2021 the bank gave a net figure for the total sum 
owed as £24,830.03.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman