DRN-3867782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy about the handling and settlement of their water damage claim 
by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim following an escape of water. Mr and Mrs D said several rooms 
were damaged. Aviva inspected the damage and agreed to deal with some work. It said this 
was only the damage caused by the leak and it said some of the other areas claimed for 
werent water damaged during this claim.
The areas in dispute are the conservatory floor and door, the kitchen floor, and a wet room. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved Mr and Mrs D brought their claim to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Aviva had acted reasonably. He noted 
that Aviva didnt think the kitchen floor needed to be removed, But Mr D had it removed. He 
accepted Avivas point that the wet room had suffered no damage so wasnt covered. Our 
investigator concluded that Aviva had acted reasonably regarding the conservatory floor and 
door.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said hed overheard conversations between contractors where the kitchen floor was 
discussed. He said it was clear the contractors felt the floor needed to be removed and 
replaced. He also said that to highlight the point a contractor had jumped on the floor just to 
show how unstable it was.
Kitchen floor
Aviva said, this is not something that we will consider under the terms of the insurance 
claim because it was not damaged by the escape of water. It continued Mr D has taken it 
upon himself to remove this. Having reviewed the pictures it is our opinion that there is 
inadequate reinforcement/support to the floor structure, and the floor has gradually 
deteriorated over time. There is rust evidenced in the steel bars which would not occur as a 
result of a one-off leak. Aviva concluded As you are aware the policy does not cover poor 
workmanship, maintenance or any form of betterment.
Aviva said its contractor completed the strip out works to the claim damaged areas. But 
when the contractor returned to review the kitchen for reinstatement it found Mr and Mrs D 
had removed 50% of the kitchen floor. Aviva confirmed this work wasnt included within its 
contractors scope of works as it wasnt damaged. Aviva claimed during a visit that the 
Insured has started drilling up the concrete floor because he said it was rotting from the 
underside.
Avivas contractor did replace the vinyl flooring in the kitchen along with the clay tiles and 
battens. But it confirmed it wouldnt replace the sub floor and Mr D removed this himself. 
Avivas contractors said the block and beams of the sub floor were undamaged. It confirmed 
that it is perfectly feasible for water to damage a ceiling below but not the sub floor.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr D said. But I cant see any evidence from the file details I 
have that suggest Aviva approved the removal of some of the kitchen floor. I would expect to 
see confirmation of this within the claim details for me to accept that it was reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs D to take action regarding the floor removal. But even if Aviva did want this work 
done then I would have thought it would have asked its own contractors to do it. Theres no 
record of that.
Wet room/WC
Aviva said the wet room was not affected by the escape of water and any works in here 
would be private and not part of the insurance claim. I have received some pictures of the 
wet room at the time of their visit which shows the wet room in poor condition.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Aviva acted incorrectly when it excluded the 
damage to the wet room. Ive not seen any other expert evidence to refute what Aviva has 
said on this point.
Wet room/WC ceiling
Aviva had a change of expert during the claim and the second expert said The ceiling in the 
downstairs WC has previously been agreed to be covered prior to my involvement. I have 
checked my pictures of the area of ceiling that requires to be erected, and the battens Mr Ds 
builder installed are not fixed adequately or secured to the new floor above. Therefore, [our 
contractor] will not be able to install the new ceiling. I can however provide a cash settlement 
offer for this aspect and Mr D can use his own builder to complete this. Once these issues 
were resolved Avivas contractor did the ceiling work. It confirmed it wouldnt be offering a 
cash settlement. Ive no need to make a finding on this point as Aviva has dealt with it.
Rear door/raised floor levels in the conservatory
Aviva said Mr D advised he had removed the door and door frame up off the external 
landing area externally. Mr D advised he did this after the claim was registered, but before 
Avivas contractor visited. The date of the incident was the 15th October 2020 and the 
contractor visited on the 3rd November. Mr D explained that the door used to open inwards, 
but he changed this to outwards. Looking at the frame during my visit I could not see any 
fixing holes to suggest the door ever opened inwards, or any other evidence to suggest that 
the door/frame had been moved. Aviva said it would consider further evidence such as 
photos on this point but said based on this it wasnt damaged as part of the claim. It said 
these were private works.
I think Aviva was clear in what it said here. Theres no evidence to dispute what it has noted 
and theres no detail to link this to the water damage claim.
Private workAviva continued It was also noted that the patio doors leading from the kitchen into the 
conservatory had been removed and an internal wooden door fitted. This is something that 
Mr D wanted done, and this was completed privately and didnt form part of the insurance 
claim. The original floor in the conservatory was concrete with the step-down leading from 
the kitchen at approximately 2.5 inches. As part of the private works, it looks like a wooden 
battened floor has been fitted in the conservatory on top of the concrete. It is likely this was 
done so the floor was level leading from the kitchen to the conservatory where the patio 
doors were removed, and the wooden internal door fitted were level and continuous. As 
Mr D wanted this done and it didnt form part of the insurance works any change in level in 
the conservatory is not the responsibility of insurers, but that of Mr D. Unfortunately, the 
insurance will not pay for any steps to be made outside on the external landing area.
Aviva said any issues or questions regarding the private works are between Mr and Mrs D 
and the contractor. It said this was not part of the insurance claim. I think thats reasonable.
Regarding the overall claim Aviva said it dealt with all the work that was part of the water 
damage. It said other areas Mr and Mrs D were looking to claim for were either pre-existing 
damage or additional works.
I think all the details I have seen suggest that Aviva acted reasonably in the way it handled 
and settled this claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman