DRN-2900084
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in September 2011. 
Mr C paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr C says 
that he was told that he had to take out this account in order to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mr C did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Cs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr C, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I started by thinking about whether Mr C was aware the URCA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that he 
was. I say this because he had previously had a fee-free bank account that had an arranged 
overdraft facility on it with Halifax. So, I think that Mr C wouldve been aware that free 
accounts generally existed and were an option for him. 
I note that Mr C has explained that he took out the account in order to get an overdraft 
facility. But I cant see that his arranged overdraft limit changed at the time of this sale as he 
had held and used an overdraft prior to this upgrade. So, I dont think that its likely that Mr C 
was told that this was the only way to get an overdraft. 
Overall, I think that it is more likely that Mr C was told that by upgrading his account he 
would be able to get a fee-free overdraft. This seems to be supported by Mr C saying in 
response to our initial assessment that he was told that if he upgraded he would get a fee-
free overdraft  which is correct.
To clarify, one of the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned overdraft of 
up to £300, though I note that this was subject to application and Mr C did not apply for an 
overdraft of this size until some months after the upgrade. This means that if a consumer 
stayed below the £300 overdraft limit, or their agreed limit if lower, they wouldnt have to pay 
the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. The monthly fee for the URCA was £15 at the time. So, as 
long as Mr Cs account remained within the £300 fee-free portion of the overdraft (or his 
agreed limit if lower) for 15 days or more each month, he was financially better off by having 
the URCA. 
I note that Mr C feels that being told that taking out the URCA would allow him to get a fee 
free overdraft means that the account was mis-sold. He also maintains that as he did not call 
Halifax to upgrade and was calling on an unrelated matter it means his account was mis-
sold. 
I should though explain that the scenario Mr C has outlined is that he called Halifax about an 
unrelated matter, the member of staff highlighted the fee-free overdraft benefit, and Mr C 
agreed to take out the account for this benefit. So I fail to see how this would constitute that 
he was mis-sold the account. Mr C says that he only took out the account for the fee-free 
overdraft benefit but again that was his choice. He had held a fee-free account for many 
years, with an overdraft, prior to the upgrade. If he was willing to upgrade his account - 
knowing how much the account would cost - because of one benefit the account came with 
this was ultimately his decision to make. I understand that, perhaps with the benefit of 
hindsight, he may now feel that it has been poor value for money or mayve been the wrong 
choice. But that doesnt mean that the account was mis-sold.
At the time the account was taken out, the other major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. Mr C went on to use the mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and I can see 
that he contacted the travel insurer. So I think that he was made aware of the other benefits 
and that they couldve been useful to him. But overall, I think that the main benefit that Mr C 
was interested in was the interest and fee-free overdraft facility.
This account was not recommended to Mr C. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr C. But it did need to provide Mr C with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as 
it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr C. I accept that Mr C may 
not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I cant 
see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. Especially as 
I believe that he agreed to the account mainly for the overdraft benefits that it came with.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mr C. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr C the account fees 
that hes been charged whilst hes held the URCA. 
I completely understand that this will be frustrating to Mr C, as he strongly feels that his 
account was mis-sold. But I can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if I 
thought it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
Mr C has mentioned that the overdraft benefit was removed. The terms and conditions of the 
account give Halifax the provision to change and remove benefits, if sufficient notice is 
given. Halifax has explained that this wouldve been communicated to all its customers in a 
letter, the template of which I have seen. So on balance, I think that this wouldve been 
communicated to him. So I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in relation to this.
I should highlight that this decision represents the final stage in this services process. But 
Mr C is free to pursue this matter elsewhere if he so wishes.
My final decisionBecause of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman