DRN-3203043
The complaint
Mr H complains that Accord Mortgages Limited treated him unfairly when it declined his 
application for a mortgage. 
His wife, Mrs H, is representing him in the matter. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr H applied, through a broker, for a mortgage with Accord for around £127,000 
over a term of 16 years. 
Accord began to consider the application and asked the broker for further information over 
the next few months. Around January 2021, it asked questions to see how affordable the 
mortgage might be and it was suggested that removing an outstanding car loan may assist 
in the application being successful.
Accord questioned whether Mr H was in a debt management plan  or had been in the last 
six years. Mr H replied no  as he had said in the initial application. 
Accord said that this contradicted the information on Mr Hs credit file. It cancelled the 
mortgage application and said it didnt meet its lending criteria or risk appetite. 
Mr H complained to Accord. It responded to say that it hadnt done anything wrong as the 
application didnt meet its risk appetite.  Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the matter but didnt think that Accord had treated him unfairly.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are many reasons why a mortgage application might fail and no guaranteed can ever 
be given that it will be successful. 
I can see that this application took a while to consider and that Mr Hs expectations of being 
granted a mortgage were raised when he received a decision in principle (DIP). But this is 
just an initial indication of the amount of borrowing that might be possible  subject to further 
checks.
When deciding whether to lend, providers will undertake a variety of checks and may ask 
additional questions or for further information. It's only once all the checks are completed, 
and a valuation undertaken that a mortgage offer is made.
Mrs H says that they were previously dealing with an underwriter who had accepted the 
application and issued the DIP. It must have been disappointing to have this taken over by a 
different underwriter, but as Ive said I dont consider that at any point the mortgage was 
guaranteed.
Accord asked the broker for more information and ultimately decided not to take the 
application forward and cancelled the planned valuation. I can appreciate that this must have 
been frustrating for Mr H  especially considering his family circumstances. But having 
reviewed the progress of the application, I dont consider that there were any unreasonable 
delays caused by Accord. 
It was also suggested that Mr H could sell his car to reduce his outgoings and make it more 
likely that his application would pass the affordability checks. I do understand that, in 
hindsight, this must have been an inconvenience for Mr H as the application was declined for 
other reasons.  But Im not persuaded that they were told that the mortgage was guaranteed 
if they did this and it was ultimately their decision so I dont think I can fairly hold Accord 
accountable. 
Mrs H has said that they were open and honest from the beginning of the application. There 
seems to me that there was confusion as to whether Mr H had been subject to a debt 
management plan, and Ive no reason to doubt that Mr H answered no in the honest belief 
that he was not. It was later explained that Mr H repaid some debt for a family member. But 
notwithstanding this, Accord declined the application. Whilst I can see the frustration and 
upset this caused, Accord is able to do this. Lenders never have to lend - theyre entitled to 
consider and refuse applications.
I understand that Mrs H believes the application was declined for other reasons. This may be 
the case but regardless of the reason  I dont think its fair to require Accord to grant Mr H a 
mortgage. And whilst I can appreciate Mr Hs frustrations  it is not the role of this service to 
force Accord to lend. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr H but, having considered everything, Im 
afraid I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman