DRN-3631671
Background to the complaint
Mr C complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) will not refund money he lost to an 
investment scam. 
In summary, Mr C was persuaded to trade online in digital assets by someone he received 
an unsolicited text message from in early 2021. This individual, who Ill call M, convinced   
Mr C that he could make considerable profits with a particular investment scheme, having 
shared text messages and video calls with him. The so-called investment opportunity turned 
out to be a scam and Mr C lost all that he paid in, amounting to around £17,000. It came to 
light that M was part of a fraudulent outfit and had deceitfully coerced Mr C all along. 
Mr C complained that Co-op ought to have done more to protect him from losing out to the 
scam. He also said the bank should recover the payments. Co-op didnt uphold the 
complaint, countering that it had followed due process. It explained that it couldnt recover   
Mr Cs money, because the card payments that left his account had been paid to genuine 
exchange platforms. These platforms converted the money into cryptocurrency, before Mr C 
then sent the funds onwards to the so-called investment platform. 
When Mr C referred the case to our service, one of our investigators didnt think that Co-op 
should be held liable for Mr Cs loss. Because Mr C doesnt agree, the matter has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that, although I have only set out the key points, I have 
nonetheless duly read and considered all thats been submitted. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments using his Co-op debit card. The 
payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
Still, Ive considered whether Co-op should have done more to prevent Mr C from falling 
victim to this scam, as there are some situations where a bank should reasonably have had 
a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transaction or set of payments. 
For example, if they were markedly out of character or suspicious for a consumer. 
Having reviewed the transactions, Im not convinced that the payments made before the 
£7,041.94 card payment made on 4 October 2021 were unusual or concerning to the extent 
that I would expect Co-op to have carried out an intervention. They were not so unusual as 
to amount to a significant deviation in the way the account was normally run.
Conversely, when Mr C instructed this particular c.£7,000 card payment, I find that Co-op 
should have taken steps to enquire with him about the nature of what he was doing. The 
payment value in itself represented a significant increase in expenditure in contrast to Mr Cs 
recent spending habits. Whats more, this transaction marked the seventh payment to the 
exchange platform in quick succession on the same day; and Co-op is aware that 
successive payments to the same payee on the same day can often be indicative of 
fraudulent activity. Overall, I think Co-op had grounds to have stepped in with this particular 
payment and asked reasonably probing questions of Mr C.  
Even so, if Co-op had intervened at this stage (or indeed any other point in the sequence of 
transactions) and asked questions about the purpose of the payments Mr C was making, Im 
not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately 
prevented his loss. I say so for two key reasons.
First of all, if Co-op had provided Mr C with a warning about the risk of being scammed, Im 
not persuaded that any further checks he could have carried out would have revealed that 
he was being deceived by a fraudulent operation. Mr C has said himself that there was very 
little negative information about the investment merchant when he was conducting online 
research. The intel available to him was broadly positive and it seems there wouldnt have 
been anything compelling to alert him to the fact that he was being defrauded at the time. 
Further, by Mr Cs own admission, the fabricated trading application/website was extremely 
complex and the digital asset he believed he was trading appears to be a real investment 
option (it was just the scheme itself that was a con). The intricacy of what he was seeing, 
together with the sophistication of the trading software, is something that Mr C has openly 
said he found challenging to see anything untoward with. He described it as having a very 
authentic looking website, with what looked to him to be independent verification from a 
reliable source. It appears that the fraudulent online application was very advanced which 
would make it inordinately difficult to recognise what was legitimate and what wasnt.  
Mr C has prior trading experience; he explained to Co-op that he had invested in 
cryptocurrency before and was somewhat aware of what it entailed and what it looked like to 
trade. He was clearly assured by what he was seeing at the time of making these payments. 
And its logical that he would have taken confidence from his prior experience and familiarity 
with digital assets into any conversation with his bank regarding whether he was sure of the 
legitimacy of what he was paying into. 
In my judgment, all of this makes it probable that Mr C would not have become overly 
incredulous about his plan to invest had the bank made enquiries with him. Especially, when 
he was aware that his money was going to remain in his possession as its initial destination 
was an account in his name with a well-known exchange platform that he had successfully 
tried and tested before.  
Secondly, I must bear in mind the relationship Mr C believed he had with M and the bearing 
this would likely have had on whether he would have still gone ahead with the payments.   
Mr C has conceded that he was romantically linked to this individual, having struck close and 
regular contact over a span of time. Its evident that Mr C built a significant degree of trust, 
no doubt reinforced by the pictures and video calls he was sharing with M. With all this in mind, its fair to say that Mr C regarded M as trustworthy and was relying on 
their relationship when venturing into this scheme. This is significant when coupled with what 
Ive described about the lack of conclusive information available to Mr C to deter him from 
the scam. As I see it, having a close acquaintance promoting something and giving 
assurances that they themselves had profited from it, together with independent research 
not unearthing anything particularly disconcerting, would make it more likely than not that   
Mr C would not have refrained from going any further with the investment even if Co-op had 
warned him about the association between investing in such investment options and scams. 
I also cannot ignore that Mr C may have considered his affiliation with M as a private matter. 
He, understandably, may have been reluctant to delve into detail about how this 
companionship originated if asked by Co-op. According to Mr Cs version of things, the 
conversation only turned to investment once he had been conversing with M for some time. 
As a result, I have to consider that bank staff may not have been put on notice that Mr C had 
been enticed into the supposed investment by a third party  which is a hallmark of 
investment scams that Co-op could have acted upon.
I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. While I appreciate Mr C may 
disagree, I do find it more likely than not that he would not have been swayed from his plans 
to invest even if Co-op had provided insight into common fraud trends and the risk of falling 
victim to scams. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Co-ops failure to 
intervene can reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the transactions 
irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Finally, Ive also thought about whether Co-op could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. The process is subject to the 
rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters if there were no 
prospects of success.
In this case, Mr C used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the fraudsters. Meaning that he wouldnt be able 
to make a successful chargeback claim because the service would be considered provided 
(i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency or other digital assets). Consequently, I do not think    
Co-op has acted unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback claim further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman