DRN-3155288
The complaint
Ms W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has unfairly declined to reimburse the 
deposit she paid for a car when the conditional sale agreement shed entered into was 
cancelled and the car returned due to it not being of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In February 2021 Ms W entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The car was around seven years old and had a mileage of about 101,000. The car cost 
£8,140 and an advance payment of £800 was made leaving £7,340 to be paid by the credit 
agreement together with interest on that amount.
Within a short time, Ms W experienced faults with the car and complained to Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn upheld her complaint and the car was repaired with costs being reimbursed to 
Ms W. Unfortunately, the car broke down again a short time later. Diagnostics arranged by 
Ms W revealed further problems with the car.
Ms W made a second complaint about the car to Moneybarn who agreed to have the car 
independently inspected. In July 2021 the independent engineer, having investigated the 
car, reported that the faults would have been developing at the point of supply. 
Moneybarn upheld Ms Ws second complaint and said that due her earlier complaint, the 
further faults found with the car and the independent engineers conclusions regarding its 
quality, she was now entitled to reject the car. Moneybarn said that the agreement would be 
cancelled and wound back. In addition, Moneybarn paid Ms W £100 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by dealing with the faulty car.
Ms W returned the car in August 2021 and the agreement was cancelled. She says that 
Moneybarn didnt reimburse her £800 deposit because it had said there wasnt an invoice 
prepared by the dealership regarding the car shed part exchanged when arranging the 
agreement for this one. Ms W said that Moneybarn had told her that there wasnt any proof 
of the £800 advance payment. Ms W says she had been told by the dealer that they would 
reimburse her, but it then hadnt done so, and she hadnt had any further contact from them.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ws complaint should be upheld and that Moneybarn 
should reimburse her the £800 advance payment together with interest.  Ms W agreed with 
the investigators view but Moneybarn hasnt responded. So, as there hasnt been any 
agreement reached then Ms Ws complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that the car supplied to Ms W under the conditional sale agreement she entered 
into with Moneybarn in February 2021 wasnt of satisfactory quality condition. And Ive seen 
that the car had already been repaired once when a further fault with the ABS came to light 
and the car broke down. Moneybarn upheld both of Ms Ws complaints about the car and in 
July 2021 agreed that she was entitled to rejected it.
I understand the car was collected from Ms W in August 2021 and Ive seen there were 
various emails to Ms W about what she should be reimbursed which included insurance 
payments shed made. However, Ms W says that she wasnt reimbursed her deposit of £800 
which had come from the car shed part exchanged for this one. Moneybarn hasnt told this 
service why it didnt make that reimbursement though Ms W says she was told it was 
because of a missing sales invoice in respect of the car shed part exchanged.
Looking at both the conditional sale agreement and the sales invoice for the rejected car 
these show that the cost of the car was £8,140. The conditional sale agreement sets out that 
there was an initial payment of £800 made leaving the amount of credit as £7,340. The sales 
invoice sets out that £800 was paid towards the car as Deposit/PX Allowance.
Ms W says she part-exchanged a car when taking out this new agreement and I accept what 
she has said. It appears the £800 was a part exchange allowance rather than £800 paid in 
cash or via a bank card. Looking at the paperwork, Im satisfied that Ms W contributed £800 
towards the cost of the car she was later entitled to reject. Its therefore unfair that when this 
agreement was unwound that this contribution wasnt reimbursed to her. The aim of 
unwinding the agreement was to put Ms W, as close as possible, back in the position she 
would have been in had she not entered into the agreement. Here that wasnt possible 
because she couldnt have the car she traded in as part of the deal returned to her, but she 
could have received the monetary value placed on that exchange.
As the dealership hasnt reimbursed Ms W then I think its fair that Moneybarn does. As this 
is a regulated credit agreement, Moneybarn as the credit provider is responsible for the 
condition of the car and so for resolving Ms Ws complaint.  
Im upholding Ms Ws complaint
Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn to pay Ms W the £800 advance payment together with interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. Im asking Moneybarn No 1. 
Limited to pay Ms W the £800 advance payment together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman