DRN-3851669
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their contents 
insurance claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again full 
here. This is a summary of the events that led to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs E have a wooden ceiling in their home.
Mrs E was attempting to touch up some blemishes in the finish of the wood with 
some old varnish. She said she became dizzy when looking up at the ceiling and the 
tin of varnish fell from the ladder, causing staining to their sofas and floor.
Mrs E attempted to clean the staining but was unsuccessful.
Ageas initially validated Mr and Mrs Es claim, but on further examination of photos 
referred the matter to a Forensic Scientist. Ageas has declined the claim as it says it 
has been unable to validate the incident happened in the way Mr and Mrs E 
described.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Es complaint be upheld. She said Ageas 
were entitled to rely on the opinions of experts and had acted fairly in assessing Mr and 
Mrs Es claim.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and provided further evidence to support their claim. They asked for 
an ombudsman to review the matter.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Es testimony, I find it to be plausible and consistent 
throughout.
I can see the initial assessment from Ageas was the damage and circumstances in 
which it occurred, were consistent with Mr and Mrs Es testimony.
Ive not seen anything to identify why Ageas then believed the claim to be
exaggerated or fraudulent and to proceed to obtain an opinion from a Forensic
Scientist.
Ive considered the opinion of the Forensic Scientist, and I can see from the photos 
provided there does appear to be staining, which appears to be of a dripping nature, 
going in a different direction to the rest of the general damaged area. 
But its plausible this could be explained as Mr and Mrs E have said, by attempting to 
clean the damage, and the nature of picking up a tin of varnish that had spilled. So, 
Im persuaded the incident has happened in the way Mr and Mrs E have said.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs E have had the damaged carpet and their sofas replaced. Ageas have now lost
the opportunity to deal with the claim, so it should therefore proceed to settle the claim at the
cost to Mr and Mrs E on production of sufficient evidence  such as receipts. Simple interest
of 8% should be added to amount from the date Mr and Mrs E made the payments, to the
date Ageas makes settlement.
Ive also considered the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs E. I can see from their testimony
that having what theyve said happened questioned, in the way that it was, has been
distressing to them and as Ive set out above, Ive not seen anything that identifies why
Ageas proceeded to obtain forensic evidence.
So, in the circumstances, I think Ageas should also pay Mr and Mrs E £150 compensation,
as this fairly represents the distress and inconvenience they have been caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs E responded to say they agreed with my findings.
Ageas didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said though it initially failed to identify any 
potential concerns with the damage, it later did after receiving its agents initial report. It said 
it didnt feel there was reasonable explanation for what it felt were separate spillages, going 
down the two sofas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ageas has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
The initial report from Ageas agent says, from reviewing the photos and information 
provided, the damage is consistent with the reported cause. 
The two sofas in question have staining to the arms in one concentrated area  and I can 
see from the photos they are situated right against each other. 
So, I find it plausible that damage would likely occur to both from the incident and resultant 
clean up. But Im not satisfied this is separate staining. 
And as Ive set out in my provisional findings, I find Mr and Mrs Es testimony plausible, so 
Im persuaded the incident has happened in the way they have said.Putting things right
Mr and Mrs E have had the damaged carpet and their sofas replaced. Ageas have now lost
the opportunity to deal with the claim, so it should therefore proceed to settle the claim at the
cost to Mr and Mrs E on production of sufficient evidence  such as receipts. Simple interest
of 8% should be added to amount from the date Mr and Mrs E made the payments, to the
date Ageas makes settlement.
Ive also considered the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs E. I can see from their testimony
that having what theyve said happened questioned, in the way that it was, has been
distressing to them. 
So, in the circumstances, I think Ageas should also pay Mr and Mrs E £150 compensation 
as this fairly represents the distress and inconvenience they have been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman