DRN-2075854
The complaint
Mr S complains about how IGO4 Limited dealt with a refund of a motor insurance policy 
premium.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr S cancelled a motor insurance policy arranged by IGO4. He was due a 
premium refund of about £230. He asked for it to be paid to his new bank account, as the 
original payment account had been closed. IGO4 said it would need to send him a cheque. 
He was unhappy with that. 
A few days later Mr S explained to IGO4 that a cheque wouldnt be suitable. It was during 
the Covid pandemic lockdown. He was considered vulnerable, so was shielding. He said he 
wouldnt be able to visit a bank to pay in a cheque. IGO4 considered this but said due to 
anti-money laundering requirements, it couldnt pay the refund to his new account. It said it 
would need to try to pay the money to his old account initially. And if that payment was 
unsuccessful a cheque would be issued. 
 
Mr S complained to IGO4. He said hed been given incorrect information about the refund 
process. He wasnt initially told IGO4 would try to pay the funds to his old account first. He 
was unhappy it wouldnt pay the refund to his new account. 
In response IGO4 accepted Mr S had initially been given incorrect information about the 
refund process  but said that this had been corrected a few days later. It said it had 
followed the correct refund process. It didnt offer him any compensation.  
Mr S was unhappy with the response, so he came to this service. We asked IGO4 if, 
because of the circumstances, it could pay the refund to his new account rather than by 
cheque. It agreed to do so but went on to issue a cheque anyway. After we explained its 
mistake that was cancelled and the refund paid to Mr S new bank account. 
Our Investigator felt IGO4 could have handled the matter a little better. But she didnt think it 
had done enough wrong, or that the impact on Mr S was enough, for her to recommended it 
pay any compensation. Mr S didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. He wants to be compensated by IGO4, for it to cover the costs of his phone calls 
and pay interest on the premium refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S made a number of calls to IGO4. Ive listened to these. And I think it responded to his 
concerns in a fair and reasonable way. It seems to me that IGO4 was trying to sort the 
matter out. It did take longer than would usually be reasonable for the refund to be paid. But 
IGO4 was working in unusual circumstances as a result of the pandemic. As examples, its 
staff were working from home and it had limited resources in the team that processes 
refunds.  
IGO4s explanation for attempting to refund to the original account seems reasonable to me. 
In the end, because of Mr S circumstances, it did pay the refund to the new account. And I 
think that provided a fair and reasonable resolution. 
I accept this issue could have been handled a little better by IGO4. For instance, it did 
initially give some unclear information about the refund process. Though that was corrected 
a few days later. IGO4 also sent Mr S a cheque when it had already been told this wouldnt 
be suitable. And perhaps it could have agreed earlier than it did to pay the refund to Mr S 
new account.
But having considered everything I think IGO4 made reasonable efforts, in trying 
circumstances, to resolve the issue for Mr S. I accept, because of the pandemic, it was also 
a difficult time for him. But from what Ive seen the impact on Mr S for anything that did go 
wrong was minimal. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require IGO4 to pay him 
any compensation, cover his call costs or pay interest on the premium refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman