DRN-2511508
The complaint
 Mr Bs complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to his attempts to transfer 
money from his account. 
What happened
 On 12 March 2020, Mr B tried to transfer funds online from his account. He said he received 
a One Time Passcode (OTP), which he used but the transfer failed. He tried again, received 
a second OTP but the transfer failed. Mr B has said that he pre-warned Santander that he 
would be making the transfer.
Mr B then tried to contact Santander on the phone but was cut off three times. He visited the 
branch and managed to get his transfer made. Whilst there he said the staff member he was 
dealing with logged his complaint and said someone would contact him the following day or 
the day after. Mr B complains that he was not contacted until a week later. During the week 
after his visit to the branch, Mr B tried to transfer money again he had the same problem. 
Santander accept that his account was blocked because their automated system detected 
potentially fraudulent activity. Santander do not accept that they issued any OTP because 
they say the system doesnt do that when potential fraud is concerned. Instead they say they 
ought to have issued an authorisation message to Mr B but their system failed and the 
messages werent sent. They also accept that when Mr B initially complained he was told 
that they had been sent.
Santander couldnt initially find any evidence of a problem with their telephony systems and 
Mr B being disconnected, but upon further investigation found there was an intermittent 
issue which they were attending to and apologised to Mr B for that.
Santander apologised for their errors and paid Mr B £130 in total to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mr B was unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been 
mistakes on the part of Santander but overall the compensation Santander paid had been 
enough to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The accepted facts here are that the transfer Mr B wanted to make was blocked and the 
reason for this was because Santanders automated systems detected the possibility of 
fraud. For that reason, a temporary block was placed on Mr Bs account. What is also 
accepted that what then should have happened is that an authorisation message should 
have been sent to Mr B but it was not. The reason for that Santander say is because of a 
failure in their system. On the issue of the transfer being blocked, I cant say Santander have 
acted unfairly here. Fraud prevention is extremely serious and having highly sophisticated 
automated systems is a very necessary part of banking. I do appreciate that Mr B notified 
Santander that he would be making his transfer, but the automated systems still identified 
the transfer as potentially a fraudulent activity. And so I cant say that it was unreasonable 
for their system to temporarily block the transfer. 
What is not accepted by Santander is that they sent Mr B an OTP twice. Santander have 
produced evidence to show that such messages were not sent. Mr B is confident they were 
but unfortunately has not retained the messages. I think it is probably more likely that the 
OTPs were not sent because (a) Santanders evidence shows they werent and (b) 
Santander have confirmed that sending an OTP where fraud is suspected is something they 
wouldnt do anyway. It is the failure of Santanders system in sending the authorisation 
message which is the real problem here, because if that had been sent, then there wouldnt 
have been a problem for Mr B when he responded.
It is very unfortunate that Santander initially told Mr B that the authorisation messages had 
been sent when they had not, and they have explained that the reason for that was because 
the system was erroneously showing that to be the case. 
It is also unfortunate that Santanders telephony failed on three occasions and this would 
certainly have added to Mr Bs frustration and worry at that time. And it is because of that he 
took the decision to travel to a branch which was entirely reasonable and understandable. 
I have read Santanders first final response letter and it is quite correct that it was incorrect. 
Santander have acknowledged that by issuing a second final response letter by way of 
correction. That was issued 12 days later.
On the final point of complaint Mr B says that Santander did not respond to him within their 
stated timescales. What Santander say they will do is try to resolve the complaint within 
three business days after the day they receive the complaint, but for more complex issues a 
final response will be issued within 15 days. I can see here that Santander did deal with 
Mr Bs complaint within that timescale and so I cant say they have acted unfairly here as 
they have acted in line with their complaints procedures.
Santander has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated 
Mr B with £130. As Mr B doesnt think this is enough to put matters right, Ive given this 
some further thought. I do take into account that Mr B had to go to the branch to get matters 
sorted out and that even though he did this he missed his deadline for his transfer. 
If the authorisation messages had worked, then Mr B wouldnt have had to do that. And of 
course it is more difficult for Mr B to visit the branch because of his leg condition, so I do 
think this has impacted on Mr B to a greater extent than it would have otherwise. Taking that, 
together with the incorrect first final response letter, and the frustration of the disconnecting 
calls, I think the sum offered by Santander is not sufficient to compensate Mr B. 
In my provisional decision issued on 6 January 2021 I invited further comments from both 
Mr B and Santander and both responded to say they accepted my decision. 
Putting things right I think Santander UK Plc should pay Mr B £200 compensation to settle this complaint. For 
the avoidance of doubt that is £200 in total, thus meaning it should pay him an additional £70 
beyond the £130 already paid. I think that is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
 Santander UK Plc shall pay Mr B £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman