DRN-4116772
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited returned a repaired phone 
to her that was still faulty, and that when she returned it to them for the fault to be repaired, 
they wanted to charge her a further excess. 
 
What happened
Mrs W held mobile phone insurance with Assurant through her bank account.   
In October 2022 Mrs W had a repair completed under the policy which carried a repair 
warranty. 
In November Mrs B contacted Assurant again as further faults had developed on the phone, 
and one fault had been present since the phone was returned. Mrs W wanted these repaired 
under the repair warranty. 
Assurant sent out DPD labels for the return of the phone by e mail and sent a returns note 
by post. Mrs W says that she didnt receive these and had to make contact again at least 
twice to have them resent. She eventually returned the phone in February 2023
When Assurant received the phone, they said that the repair warranty was invalid as the 
back of the phone was damaged, and Mrs W would have to pay a further excess, as it would 
have to be treated as a new claim. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint and he thought that Assurant hadnt 
voided the warranty fairly as there was no evidence that the reported defect was caused by 
the damage to the back of the phone. He recommended that the repair should be completed 
in line with the warranty, but that if Mrs W wanted the defect on the back of the phone fixed, 
she would have to pay a second excess.
Assurant disagreed and said that they couldnt repair the phone and leave the back 
damaged and also that they couldnt be sure that the faults that had arisen werent as a 
result of the damage. 
Our investigator then issued a second view, recommending Assurant also repair the back of 
the phone free of charge. 
Assurant disagreed with this and so it came to me to review.    
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to decide is whether Assurant have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms of the policy when dealing with Mrs Ws claim, so Ive looked at the policy terms 
and Ive thought about how Assurant have applied them.
Im intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint but with different reasoning and a different 
outcome to the investigator and I will explain why.
The faults reported on 11 November
When the phone was returned to Mrs W in early November, the repairs were covered by a 
warranty which says:
Your warranty covers any mechanical and electrical failures as a result of any 
manufacturing faults or defects. [] The warranty will not be valid if the defect is 
caused by any faults resulting from customer damage, misuse, neglect or tampering, 
or if any alterations and/or repairs are carried out by someone other than us or our 
approved repairers
Assurant say that the damage caused to the phone invalidates the warranty. However, I 
dont agree that this is quite what the warranty says. This term says that the warranty will not 
be valid if the defect is caused by any faults arising out of customer damage. 
So, I would need to be satisfied that the issues with face ID and the volume button that Mrs 
W reported were caused by customer damage in order to say it was fair for Assurant to 
invalidate the repair warranty.  
I have listened to the call that Mrs W made to Assurant on 11 November 2022 when she first 
reported that there was a fault on the phone following the repair. She says that the face ID 
isnt working and that the phone is displaying a message to say that there are non-genuine 
parts on the phone. She says this fault was also present prior to this repair, following on from 
a previous unrelated repair.  Mrs W also said that the side volume toggle wasnt working and 
was permanently on loud. The call handler asked her if there was and further damage to the 
phone since she had received it back and she replies, No, not at all. I have no reason to 
doubt this.
Assurant havent provided me with any evidence that the reported fault was more likely than 
not caused by the physical damage to the phone, and given the short period of time between 
the phone being returned and the reporting of the issue, and Mrs Ws description of the 
faults and lack of damage during her call, Im not persuaded that the fault was caused by 
damage to the phone. The type of fault reported also seems to be consistent with a faulty 
repair with non-standard parts rather than physical damage.  
And so, I agree with the investigator that Assurant should repair these issues free of charge 
under the terms of the warranty as I dont think its fair to invalidate it. 
The physical damage
When the phone was received by Assurant, it had physical damage to the back. Mrs W says 
that when she sent the phone it was in good physical condition, and that the damage must 
have been caused in transit. 
Assurant say that given that there was a delay between Mrs Ws first report to them and their 
receipt of the phone, they cant be sure that the damage wasnt caused prior to it being sent, 
and so they are not willing to repair the physical damage. They advise Mrs W should raise a 
new claim and pay a new excess. They have also said that they are unable to repair the 
technical issues that she has reported unless the back is also repaired as it wouldnt pass 
quality control. 
I cant say for certain when then physical damage occurred. Mrs W hasnt provided us with 
any evidence of the condition of the phone when it was posted to Assurant, but we do know 
from the evidence provided that it was received by Assurant in a damaged state. I appreciate 
that it may have been damaged in transit, but without evidence of the condition prior to postage, I dont think its fair to say that Assurant should repair the physical damage under 
the warranty, and so unfortunately, if Mrs W wants the back of the phone repaired, she will 
have to make a new claim and pay a further excess. 
Customer Service failings
Mrs W is clear that she asked Assurant to send the returns form to her new address, and I 
can see from the case notes provided that this was recorded by Assurant. 
I have asked Assurant for evidence of when and where the returns letters and labels were 
sent to. They have provided me with a screen note of an e mail sent to the post room asking 
them to send out the returns letter to the alternative address, but they are unable to evidence 
it actually being sent. 
I note that the copy of the returns letter sent on 20 January 2023 which Assurant have 
provided to us is addressed to Mrs Ws old address, and so I think its possible that other 
letters were also sent there. Mrs W has told me that she didnt receive any of the letters until 
the last one, and I think that the fact that she contacted Assurant a further two or three times 
after the initial fault report indicates that something went wrong, and it seems likely on the 
balance of probabilities that the form wasnt sent out correctly. 
In view of that I dont think Mrs W has had the customer service that she should have, as the 
returns letter should have been with her shortly after she first reported the issue, and that 
might have avoided this complaint.
 
In view of that I propose to award Mrs W a payment in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused by the forms not being received and the delay in her being able to return the phone. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant havent responded to my provisional findings.  Mrs W has responded and advised 
that the phone has now been returned to her unrepaired, and that it was also sent to her 
previous address. This suggests that Assurant havent updated the address on their systems 
and supports Mrs Ws account of matters. 
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings. 
 
Putting things right
In order to out things right Assurant should:
Repair the faults on Mrs Ws phone reported on 11 November 2022 under the repair 
warranty
 
Pay Mrs W £100 for the inconvenience caused by Assurant not sending the return 
forms to her correct address until February 2023.  
Assurant will need to make arrangements for the phone to be returned to them for repair. My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and direct Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman