DRN-3175549
The complaint
Mrs J says Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) breached its agreement with her on 1 May 
2020, with regards to the cash value amount of her liquidated personal pension (PP)  
which was being switched to her cash fund.
What happened
The relevant events happened in 2020. Mrs J requested the switch on 17 April, and she says 
she was promised completion by 21 April. The switch did not take place by 21 April. Mrs J 
called SWL on 1 May to resolve this. SWL says her initial request had not been actioned 
because of the nature of the investment her PP was in, and that the issue was resolved on 1 
May during an earlier call with her financial adviser who took the necessary steps.
During the 1 May call with Mrs J she was offered a cash valuation backdated to the original 
request date. However, it transpired that her PP had appreciated since that date, and as of 1 
May, so she had no incentive to take the lower valuation and did not. SWL says both parties 
then agreed on the valuation at the time (on 1 May) of £133,867.34, which is the amount that 
was thereafter transferred into Mrs Js cash fund. Mrs J disputes this and says the 
agreement was to use the highest valuation between 17 April and 1 May, which was the 
valuation on 30 April of £136,221.47. She has submitted evidence of this valuation on 30 
April and she says SWL should be ordered to fulfil its agreement in this respect and should 
be ordered to pay her the balance she considers owed. SWL has submitted evidence 
showing the valuation on 1 May and showing the lower valuation of £131,291.77 on 17 April. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Mrs J asked us to obtain telephone recording 
evidence of her discussion with SWL on 1 May, she said that will show the agreement she 
has claimed. The investigator sought relevant evidence from SWL and in response it 
confirmed that telephone recordings for 17 April, 30 April, 1 May and 12 May had been 
requested from its Telephony Team and would be forwarded directly by that team. 
Thereafter it updated the investigator to say only the recording for the first date was available 
and that those for the other dates were showing errors.
The investigator proceeded to give a view on the complaint based on available evidence. He 
explained to Mrs J what had happened with regards to the unavailability of the recording for 
1 May. He considered that it was reasonable for SWL to refer to the valuation of 17 April as 
that was the date of Mrs Js initial request, but he also understood her decision not to agree 
that valuation given that her PPs value had increased since then. On balance, and without 
being able to listen to the recording for the 1 May call, he concluded that it was more likely 
that the agreed valuation would have been the valuation for the date the transaction was 
confirmed. Both parties agree that was 1 May, so the investigator concluded that SWL was 
not wrong to use the valuation from this date.
After sharing his view, the investigator continued to pursue the recording for 1 May and SWL 
said it continued to look into retrieving it, with help from its IT department. In the meantime, 
Mrs J disagreed with the view, considered it unfair given what she said had been agreed on 
1 May, requested that more effort be applied to obtaining the recording and stressed that the 
recording will support her account of events. SWL then confirmed that its IT department had 
concluded the recording for the 1 May telephone call could not be retrieved. 
The investigator conveyed this to Mrs J and affirmed that his view on the complaint therefore 
remained the same. She expressed suspicion about SWLs claim and considered that it is 
hiding evidence that will go against its position. She repeated her key arguments and her 
summary of what was agreed. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Js strength of feeling in this matter and whilst I have seen no reason to 
doubt her credibility, it should be said that I have also seen no reason to doubt SWLs 
credibility in this case. Both parties accounts of the agreement on 1 May are conflicting and 
unfortunately there is no telephone recording from that date to clarify exactly what was said.
I am not persuaded that SWL is unduly withholding the recording or that, as Mrs J suspects, 
the recording exists but is being hidden from us (and her). There is correspondence in which 
SWL confirmed to us its intention to provide the recordings for the telephone calls on all the 
dates mentioned above, including 1 May. I have not seen evidence that it was ever reluctant 
to do so, or evidence to suggest that what it has told us about the unavailability of the 
recording is false. 
As for the notion that SWL could have an incentive to hide contents in the recording that 
goes against its position, I have not heard the contents the recording so I cannot determine 
this. However, it is somewhat noteworthy, from Mrs Js description of the complaint events, 
that she says after her complaint SWL agreed to listen to the recording for 1 May to verify 
what she claimed; she says SWL spoke to her again after it had listened to the recording  
which, she argues, shows that the recording exists; and she says SWL told her the 
agreement was indeed based on valuation on 1 May. 
I understand the point arising from Mrs Js description of SWL previously accessing and 
listening to the recording of 1 May. It suggests that the recording existed at the time, but that 
does not automatically mean it could not have developed an error thereafter, plus SWL has 
never claimed the recording did not exist, it tried to share it when it thought it could be 
retrieved and then it updated us to say it could no longer be retrieved. The other point to 
note is the suggestion from Mrs Js description of the above exchange that SWLs view of 
the recording at the time was that it supported its position  not that it went against it.
In any case, the recording is not available to me, I am satisfied that the investigator made 
reasonable effort to obtain it and I have not seen reason to conclude that SWL is concealing 
it from us. As the investigator said, the remaining task is to determine the complaint based 
on the balance of available evidence.
Mrs Js decision not to use the valuation from 17 April is understandable, her PPs value had 
increased since then, so it was in her interest to seek the higher cash value. She says she 
did more than this and that she and SWL agreed to use the highest value between 17 April 
and 1 May (being that of 30 April), but SWL disputes this and, as I have addressed above, 
there is no evidence to support her claim on this. In the absence of such evidence, and given 
her rejection of the 17 April value, it is more likely (than not) that both parties agreed to use 
the valuation on the date the switch matter was resolved and the transaction executed. That 
date was 1 May and I am satisfied with valuation evidence for that date which shows that the amount transferred to Mrs Js cash fund was the value of the PP on that date. As such, I do 
not find that SWL misconducted itself in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman