DRN-3820309
The complaint
Miss K has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to 
decline a claim she made for water damage to her home.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Miss K made a claim when she 
noticed cracking and water ingress to her property.
RSA has accepted Miss Ks claim for subsidence damage to her home and has drafted a 
schedule of repair works. However, it says the water damage to Miss Ks property is not 
linked to the subsidence, but rather to defects with, or due to the absence of, cavity trays 
above the windows. RSA says these issues arent covered by the policy, and Miss K needs 
to remedy the cause of, and resultant water damage, before it can complete the repairs 
which are linked to the successful claim for damage caused by subsidence.
Our investigator considered Miss Ks complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said Miss K hadnt shown that the water damage was most likely the result of an insured 
event. She said RSAs expert reports persuaded her that the water damage was more likely 
the result of the cavity tray issues. So, she said RSAs conclusions on the claim were 
reasonable in light of the available evidence.
Miss K didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K has brought her complaint through a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill only 
refer to Miss K by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or arguments put 
forward by her representative.
In response to our investigators assessment Miss K raised several concerns with our 
investigators opinion. To summarise, she said:
Legally she is not required to prove the cause of the loss, only that a loss has 
occurred.
Once she has proven a loss, the onus switches to the insurer who must show, in this 
case, that a crack and/or water ingress didnt occur.
The insurer needs to show that her version of events did not occur, beyond a 
reasonable doubt.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence and arguments, including the comments 
made in response to our investigators assessment. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Miss Ks property has suffered cracking damage as a result of 
subsidence movement  which is an insured event covered by Miss Ks policy. Its also not in 
dispute that Miss Ks property has suffered water damage. What is in dispute is the cause of 
the water damage, and whether it is something covered under the terms of Miss Ks policy. 
Miss K has suggested that she only needs to demonstrate that a loss has occurred, rather 
than the cause of the loss, but I dont agree. I say this because Miss Ks policy is a perils-
based policy, which is a policy that covers damage caused by specific insured events (perils) 
only. This means that the onus is on Miss K, as the policyholder, to show that she has 
suffered a loss which has most likely been caused by an insured event. This is because if 
the cause of loss is not an insured event, then the loss is simply not covered under the terms 
of the policy. 
There are insurance policies available on the market known as all risks policies which cover 
damage by any cause, unless specifically excluded. The difference with this type of policy is 
that the policyholder only needs to show damage has occurred (rather than damage caused 
by a specific insured event), and the onus is then on the insurer to show it is excluded. But 
as I say, Miss K has a perils-based policy which only covers her for specified insured events.
Water ingress, on its own, is not an insured event covered by Miss Ks policy. So, in order for 
the claim for water ingress to succeed, the ingress would need to have been caused by one 
of the specified insured events such as subsidence, storm, flood etc. 
Were Miss K to demonstrate, on the balance of probabilities, that the water ingress was 
most likely caused by an insured event, then I agree the onus would be on RSA to 
demonstrate that a policy term, condition or exclusion applied which meant it could fairly 
decline the claim. However, I dont think RSA would need to demonstrate this beyond a 
reasonable doubt  as Miss K suggests. Rather, I think RSA would need to show, on 
balance, that a term or exclusion more likely than not applied.
Miss K has shown that her property has suffered damage as a result of subsidence and that 
it has suffered from damage caused by water ingress. Based on this, RSA has instructed 
various experts to investigate the likely cause(s) of damage and to draw up a schedule of 
repairs for the damage covered by the policy. I think it was right of RSA to conduct these 
investigations as, on the face of things, it could be considered likely that the water ingress 
would be linked to the cracking damage and subsidence.
Following its investigations, RSA says that none of the water ingress noted can be linked to 
the subsidence cracking. Instead, it says the water ingress is as a result of issues with, or a 
complete lack of, cavity trays above the windows to the gable end. Ive also seen reference 
to a leaking radiator; however, RSAs leak detection specialist completed a thermal imaging 
survey which showed no leaks. The leak detection specialist commented on the apparent 
absence of cavity trays and on the filling of cavities during renovations around three years 
prior. And RSAs contractors also separately commented on the cause of water ingress 
being either faulty or absent cavity trays. As these reports/comments were provided by 
suitably qualified experts, I find them to be more persuasive than Miss Ks version of events.I havent seen any persuasive expert evidence to support that the water ingress has 
occurred because of the subsidence damage. Nor have I seen evidence of a storm, flood or 
other insured event which resulted in the water ingress. I have considered whether the water 
damage could be covered under the accidental damage section, as Miss Ks policy defines 
accidental damage as, damage caused by external means, other than a deliberate act of 
any of the insured which is very broad. But having checked Miss Ks policy schedules, she 
has not had the optional accidental damage cover during any of the relevant policy years.
Im aware that Miss K feels RSA needs to carry out more detailed, intrusive inspections of 
the cavity trays in order to show whether or not they are the cause of the water damage. But 
by providing the comments/reports of two separate qualified experts which suggest that the 
cause of damage is most likely a result of the cavity trays, rather than subsidence or another 
insured event, I think RSA has done enough to show, on balance, that the water damage 
isnt covered.
Should Miss K wish to obtain and provide her own expert report on the cause of damage, or 
an intrusive inspection of the cavities/cavity trays, Id expect RSA to consider this. But in the 
absence of such evidence, Im not persuaded that the water damage has most likely been 
caused by an insured event covered under the terms of Miss Ks policy. 
As Im persuaded the water damage is not the result of an insured event, RSA doesnt need 
to demonstrate that an exclusion most likely applies. Instead, as the damage hasnt been 
caused by an event covered by the policy, it simply follows that RSAs decision to decline the 
water damage is in line with the terms of the policy and is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Miss K also raised concerns about the time RSA took to investigate and deal with her claim. 
RSAs loss adjuster accepted it had caused avoidable delays, particularly in the time taken 
to appoint a leak detection specialist and for them to issue their report. It offered £350 
compensation for the impact of these delays. But as I understand it, Miss K didnt provide 
her bank details for this payment to be made.
I agree that RSA, as the principal for its loss adjuster, caused avoidable delays and that 
Miss K has been unduly inconvenienced as a result. But I think the amount offered by the 
loss adjuster is sufficient to compensate Miss K for the impact the delays on the claim, which 
RSA is responsible for. So, Ill not be directing RSA to increase the amount of compensation 
offered. But as the payment has yet to be made, RSA must pay Miss K the £350 previously 
offered by its loss adjuster.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer of £350 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Miss K £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman