DRN-3980485
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a storm damage claim she 
made under her landlord insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs A made a claim to her commercial property insurance provider  UKI 
 for storm damage to a garage building in the garden of one of her rental properties. Shes 
unhappy UKI has declined her claim. Shes also unhappy she didnt receive support or a 
good level of service from UKI or its agents.
UKI accepts there was a storm. But it says the garage was showing clear signs of suffering 
from a natural breakdown of materials. UKI says the storm merely highlighted this pre-
existing wear and tear. So, it declined the claim based on an exclusion within the policy for 
gradual deterioration.
UKI considered Mrs As complaint about the service provided but didnt accept it had done 
anything wrong. It said its surveyor had made more than one attempt to contact Mrs A within 
its service level expectations and that it attended promptly once contact was finally made.
Mrs A says UKI have failed to properly consider the severity of the storm which occurred. 
Shes provided a statement from her own contractor which says the structure of the garage 
was damaged by the storm and was too unstable to support a new roof. Because of this, 
Mrs A says she had to pay to demolish the garage and she wants UKI to cover her claim, 
reimburse her expenses and cover the cost of reinstating her garage. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said UKIs 
reasons for declining the claim were reasonable.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision, to give everyone the chance to respond, before I reached a final 
decision.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. Ill explain why addressing each issue separately.
Delays caused by the surveyor
Mrs A has raised concerns that it took UKIs surveyor around two months to attend 
the site.
UKIs surveyor made two attempts to call and/or email Mrs A. One within a week of 
the claim notification and another around two weeks after the first. UKI says this was 
within the surveyors service level agreement.
Given the surveyor contacted Mrs A within a reasonable time, I cant fairly conclude 
that UKI is solely responsible for the time it took for the surveyors visit to take place. 
I also note that once Mrs A contacted the surveyor, a visit was booked within a 
reasonable time  around a week later. 
Based on the above, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
The claim decision
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
UKI accepts there was a storm on the date the loss occurred. And having checked 
the weather reports for Mrs As property on the date of loss Im satisfied the wind 
speeds more than amounted to a storm. So, that satisfies question one. And a 
garage roof could be ripped off in high winds, so that potentially satisfies question 
two.
UKI has declined to cover the claim based on question three. It says gradual 
deterioration, rather than the storm, was the dominant cause of damage. So, it has 
relied on the following exclusion within the policy wording: 
inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, frost, 
change in water table level, its own faulty or defective design or materials
Where an insurer seeks to decline a claim based on an exclusion, the onus is on the 
insurer to show that the exclusion, most likely, applies to the circumstances of the 
loss. Ive kept this in mind when reaching my provisional conclusions.
UKI says there were clear signs of gradual damage to the garage such as rotten 
wooden frames around the windows, splitting of the wooden fascias and weathering 
of the corrugated roofing panels. It says all of these issues would have weakened the 
garages structural integrity and left it more susceptible to damage by high winds. 
Had the garage been in better condition, UKI says it would have been able to 
withstand the storm conditions completely or, at the very least, would have remained 
structurally sound enough for a new roof to have been fitted, rather than requiring 
demolition and rebuilding.
UKI has also provided a report completed by a field surveyor. This report includes 
multiple photos of the damaged garage alongside the surveyors conclusions that the 
dominant cause of damage was a natural breakdown of materials. Ive thought carefully about all of the available evidence, including the comments 
from UKIs surveyor and Mrs As contractor. Ive also considered strength of the 
storm relative to the location of Mrs As property. Having done so, Im minded to 
partially uphold Mrs As complaint about UKIs claim decision. Ill explain in more 
detail below.
Looking at the photos of the garage, I fully accept it was suffering from some age-
related wear and tear, particularly around the windows and fascia. Im aware that 
Mrs As contractor said the damage to the structure was caused by the storm, but I 
dont find these conclusions persuasive. I say this because Mrs As contractor hasnt 
offered any explanation or reasoning as to how theyve concluded the storm was the 
dominant cause of damage. Nor do they appear to have considered or commented 
on the likely condition of the garage before the storm. 
Ultimately, I agree with UKI that, on the balance of probabilities, a garage which was 
well maintained and structurally sound prior to the storm would likely have remained 
so, despite the strong winds on the date of loss. And based on the photos Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that Mrs As garage was either. So, Im currently minded to decide 
that UKI can fairly decline to cover the cost of demolishing and rebuilding the 
structure of the garage because Im persuaded that gradual deterioration was the 
dominant cause of damage to the structure. 
That said, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont agree that gradual deterioration 
was most likely the dominant cause of damage to the roof. I say this because Im 
mindful that the storm in question was a particularly violent and well publicised storm 
which caused widespread damage, even to well-maintained roofs, across the UK. I 
also note the windspeeds in Mrs As area appear to have peaked at around 69mph, 
which is well in excess of what I would consider to be a storm, and likely to be strong 
enough to cause damage to roofs similar to that of Mrs As.
Im aware that UKI says Mrs As roof was showing signs of weathering. But from the 
photos Ive seen, it doesnt look to be in a particularly poor condition to me. And 
UKIs surveyors report isnt sufficiently detailed, in its comments, to persuade me 
that the roof only suffered the damage it did due to its pre-existing condition. Overall, 
I dont think UKI has done enough to show that the gradual damage exclusion most 
likely applies to the damage to the roof.
So, taking into account the evidence Ive seen, on balance, Im currently minded to 
decide that the dominant cause of damage to the roof of the garage was the storm. 
However, I agree with UKI that the storm was not the dominant cause of the need for 
the garage to be demolished and rebuilt. 
To put things right, I think UKI needs to cover the costs incurred by Mrs A in safely 
disposing of the roof debris, which was asbestos, and it needs to cover the cost of 
the replacement roof. If Mrs A can evidence that shes already incurred costs for 
these, then UKI should reimburse them and also add 8% interest to the amount due 
to Mrs A, to compensate her for being deprived of the use of her money for other 
purposes.
However, Im not intending to direct UKI to cover or contribute toward the cost of 
demolishing or reinstating the remaining structure of the garage, because Im not 
persuaded the dominant cause of damage to the structure was the storm.In addition, I think UKI ought to pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
shes suffered as a result of its, in my view, incorrect decision to decline the claim for 
the damage to the roof.
Mrs A responded to say that she was inclined to accept my provisional decision. She also 
shared two invoices for costs already incurred.
UKI didnt agree with my provisional conclusions. To summarise, it said:
I highlighted that the garage was not well maintained, and this included the roof.
The roof has clear signs of gradual deterioration such as moss growth and 
discolouration.
Mrs A had installed a new panel on the right-hand side of the roof to cover an area of 
damage. This shows the roof was already showing signs of weakness causing 
damage.
There is a clear colour difference between the new and old panel further evidencing 
age related wear and tear.
The timber frame the roof panels are secured to is shown to be split and rotting.
I asked UKI to send me higher resolution photos of the damage it referred to and it duly 
provided these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
provisional conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to reiterate the questions Ive considered when assessing UKIs 
decision on this storm damage claim. They are:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
It is accepted there was a storm and that the damage is consistent with storm damage. That 
means the relevant question needing to be answered now is whether or not the storm was 
the dominant cause of damage, or whether it was gradual deterioration  which is excluded 
under the policy terms. 
As UKI is seeking to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, the onus is on UKI to show 
that the exclusion more likely than not applies to the loss. That means its for UKI to prove, 
on the balance of probabilities, that the gradual deterioration, rather than the storm, was the 
dominant cause of damage.UKI has provided higher resolution images which it says shows that the roof was old and 
showing signs of gradual deterioration, such as moss growth and discolouration. But 
providing images showing gradual deterioration was present is not the same as proving that 
it was the dominant cause of damage to the roof. And the latter is what UKI needs to show in 
order to fairly decline the claim for damage to the roof.
UKI has pointed to the colour difference between the old and new panels. But from the 
pictures its provided, the new panel appears to be a completely different material to the old 
panels. So, I dont think the colour difference between these panels is particularly persuasive 
as evidence that the old panels only suffered damage during the storm due to their age and 
condition, rather than due to the intensity of the storm.
UKI has also suggested the fact that the new panel needed to be installed over a previously 
damaged area of the roof shows that it was suffering from age related weakness prior to the 
storm. But UKI hasnt provided any evidence or reasoning to support that the existing hole in 
the roof was as a result of its age or condition rather than some other cause, for example 
impact (or even a previous a storm). So, UKIs comments here are not sufficient to persuade 
me that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of damage to the remaining roof panels either.
Finally, UKI has reiterated that the timber frame around the top of the garage walls, which 
the roof was fixed to, was cracked and rotting.
The higher resolution images provided by UKI do clearly show a large crack running through 
the centre of this timber frame on the left-hand side of the garage. But I dont agree that 
there are any signs of rotting  as there was with the window frames. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this evidences that the roof only suffered damage during 
the storm due to this crack. But I dont think it does. I say this because the crack is some 
way down the timber, away from the fixings of the roof, and the timber remains in one piece. 
Were this crack the dominant cause of the damage, Id expect that the wood would have 
separated at the crack, causing the roof to lift. But that doesnt seem to be what happened 
here. There are also no signs that the roof fixings came out of the wooden frame due to any 
rot or existing areas of damage.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think UKI has done enough to demonstrate that the 
storm  which, as mentioned in my provisional decision, was a particularly vicious one  was 
not the dominant cause of damage to the garage roof.
It therefore follows that, on balance, I think the storm was the dominant cause of damage to 
the roof. So, UKI needs to deal with the roof element of Mrs As claim and cover the cost of 
safely disposing of the damaged asbestos roof and replacing the damaged sections of the 
roof.
Mrs A has provided our service with invoices for some of this work. But the amount UKI 
should pay in settlement of her claim is not part of this complaint. So, Mrs A should provide 
those invoices to UKI directly for consideration. Should a further dispute arise over a fair 
settlement amount, this would need to be dealt with as a separate complaint  and by UKI in 
the first instance.
Neither side provided significant additional comments about my provisional findings on the 
structure of the garage or the compensation award. So, my decision on these points remains 
the same as in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs As complaint in part. 
UK Insurance Limited must:
Accept and settle Mrs As claim for storm damage to the roof of her garage including 
adding 8% simple interest* to any amount Mrs A can evidence shes already incurred 
in safely disposing of and/or replacing the damaged sections of roof.
Pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the inconvenience it has caused her.
*If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman