DRN-3517810
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA)s handling of their buildings insurance claim.
Mr S and Miss M have brought the complaint on behalf of K. But for ease, I will simply refer 
to K below.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand K has strong views about what has happened. They have provided detailed 
submissions to support their complaint and I want to assure them Ive read and considered 
what theyve said very carefully. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role in it. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not for me to decide whether Ks property was a legal or illegal development. My 
decision focusses on the actions of RSA and whether it has carried out the required 
actions needed to provide cover under the terms of the policy.
I can see RSAs internal notes show that around October 2014 works had begun to 
rectify storm damage at the property but had temporarily ceased due to separate 
work being carried out by Ks tenant.
Work later resumed and RSAs works were completed around January 2015.
RSA have provided proof that planning approval regarding the installation of metal 
steels and the roof were granted by the local authority (LA). Whilst I acknowledge Ks 
comments regarding different legislation, I think this demonstrates that permissions 
had been sought for relevant work.
Having reviewed the enforcement documents from the LA they highlight the work 
done to the carport extension as being the primary issue. This was work carried 
separately by Ks tenant which included work to excavate, and lower, part of the 
flooring and underpin the side wall. So, I wouldnt expect RSA to have sought 
permission to include this in its dealings with the LA.
One of the documents, includes a timeline of the events leading to the enforcement 
notice being issued. It shows the LA had expressed concern regarding the works 
being completed by the tenant, prior to completion, and says it had subsequently 
communicated and continued to raise issues with the tenant after. I cant see this 
information was relayed to RSA, but as it related to work not covered under the 
policy, I dont think RSA should be held responsible for any lack of action by the 
tenant in respect of the permissions required for the work they separately undertook
I think RSA did what was required in terms of its liability under the policy. It provided 
reinstatement to put the property back into the condition it had been prior to the 
storm. As Ive set out above the subject of the planning enforcement notice was 
primarily due to the car port extension which was not part of the insured works 
carried out by RSA. 
So I dont think RSA should be held responsible for the subsequent issues K faced 
with the LA. Even if it could be argued RSA reinstated property which for whatever 
reason shouldnt have been in place to start with, again I think the underlying matter 
of planning requirements would have been a matter for K and/or its tenants to deal 
with.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman