DRN-4289829
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it has 
accused him of fraud and declined the theft claim it had previously settled in full.
Mr K has been known by another name, but Mr K is the name relevant to this complaint 
about his cover with UKI. There was a bankruptcy order in Mr Ks former name, but that has 
since been annulled.
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen in March 2022, UKI accepted the claim and moved to settlement for it 
within about a month. UKI settled the finance agreement for the car and sent Mr K a cheque 
for the remaining part of the market value sum it had determined for the car. Due to a recent 
change of name, Mr K asked UKI to reissue the cheque to him. UKI agreed but then became 
aware of and started to look into a recent bankruptcy, which then caused it to review the 
claim as a whole. 
In July 2022 UKI said it thought Mr K had acted fraudulently and that it may cancel any 
policies Mr K held within its group of businesses. Further, even if it could be persuaded there 
had not been any fraud, it could no longer accept the claim. It said it would look to Mr K to 
repay it the sum paid to the finance company, and wouldnt reissue the cheque. Mr K 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service but also communicated further with UKI. 
UKI considered some further evidence presented by Mr K. But said it didnt change its 
position as set out in its July 2022 letters, which included its final response letter.
When our Investigator at the time wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint, he wasnt 
happy so his complaint came to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I was minded to uphold 
it. I wasnt persuaded that UKIs allegation of fraud was fair or reasonable. Nor did I think it 
could fairly decline the claim. I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Fraud
Fraud is a serious issue with significant consequences for a policyholder accused of it by an 
insurer. As such this service expects an insurer, wanting to rely on an accusation of fraud, to 
support such in strong evidence. Each complaint about a fraud allegation is taken on its own 
merits but, in general terms, its unlikely that merely showing a number of discrepancies or 
setting out a list of concerns will satisfy that a fair and reasonable allegation of fraud has 
been made. That is not least because there are two parts to fraud. The first is not being 
truthful. With the second being that the untruthfulness was put forward by the policyholder 
with a view to gaining a benefit from the policy they werent otherwise entitled to receive.
UKI set out eight reasons for concern when alleging fraud. In summary they are:
1) Mr K had given different timings for the likely occurrence of the theft.
2) Mr K said he had two keys for the car, but later only one.
3) Mr K confirmed there was CCTV footage before calling the police.
4) The police report says Mr K was reluctant to speak to them.
5) CCTV shows that the thieves did not unlock or force entry to the car.
6) The owner of the carpark where the car was parked doesnt remember seeing Mr K there 
other than the day of the theft, when hed said he always parks there.
7) The one key Mr K gave to it is the spare key.
8) The bankruptcy had occurred shortly after the policy was arranged and shortly before the 
theft occurred.
Im not persuaded that points, 1), 3), 4), 6) and 8) amount to anything more than 
discrepancies and concerns, certainly nothing strong enough for fraud. Ill say no more about 
them. Rather my findings will focus on points 2), 5) and 7). 
Points 2), 5) and 7) require further comment. Not least because the new evidence Mr K 
presented to UKI was a second key. It was UKIs investigators that he spoke with and sent 
the key to. He told them that he had always had both keys  but when UKI had begun 
reinvestigating the claim, and because it had already settled the claim, he just sent it one 
key, he thought that was easier. Clearly Mr K shouldnt have done that  he was bound to be 
open and transparent with UKI. And I can understand that UKI would have had some worries 
about this change. I note the investigators recorded on their file that this raised more 
questions for them. But, other than having an expert review the newly presented key, UKI 
chose not to undertake any other enquiries, instead referring Mr K to its previous reasons for 
alleging fraud and confirming that its (previous) final response letter allowed him to complain 
to us. So Im reviewing point 2), 5) and 7), summarised above, of UKIs fraud concerns, in 
light of the fact that Mr K has presented to it a second key.
The report on the second key confirmed it was a match for the spare key examined before. 
That they were both for Mr Ks stolen car. That the key now being examined was the main 
key for the car. So Mr K had told UKI he had two keys for the car and, following the theft, he 
still had those two keys in his possession. The key report also confirmed that the keys for 
Mr Ks make and model of car do not hold any data in them from the car, such as the date or 
mileage point they were last used to drive the car.
So I return to the three points about the key in respect of whether they amount to strong 
evidence of fraud. 
Point 2) and 7) go hand-in-hand in my view and do not amount to strong evidence of fraud. 
Mr K did change from saying he had two keys to one, and he did send UKI the spare key. 
But he didnt lie about having two keys and he has explained why he later told UKI there was 
only one. And the key report shows he did have a main key. UKI then chose not to 
challenge, investigate or consider that further. So these two points become no more than 
discrepancies or concerns  they arent strong evidence of fraud.
Point 5) is potentially the strongest evidence UKI has presented. Ive seen the CCTV 
footage. It starts just moments before the car is taken. The thieves walk up to the car, open 
the door, get in and drive away. The key report explains that the key cant be cloned and that 
codes from it cant be grabbed. The report says the car is of a type vulnerable to relay theft 
 where thieves use a device to enhance the range of the actual key, making the car think 
the key is near, so it unlocks. But in the circumstance here, Mr K said he had the key with 
him too far away from the car to make relay possible. So it seems the car had to have been 
unlocked. Which is suggested by the CCTV footage. Mr K had told UKI he remembers 
locking the car. Given the persuasive evidence of the key report and CCTV, it seems Mr K 
must have been mistaken in this respect. But his being mistaken doesnt mean he lied  that 
he knew he had left the car unlocked but told UKI differently. And UKI hasnt presented 
anything which makes me think it is most likely that Mr K lied to it about this. So the first part 
of the fraud test has not been met in this respect. It is my view that UKI has not shown that it made a fair and reasonable finding of fraud 
against Mr K. As such it will have to amend all databases to remove the finding, it cant rely 
on the finding to decline the claim and if any policies were cancelled, theyll need reinstating.
Decline of the claim 
UKI, when alleging fraud, said it was reserving its right, in case the finding of fraud was 
set-aside, to decline the claim based on the policy terms for theft. I understand why UKI 
thinks the claim fails based on the policy terms. It seems as though Mr K must have left the 
car unlocked (albeit unknowingly) and the policy excludes theft in that circumstance. 
However, UKI, when initially assessing this claim, had an opportunity, had it wished to, to 
consider if any exclusions to the cover applied which might have limited or removed its 
liability for the loss. UKI could then, had it wanted to, have obtained the CCTV footage 
and/or sought expert advice on the vehicle keys. But, for whatever reason, it chose not to 
and to instead fully accept the claim making settlement to both Mr K and the finance 
company, totalling the full market value for the car. I dont think its reasonable for UKI to 
have a second chance at that.
Let me be clear, I am in no way saying that UKI, having noted some concerns following its 
settlement, should not have made, or wasnt entitled to make, enquiries regarding fraud. And 
I can understand why, the possibility of fraud having become an issue, UKI wasnt inclined to 
reissue the settlement cheque to Mr K. If UKI had found evidence which showed a fraud had 
most likely occurred, that would reasonably have overturned its previous claim settlement. 
But, fraud aside, it cant reasonably review the claim again  not based on policy terms and 
evidence it had the opportunity to consider (but chose not to) before accepting and settling 
the claim in full.
Which means UKI will have to amend any records to show the claim is accepted, cease 
chasing Mr K for recovery of the finance costs, and reissue payment to him for his part of the 
remaining settlement, £16,521.62. And that sum will have to have interest* added to it from 
3 August 2022. This being the date the report on the second/main key was assessed by UKI 
and it chose not to make any further enquiries, or review its initial findings regarding fraud.    
Compensation
UKI has, unfairly and unreasonably in my view, accused Mr K of fraud and withheld a claim 
payment from him for over a year. It also sought to recover from him the not insubstantial 
payment it had made to the finance company (around £16,000). Ive no doubt that was 
distressing and worrying for Mr K. And I understand that as of May last year Mr K, without 
funds from UKI, had been unable to replace his car. But he did have use of his partners van. 
I accept though that using a vehicle which is not yours, not like yours and likely at times is 
required for use by others, is not without inconvenience. Overall I think UKI should pay Mr K 
£750 compensation to fairly and reasonably make up for the distress and inconvenience its 
unfair and unreasonable actions have caused.
Mr K said hed like more focus on UKIs accusation that he hadnt cooperated with the police 
 he feels victimised by UKI. He said he had missed work and has extra costs through not 
having a car since March 2022, had continued to have to pay for insurance and, due to his 
religious beliefs, the accusation of fraud had been particularly hurtful. Our Investigator asked 
Mr K if he had any evidence of having lost work. Mr K wasnt able to provide anything. He 
said hed like the complaint separating though  so that his inconvenience could be 
considered separately to the claim outcome. He said the loss of the car, along with the 
sentimental items in it, has devastated him. He said that, overall, the compensation of £750 
wasnt enough.UKI said, regarding the claim, that it had made the payment to the finance company in good 
faith only. It had then investigated matters and its key report showed the car could not have 
been taken without the key. It feels Mr K must have said the things he did to mislead it. 
Although it also accepted that our discrepancies listed within our first letter of repudiation fell 
short of meeting the burden of proven fraud. So it said it had revisited everything and was 
now presenting a new rationale to show Mr K had acted fraudulently. It set out its new 
arguments, along with supporting evidence, and requested that my provisional decision was 
reviewed in light of all that, which it felt showed a decision of fraud was fair and reasonable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr K may want to know more about UKIs comment that he hadnt 
cooperated with the police. But its not something, as explained provisionally, that I felt the 
need to dwell on as part of this complaint. 
I note Mr K, in response to my provisional findings, said hed had financial losses due to UKI 
accusing him of fraud and cancelling his policy  although he hasnt been able to evidence 
them at this time. But he didnt say that when making his complaint. And I havent seen he 
ever told UKI he would be unable to work. I also note he previously told UKI, that, since UKI 
had accused him of fraud, he had been using his partners van. I do appreciate, as I said 
provisionally, that being without a car will cause some difficulty  but Im not persuaded that 
Mr K was unable to work only because UKI didnt pay him the remainder of the funds for his 
car. In saying that I particularly note that UKI had paid off the finance agreement. Taking 
everything into account Im not persuaded to award Mr K anything for financial loss, or to 
change my view on the fair and reasonable compensation. I remain of my view as stated 
provisionally that fair and reasonable compensation here is £750.
I cant reasonably separate Mr Ks inconvenience and losses out from the rest of the 
complaint; the subject matter is the accusation of fraud and policy cancellation and those 
actions then resulted in the claim outcome, along with any upset caused to Mr K. So my 
decision considers everything and Mr K will have to decide whether to accept it or not, as a 
whole. It cant be accepted in part. And its unlikely, if Mr K accepts it that hell be able to go 
to court to challenge UKI for anything further, that he may feel is due in addition to the 
redress Ive award. He may like to take legal advice before deciding whether or not to accept 
my decision. 
Turning to UKIs reply, Im not persuaded it paid the finance company whilst its claim 
enquires were ongoing. Its file shows it settled the claim in full by paying the finance 
company and Mr K. It was only when Mr K asked for the cheque to be reissued that UKI 
decided to undertake further investigations. I remain of the view that UKI cant reasonably do 
that. For completeness Id add that the key report was very clear that if the car was unlocked 
the car could be stolen by competent thieves in a matter of seconds.
UKI said it thinks the discrepancies in its list can only exist because Mr K was trying to 
mislead it. Im not persuaded from what UKI presented that is most likely the case. And 
I note UKI has accepted that what it had presented previously did not show that a fair and 
reasonable finding of fraud had been made by it. 
I see UKI has revisited its fraud argument. I note the thrust and tone of it centres on Mr Ks 
change of name and the bankruptcy. I can understand why UKI might have concerns in 
these respects. But those concerns are not new  UKI was aware of Mr Ks change of name 
and the bankruptcy when it opted to not re-issue the cheque and instead undertake investigations which ultimately resulted in its fraud allegation. UKI had its opportunity then to 
complete further investigations and argue fraud based on the name change and bankruptcy. 
But it did not do so. UKI explained its fraud allegation centred on a list of concerns and Ive 
explained in my provisional findings why that list, including point 8) about the timing of the 
bankruptcy, did not evidence a fair and reasonable finding of fraud. Like I said regarding UKI 
changing its view on the claim, it doesnt fairly and reasonably get a second chance to 
review this sort of matter. In this respect to update its findings to show the accusation, 
overall was fair  or would have been fair if more evidence had been gathered and/or it was 
made on different or more specific grounds. Thats not to say that if UKI had come across 
something wholly new which was of concern to it, it couldnt look at that. But its revised view 
of the reason for its fraud decision, based on evidence and theories available to it but not 
follow up on before, does not give me cause to change my view as provisionally stated. 
My provisional decision has not changed. My provisional findings are now those of this my 
final decision. If Mr K accepts it within the deadline set, UKI will be bound by it.  
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Remove the record of fraud from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate any cancelled policies, if Mr K wants it to.
Amend any claim records to show the claim is accepted.
Cease asking Mr K to repay the sum paid to the finance company.
Pay Mr K £16,521.62, plus interest* applied on that sum from 3 August 2022 until 
settlement is made.
Pay Mr K £750 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require UKI to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman