DRN-2290462
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about problems caused by HSBC UK Bank Plc while they carried out their 
safeguarding review on his business account. Mr C wants HSBC to pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr C and asked him to provide some information about his business. They 
explained this was part of their safeguarding process. Over the course of the next 10 months 
letters were sent by HSBC chasing information from Mr C and giving him notice the account 
would be closed if the information wasnt received. And, they cancelled a direct debit. During 
this time, Mr C had provided information which representatives at HSBC had asked for but 
he was then told the information wasnt sufficient. The safeguarding process was completed 
in April 2020. 
 
Mr C complained and HSBC accepted their service had fallen below what Mr C was entitled 
to expect. They apologised and offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience and 
concern caused. 
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C and felt HSBC had acted unreasonably and 
recommended they increase the compensation to £300. HSBC accepted. Mr C disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ive decided the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why.   
The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. HSBC have admitted they got things 
wrong. Ive seen that Mr C asked for help in completing the required form and often had to 
chase HSBC. Ive also seen that Mr C was given incorrect information about documentation 
he could take into a branch, documents being lost and a wasted visit to a branch. I agree the 
service has been unreasonable here so I uphold the complaint. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether the amount of compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that HSBC should compensate Mr C for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service throughout the safeguarding process. I can see Mr C received a 
letter from a car garage to say his direct debit hadnt gone through. And, because of this, his 
service plan had been placed on hold and if they didnt hear back they would look to cancel 
his contract. 
This understandably caused Mr C upset and distress. Mr C had to call the car garage to 
arrange for two payments to be collected the following month. So, theres also been 
inconvenience caused to Mr C. 
 
Mr C has told us the situation with HSBC caused him upset and worry. He understands the 
need to carry out the review but I feel more shouldve been done by HSBC to help him. This 
couldve resolved things sooner and reduced the time over which this impacted Mr C. 
Consumers look to their bank to help them through such processes and to be understanding 
of a consumers situation. That hasnt happened here and even though Mr C engaged with 
the process and provided information, he still received notification of HSBCs intention to 
close his account. Its understandable Mr C was left distressed by this. He was also left 
confused and worried when, having sent his wifes birth certificate, he received another 
notice from HSBC to say his account would be closed. I feel its reasonable for HSBC to pay 
compensation to reflect the distress and worry to Mr C as well as the inconvenience in 
having to make an unnecessary trip to a branch. 
The period between Mr C first providing information and the process being completed was 
around seven months. So, while there has been distress and inconvenience to Mr C, the 
resolution of the account has brought an end to the impact this had on him  albeit the 
period was longer than it shouldve been. I also think the impact of this was limited, for 
example, Mr C was able to quickly resolve the issue with the car garage. And, I havent seen 
any evidence which shows there was a more significant impact, such as Mr Cs service plan 
being cancelled.  
So, taking everything into account, I feel compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and reflects the distress, worry, confusion and inconvenience caused to Mr C. 
Its also important for me to focus on the additional worry and inconvenience caused to Mr C 
by this event, but which was outside of HSBCs control. I can see Mr C did have some 
trouble getting his wifes birth certificate but this isnt something HSBC are responsible for. 
Its a document which they required to complete the safeguarding process. 
Mr C has told us that, even now when he opens his online banking, he still gets a message 
saying the review is incomplete  even though hes been told its been completed. I can 
understand why this is frustrating for Mr C so HSBC should put this right.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that HSBC didnt act reasonably when dealing with Mr Cs account. So, 
HSBC should pay compensation of £300 to reflect the upset and worry to Mr C. HSBC 
should also take steps to remove any notifications on Mr Cs online banking which suggest 
the review is incomplete.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation to Mr C in the sum of £300 for the trouble and upset caused; and
Take steps to remove messages appearing on Mr Cs online banking which say the 
review is incomplete. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman