DRN-2733697
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) misled him about who the 
sum assured would be under a life assurance policy he purchased.
What happened
In June 2011 whilst visiting a NatWest branch, Mr E was offered information about an Over 
50s life assurance policy (the policy). This was a non-advised sale  the idea of this 
process was that the bank would provide information on life policies it had available and the 
applicant could then make an informed decision on how they wanted to proceed.
Mr E purchased the policy following the meeting with NatWest and signed an application 
form on 29 June 2011. The policy was designed to pay a lump sum in the event of the 
policyholders death. Mr Es policy became active on 1 July 2011 and provided cover of 
£2,093 at a cost of £10 each month. Sadly, Mr Es wife passed away in 2020. When Mr E 
tried to make a claim with the insurer this was declined because he was the life assured 
rather than his wife. 
Mr E complained to NatWest saying he was told the cover would be for his wife. He said he 
had sufficient cover through his employment. But NatWest rejected Mr Es complaint. It said 
the policy clearly shows it was in the name of Mr E. And as it was a non-advised sale, it was 
for Mr E to pick the best policy that suited his particular circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, he didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence of NatWest misleading Mr E about who the sum assured was. Mr E disagreed. He 
maintained he was led to believe the policy was for his wife and he also didnt receive any 
policy documents so was unaware of this until he made his claim. So the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by passing on my deepest condolences to Mr E for the loss of his wife. I 
appreciate he is making this complaint at a particularly difficult time. 
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mr E, but I wont be addressing every 
single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of Mr Es complaint. Further, where theres a dispute about whats happened, Ive 
based my decision on a balance of probabilities.
Mr E says he was told or was led to believe, the policy would provide cover for his wife in the 
event of her death rather than on his death. This conversation happened at the meeting with 
the NatWest agent in June 2011. Whilst Mr Es recollections do form part of the evidence I 
must consider, given how much time has passed since the meeting with NatWest, I need to 
balance these with the contemptuous evidence such as the policy documents.
Mr E signed the application form with NatWest on 29 June 2011 where he agreed he wanted 
to set up the policy. Only Mr E's details are provided on this document and it was only 
signed by him. Theres no indication on the application form that he was applying for a joint 
life policy or a policy for his wife. 
Mr E says he never read the application form and was just asked to sign it. But I can see he 
was sent several policy documents with a covering letter date 1 July 2011  this was three 
days after the sale of the policy. I think these documents made it reasonably clear that the 
cover was for Mr E. Notably, the policy schedule says that both the Life Assured and 
Policyholder was Mr E. And the Post Sale Confirmation, which sets out some of the key 
policy terms, recorded all of Mr Es details including his date of birth and gender.
I think all the documents sent to Mr Es home address within a few days of the sale of the 
policy, made it reasonably clear to him that the cover was payable on his death only. As 
Mr E didnt raise any concerns at the time of receiving these documents, I think its likely that 
NatWest had provided the correct information during the sale of the policy a few days before.
Mr E says he didnt receive the policy documents. I can see Mr E was living at the stated 
correspondence address in 2011. And as the letter enclosing the policy documents was 
correctly addressed, on balance, I think these were correctly delivered at Mr Es address. 
Possibly due the passage of time, Mr E may not remember receiving them. 
Finally, I understand that Mr E says he didnt want or need the policy as he had similar cover 
from his employment. But as this was a non-advised sale, it was for Mr E to decide whether 
to the policy suited his particular needs at the time. From what I can see the information he 
was provided with by NatWest around the time of sale  was clear, fair and not misleading.
 
So for all these reasons, whilst I know this is a difficult time for Mr E and it will be a 
disappointing outcome for him, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman