DRN-2760204
The complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank PLC treated him unfairly when he applied for a credit card.  
What happened
Mr K wanted to apply for a credit card. TSB suggested he apply online as access to a branch 
was limited at the time. This was the period over the pandemic. Mr K applied, but he got an 
email telling him he had been declined. Mr K was very surprised by this, as he says hed 
managed to pay off a third of his mortgage in two years. He contacted TSB to appeal its 
decision. 
Mr K says he didnt hear anything from TSB, so he raised a complaint. On 8 July 2020, TSB 
issued a final response. It said it hadnt been able to offer Mr K a credit card on affordability 
grounds and it had considered a number of factors when making its lending decision. It did 
accept it hadnt sent him a decision letter dealing with the appeal (supporting the original 
decision) but enclosed a copy for his reference. It arranged to pay him £30 to reflect any 
inconvenience caused and said it would also consider any expenses he may have incurred, 
if he got in touch.
Mr K wasnt happy with TSBs response. He still disputed its decision to decline his 
application. He felt looking at his circumstances, its lending decision didnt make any sense. 
He said hed tried to contact the customer relations team several times to try and resolve the 
matter but unfortunately, he didnt get a response or any engagement from it. 
Mr K decided to refer his complaint to us. In doing so he reiterated the above but added the 
following (in summary):
- He had applied for a credit card again, three months later and been accepted. Hed 
made the application in a branch and provided broadly the same information as he 
had online. The only difference had been he was able to speak to someone who was 
able to talk him through the application. He didnt think he would have been declined 
the first time if hed been given this option.  He felt TSB had provided poor advice 
and so he wanted the information in relation to the first application to be removed 
from his credit file. 
- He felt someone should have contacted him originally to discuss his first application. 
In his view, this would have helped to remedy the situation. Instead, a lack of 
engagement had let to unnecessary expense, trouble and upset. He referred to a 
phone bill hed sent as proof of his expenses and said hed had no reply. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint but he didnt think TSB had treated him 
unfairly in relation to declining the initial application. In summary, he said that the bank was 
entitled to decide whether it wished to lend to him, and both the application and appeal had 
been through its lending criteria. 
He noted the bank had paid Mr K £30 for failing to send a response to his appeal and 
considered this fair for the inconvenience caused by the error. He asked TSB to consider Mr 
Ks phone costs. TSB agreed to reimburse £8.50 (covering calls to it). The investigator felt 
this was reasonable to resolve the complaint. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He asked that his complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Initial application 
At the outset I think it would be helpful to explain that its not for me to replace TSBs 
judgement with my own on whether it should have approved Mr Ks credit card. Its up to 
TSB to decide whether it wishes to lend (subject to appropriate credit worthiness checks) but 
what it must do is ensure that any decision it reaches isnt unfair or biased.  Whats apparent 
about the first application is that it was made online - Ill say more about this later. 
Mr K has questioned why TSB suggested he apply online.  However, an online application is 
perfectly acceptable means of applying for credit and standard banking practice across the 
industry. The key is that the bank sets out whats involved in the process and the customer 
has the opportunity to appeal the decision, if theyre unhappy.
On these points, I note that TSB set out on its website that the online application was an 
automated process with minimal human involvement. It explained that it considers the 
information provided against different metrics. The excerpt goes onto say that a decision is 
capable of being appealed. I think this information is clear and the nature of an online 
application is that the customer will generally receive less feedback as to why an application 
has been rejected than if they went through it in the branch with a member of staff who 
would be able to discuss the customers personal circumstances. But that doesnt mean it 
was inappropriate to suggest this method, particularly given the wider circumstances at the 
time. 
Declined application 
TSB sent Mr K an email telling him his application had been declined. It said he hadnt met 
the lending criteria. The communication added that if Mr K was concerned about the 
information TSB had used or he wanted to provide any additional information to support his 
application, he could appeal, which is what he did do. Ive thought about whether TSB 
considered his appeal to exclude any possibility of any unfairness. And the information Ive 
seen indicates that the appeal was considered by its Personal Lending Department but still 
didnt meet the banks lending criteria. I realise Mr K doesnt accept the decision on his 
appeal was correct but as Ive said, it is up to TSB to make that decision. So, it follows that I 
wont be asking TSB to remove any trace of the application from Mr Ks credit file.
Theres no question TSB should have contacted Mr K with the outcome of his appeal, and it 
didnt until he had to raise the issue as a complaint. This was a shortcoming, but TSB 
recognised this, apologised and paid Mr K £30 to reflect any trouble and upset caused. I 
think this was reasonable way to try and resolve the dispute and proportionate to what had 
happened in not sending the letter and him having to contact it.  
Mr K makes the point that his application was accepted only three months later. He believes 
that this indicates that there was a mistake on TSBs part in assessing his first application.  Im pleased to note Mr K has got what he wanted, and I can understand why he might think 
what he does. But I dont think it necessarily means TSB were wrong to have rejected the 
first application. In order to conclude that, I would need to be satisfied there was something 
wrong in how TSB looked at the first application and I havent seen anything to suggest there 
was. 
Customer service 
Mr K says a lack of engagement from TSBs customer relations meant that he couldnt 
resolve the matter, which caused expense, distress and inconvenience. Ive thought about 
this. However, I dont feel there was any obligation on TSB to continue to discuss the 
outcome of the lending decision once it had issued its final response. The response was 
issued within two weeks of the original application. That said, it ought to have acknowledged 
and responded to the phone costs as a matter of good customer service having mentioned 
them in its letter. I see that TSB has reviewed these now and offered to reimburse the costs 
of the calls to it (£8.50). I think this is reasonable taking account of all the circumstances of 
this complaint and noting that it has already paid £30. 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr K an additional £8.50 to cover the cost 
of calls to it. But I dont require it to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman