DRN-1705682
 
The complaint
Mr G complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the way they handled his 
account switch from his previous bank. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G decided to switch his bank account to NWB from his previous bank, 
who Ill refer to as C. As C werent signed up to the Current Account Switch Service 
(CASS), NWB had to process this move as a manual switch.
Mr G spoke to NWB to discuss how this manual switch would be completed and he feels he 
was told all of his direct debits and standing orders would still be moved across. But, after 
completing the switch, Mr G found that hed lost his list of saved payees and the standing 
orders hadnt been included. Hed also found that some of his direct debits had failed to be 
paid. Mr G was unhappy with this so he raised a complaint. He felt that NWB has misled him 
into agreeing the manual switch and that, if hed been told his saved payees and other 
information wouldnt transfer across, hed have cancelled the switch. He was also unhappy 
with the difficulties hed faced in contacting NWBs switching team. So, he wanted NWB to 
compensate him for the trouble hed been caused.
NWB responded and partially upheld the complaint. They didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong when processing the manual switch, saying theyd chased C on a number of 
occasions for all the information they needed. They thought theyd informed Mr G correctly 
and it was his decision to continue with the switch. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything further for this aspect of the complaint. But, they did agree Mr G had difficulties 
contacting their switching team which they apologised for. They explained feedback would 
be provided to that team and would consider reimbursing Mr G for any financial losses if he 
could provide proof. Mr G was unhappy with this response so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought NWB had acted 
reasonably when processing the switch manually, as C werent signed up to the CASS. She 
explained shed be unable to listen to a call recording of the conversation between Mr G and 
NWB where he thought hed been deliberately been misled. But, on balance, she thought 
NWB were fair to complete the switch as theyd attempted to contact Mr G on a number of 
occasions after receiving the standing order and direct debit information from C. 
She also thought any failed direct debit payment was likely to be as a result of an error from 
the payee rather than NWB as shed seen the direct debits were set up the day they were 
received from C. And finally, she thought NWBs apology about the difficulties Mr G faced 
getting in touch with the switching team was fair. So, she didnt think NWB needed to do 
anything further.
Mr G didnt agree with this view. He maintained that NWB deliberately misled him on the call 
held on 13 August. He stated that NWB explicitly told him all of his information would be transferred as part of a manual switch, so he expected his saved payees information to be 
included. He didnt think it was fair for the complaint to not be upheld because NWB were 
unable to provide a recording of that call. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this has caused Mr G. Im aware that Mr G had 
a large number of saved payees and Ive no doubt that losing these would be frustrating 
and time consuming to regather all of the information. I can also understand why hed expect 
his existing standing orders to be transferred across as part of the switch and the frustration 
he felt when this didnt happen. But, for me to find that NWB have acted unreasonably, Id 
need to see evidence to convince me that NWBs failed to follow their processes correctly, 
and it was their error that led to the situation Mr G found himself in following the switch. And 
unfortunately in this instance, I cant say thats the case.
First, Ive considered whether NWB acted fairly when processing the switch manually. Ive 
seen C werent signed up to the CASS, meaning an automatic switch using that scheme 
wasnt possible. So, I think a manual switch was the only way it could be processed and that 
NWB were reasonable to continue on this basis. But, Id expect them to explain to Mr G how 
this process would work and what it would and wouldnt include.
Mr Gs main concerns revolve around the call he had with NWB on 13 August. Mr G 
maintains that he was told explicitly all of the information included on his previous account 
with C would be transferred as part of the manual switch. Had he been told on this call that 
his saved payees wouldnt be included, he says hed have cancelled the switch. 
Unfortunately, I havent been able to listen to this call. So, Im unable to be sure on what was 
discussed. Ive seen a system note documenting this call which confirms Mr G agreed to the 
manual switch, which he himself has agreed he did in order to save time. So, I think NWB 
were reasonable to proceed with the switch at this time.
I understand Mr Gs frustration that when the switch was completed, all of his saved payees 
information wasnt included. I can appreciate he had a large number of saved payees and 
having to replace this information wouldve been time consuming. But, without being able to 
listen to call, Im unable to safely determine whether or not NWB provided the correct 
information. While I understand Mr Gs reservations about NWBs inability to provide the call 
recording, not being able to provide this information alone isnt enough for me to agree 
theyve done anything wrong. So, Im not able to conclude they acted unfairly here.
Ive seen from the date of the call, NWB chased C for all of Mr Gs direct debit and standing 
order information. This was provided on 28 August and the direct debits were created on the 
same day. Although Ive seen evidence to show one of Mr Gs direct debits failed, meaning 
he incurred a £30 admin fee, Ive seen that NWB set this direct debit up correctly on that 
day. So, I think its most likely that the error in processing that direct debit falls with the 
payee as they themselves also need to update the direct debit information. So, I cant say 
NWB did anything wrong here.
In relation to the standing orders, Mr G has provided evidence to show his standing orders 
werent set up meaning his rent to his landlord wasnt processed. This led to the threat of 
eviction which Ive no doubt was stressful and worrying. But, Ive seen that after NWB received the standing order information, they text Mr G asking him to confirm which standing 
orders needed to be arranged as they were unsure which remained active. Ive seen no 
evidence to show Mr G responded to this text. NWB then wrote to Mr G a few days later, 
asking for the same information. Again, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr G responded. So, 
NWB proceeded to complete the switch without the standing orders. 
Mr G doesnt think this was reasonable. But, I think NWB made reasonable efforts to contact 
Mr G to ensure the information they held was correct. Had they set up standing orders that 
were incorrect, it may have led to money leaving Mr Gs account incorrectly once the switch 
was complete. So, I think NWB acted reasonably by not including the standing orders to 
prevent this situation from arising. 
I also think its important to consider that Mr G has a responsibility to manage his account 
and ensure it was operating correctly. So, I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr G to 
check his direct debits and standing orders after the switch had completed to make sure 
they were all accounted for. NWB wrote to Mr G when the switch had been completed so at 
this point hed have been aware if standing orders werent included and couldve ensured 
they were arranged. But, I do understand this is an effort he didnt expect to have to make 
when he agreed to the manual switch.
Its not been disputed that Mr G had difficulties contacting the switch team and NWB have 
apologised for this. So, Ive considered whether I think this is a fair offer. Ive no doubt that 
Mr G wouldve been frustrated with how the switch had been handled as it wasnt able to 
proceed under the CASS as hed wished. So, I do recognise that having difficulties 
contacting NWB wouldve added to this. But, as well as an apology, NWB offered to 
consider any financial losses Mr G incurred due to these difficulties. Ive seen no evidence of 
this loss, or that any was provided to NWB. So, I think the apology and the promise to 
feedback to the team in question is a fair one. And I dont think NWB need to do anything 
further.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr G was hoping for. And I understand that Mr Gs switch 
didnt proceed as seamlessly as he expected and the stress this undoubtedly caused. But, I 
think this stems from C not being subscribed to the CASS which NWB were unable to 
control. I think NWB acted fairly and reasonably by attempting to process the manual switch 
as quickly as they could, acting in Mr Gs best interests and I hope my explanation goes 
some way to providing Mr G with some closure on a situation I can see hes been left 
frustrated by.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman