DRN-4252621
The complaint
Mr N complains about contact from HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to a closed bank account. 
What happened
Mr N had a current account that was closed by HSBC with an outstanding balance of 
£481.81 in September 2021. HSBC recorded a default on Mr Ns credit file. 
Mr N has made complaints about the circumstances under which has account was closed by 
HSBC. In April 2022 another ombudsman at this service issued a final decision that said 
HSBC had fairly taken the decision to close Mr Ns account. 
Towards the end of 2022 HSBC attempted to contact Mr N to discuss the outstanding 
balance on the closed account to see if there were any options to agree an affordable 
payment plan. HSBC wrote to Mr N in November 2022 and he went on to complain about the 
contact hed received. 
HSBC issued a final response on 20 January 2023 but didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
HSBC apologised for any inconvenience caused but said it had legitimately contacted Mr N 
to discuss affordable repayment options for the outstanding balance. HSBC added it wanted 
to review Mr Ns circumstances to see whether there were any affordable options available. 
HSBC paid Mr N £75 as hed explained branch staff provided contradictory information and 
had told him not to worry about the calls and letters he received regarding the outstanding 
balance. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ns complaint. They werent persuaded HSBC 
had made a mistake or treated Mr N unfairly by contacting him about the outstanding 
balance. Mr N asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Ns submissions and complaint letters talk about various issues that impacted his account 
with HSBC both before and after it was closed. But I need to explain that Mr N has already 
referred a complaint about the way HSBC closed his account to us. Another ombudsman 
has already reached the decision that HSBC dealt with Mr N fairly and that its move to close 
his account was reasonable. As another ombudsman has already made a decision on those 
issues, Im unable to comment on them again here. 
In this case, Im looking at the contact HSBC has made with Mr N in the last year, after the 
previous ombudsmans decision was issued. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but Im unable to agree that HSBC acted unfairly by contacting 
him about the outstanding balance on his account. I understand the account was closed at 
default, but the balance remains outstanding. HSBC has a legitimate reason to attempt 
contact with Mr N to discuss whether there are any suitable repayment options for him. 
Ive reviewed the letters and contact HSBC attempted. I havent seen any evidence of 
threatening language or intimidation from HSBC. HSBCs letters request Mr N makes 
contact to discuss his circumstances so it can look at whether there are affordable ways to 
repay the outstanding balance. Whilst I understand Mr N may not be in a position to make 
payments towards the debt, Im satisfied its reasonable for HSBC to contact him and ask for 
information about his circumstances. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr N but I havent been persuaded that HSBC has acted unfairly 
or made a mistake. Mr N should be aware that HSBC is likely to continue to contact him 
about the outstanding balance. As I havent been persuaded HSBC acted unfairly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman