DRN-3952549
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money handled a 
chargeback request. He would like the full amount of his chargeback claim refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
As I understand it Virgin Money turned down Mr Ts initial chargeback request for a 
refund of £415.99 for a car service, MOT, and repairs as Mr T didnt provide any 
evidence to support his claim for work carried out on his car which either wasnt 
done, or done incorrectly leading to damage to his car. From the information Virgin 
Money supplied its clear it requested information several times but didnt get it. 
Chargeback claims do need to be evidenced so I dont think Virgin Money were 
unreasonable to decline the initial chargeback request due to lack of evidence.
It seems Virgin Money then agreed, in a phone call with Mr T, to claim £223.79 back 
for specific items. Mr T disputes this. As Virgin Money hasnt provided the phone call, 
or notes from it, I cant be sure what it agreed or not with Mr T.
I appreciate Mr Ts frustration that Virgin Money only put in a partial claim on his 
behalf. And as the claim was successful he feels it should have tried to claim the full 
amount. Virgin Money said the grounds for this partial chargeback were weak, so if  
the merchant defended the claim then an independent report would be needed.  I 
think it was right to attempt a chargeback, but the Chargeback scheme is governed 
by a set of rules set by the relevant scheme. Its also a voluntary one, so whilst we do 
expect businesses to attempt a claim if it feels theres a reasonable chance of 
success, its not a scheme whereby a business automatically puts in a claim. It does 
need to decide if there are grounds to do so.
Its frustrating that Virgin Money hasnt responded to our requests to explain what 
items it claimed for and why. Mr T says he cant provide this information as he wasnt 
given it. So, I dont know what the basis for the partial claim was . 
However, I dont feel its fair to ask Virgin Money to refund the rest of Mr Ts claim. Mr 
Ts claim was for labour charges for a car service, repairs, and the cost of an MOT 
which I understand Mr T accepts he should pay for, and the parts associated with 
both the service and repairs. Chargeback claims are expected to be evidenced. Mr T 
hasnt provided any evidence of work not done , done incorrectly or of damage to his 
car. I think he could have evidenced this by getting an independent report. Without 
this information I am unable to say if it would have been reasonable for Virgin Money 
to have put in a claim for the full cost of the work done or not.
Finally, I  appreciate Mr T wasnt happy with the service he received from Virgin 
Money. Virgin Money has apologised for the time it took to deal with Mr Ts complaint 
and for calls not being returned. As a gesture of goodwill it has paid Mr T a total of 
£100 compensation which I feel is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman