DRN-2347913
The complaint
Mr M complains that the analysis performed by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services 
Limited (HLAS) on a possible transfer of pension benefits wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Specifically he says that it was based on a number of incorrect pieces of information and 
failed to provide him with the level of detail that he was expecting. And he says that the 
production of the analysis took far longer than he had been advised it would when he agreed 
for HLAS to undertake the work.
What happened
Mr M holds deferred pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme. Those benefits 
are defined in nature and would provide Mr M with a guaranteed annuity income when he 
retires. Mr M is considering the transfer of those deferred benefits into a personal pension 
arrangement and engaged HLAS to provide him with some analysis, and potentially later 
some advice, about that proposed transfer.
Mr M says that he had previously taken advice, in 2014, about the transfer of his 
occupational pension benefits. He didnt proceed with the transfer at that time, but says that 
over the years he has implemented a number of the recommendations that were made in the 
advice he was given in 2014 to provide better financial security in retirement for him and his 
wife. In 2019 he engaged HLAS to perform some analysis of the financial impacts of 
transferring his occupational pension benefits. He says that he asked HLAS to do this work 
primarily to validate the assessments he had made himself.
HLAS gathered information from Mr M and his occupational pension scheme. It used that 
information to produce a Pension Transfer Analysis report (generally called a TVAS report) 
that looked at the guaranteed benefits Mr M would be giving up by transferring out of the 
occupational pension scheme, and the investment growth he would need to achieve on his 
transferred pension savings in order to match those benefits.
Throughout the analysis process Mr M says that HLAS warned him that it might not 
recommend that he transfer his pension benefits. Mr M says that conclusion didnt concur 
with his own analysis but allowed the process to continue. When the analysis ultimately 
concluded that it was unlikely that it would be financially advantageous for the transfer to be 
made Mr M decided to terminate the work that HLAS was performing. So HLAS didnt 
complete the analysis process, or provide any formal advice to Mr M about transferring his 
pension benefits.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that HLAS 
needed to do anything to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Ultimately he thought that the TVAS 
report had been based on correct information about the benefits that were due to Mr M and 
had followed the regulators guidance in its creation. He thought that the work HLAS had 
performed had been valid. Although he accepted that the work had taken longer than HLAS 
had originally thought, he didnt think those delays had caused Mr M any financial loss. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with that 
assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by HLAS. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. In order to uphold a complaint I would need to find that something has gone 
wrong and that a consumer has lost out as a result. I would then ask the business to put 
things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have 
been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The transfer of pension benefits from a defined benefit occupational scheme to a personal 
pension is something that has caused great concern to the regulator over recent years. So it 
has issued detailed guidance to firms about the steps that need to be undertaken when 
providing analysis and advice about such transfers. In particular the regulator has told firms 
that they should formulate their advice from a starting point that a transfer of this nature is 
unlikely to be suitable. And I think it was that advice that HLAS reflected in a number of the 
early conversations it had with Mr M about the analysis it was performing.
Ive looked carefully at the TVAS report that HLAS prepared for Mr M. That report appears to 
correctly reflect the firms obligations under the regulations, and the key matters that it 
needed to consider. So I havent seen anything that would make me think the preparation of 
that report, or the information that it contained was in any way deficient.
Mr Ms occupational benefits had been accrued over a number of years. And, as a result of 
changes his then employer had made to its pension offering, different tranches of his 
pension benefits attracted different terms. In particular some of his pension benefits were 
predicated on an expected retirement age of 65, whereas others were based on a retirement 
age of just 60 years of age. So the analysis that HLAS performed needed to consider the 
impact of retirement at those two ages  and from my review of the document it achieved 
that requirement.
Mr M has particularly complained that the TVAS report failed to take account of the 
possibility that he might take his pension benefits before he reached age 60  he was 57 at 
the time the report was created. But the regulators rules only require that analysis to be 
performed if taking the benefits early would not result in them being reduced by the 
occupational scheme. I understand that Mr Ms pension would have been reduced if he took 
his benefits before the relevant retirement age. And HLAS was intending to supplement its 
TVAS with further analysis on Mr M taking his benefits early at a later stage of the process. 
That work didnt complete given Mr M ended his relationship with HLAS for its analysis.The analysis that HLAS performed suggested that by transferring his occupational pension 
benefits Mr M would be significantly worse off in financial terms. I accept that isnt the only 
measure by which HLAS should assess the suitability of the proposed transfer, and I am 
sure that HLAS would have considered those other matters further when it came to providing 
Mr M with some formal advice. But in basic financial terms, HLASs analysis suggested Mr M 
might need to pay an additional £884,105 to secure the same benefits if he transferred his 
pension savings. So it would be understandable if HLAS found it difficult to support Mr Ms 
wish to transfer his pension savings.
Before transferring his pension from the occupational scheme Mr M was required by the 
regulator to take advice. It wasnt necessary for that advice to support his wish to transfer his 
pension savings  he could have proceeded as what is known as an insistent client. 
I understand his preferred future pension provider wouldnt have accepted a transfer on that 
basis, but there are many pension providers that would allow a transfer on those terms.
In order to provide Mr M with analysis of his proposed pension transfer HLAS needed to 
gather, and carefully analyse, information from a number of sources, including Mr M, and his 
occupational pension scheme. I can see that the completion of the analysis report took 
longer than had originally been planned. But I cant fairly say that Mr M was disadvantaged 
by that delay. His occupational scheme extended the time that it guaranteed his transfer 
value by a further three months. But ultimately, although I doubt that HLAS would have 
advised him to transfer his pension savings, a transfer could have been completed within the 
necessary timescales.
Mr M has told us that another firm has performed similar analysis and conclude that it would 
be financially advantageous for his to transfer his pension benefits. Those calculations are 
complex, and require specialist actuarial skills for their completion. It isnt for me to judge 
whether the analysis performed by HLAS, or that of the other firm, is more correct. But 
I havent seen anything in the methodology used by HLAS that would make me think its 
analysis was outside what might be expected.
In summary I think the TVAS report that HLAS prepared was in line with its responsibilities 
and its agreement with Mr M. Whilst it might not have reached the conclusion that Mr M 
anticipated, or even that reached by another firm, I havent seen anything to make me think 
that HLAS failed in its responsibilities to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman