DRN-4185829
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the refusal of a claim under his home buildings insurance policy 
with U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI).
What happened
Mr E had home insurance with UKI for many years. In January 2023, Mr E contacted UKI as 
a pipe had burst causing water damage to the property. Mr E told UKI that the leak 
happened on 28 December 2022 but he was not living there, as he was in the process of 
selling the property. Mr E said hed put the property on the market in May/June 2022. A sale 
had been agreed but it fell through in October 2022. 
UKI asked Mr E for copies of utility bills to show that the property had been occupied in the 
period before the leak happened, as Mr Es policy excludes cover for burst pipes if they are 
unoccupied for more than 60 days. In response, Mr E said the person that had been living in 
the property had closed their electricity account in June/July 2022, when they moved out, so 
he was unable to provide any bills.  
In February 2023, UKI refused the claim, as it considered that the property had been 
unoccupied for more than 60 days when the leak happened and therefore was not covered.  
Mr E is very unhappy with this and says there has been a breakdown of communication 
between UKI and its agents. He says he was not aware of the exclusion applied, as he did 
not get the policy documentation when it renewed in September 2022,
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld, as she did not think that UKI had acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing the 
claim. 
Mr E does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of points in 
support of his initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. I have considered 
everything he has said but have summarised his main points below:
The Investigator has clearly taken the businesss side.
He told UKI many times that he had moved address but it was never considered. 
As UKI didnt record his correct address and mobile number he did not receive the 
renewal documents in September 2022 and was not aware of the policy terms about 
occupancy.
UKI apologized for having the wrong number and address, thereby admitting its 
mistake but the Investigator has not considered this properly.
He spoke to many different people at UKI, who were clearly not familiar with the case 
notes. This went on for many months. 
UKI and the Investigator should have spoken to his lawyer and estate agent 
regarding the sale of the property and the advice he received from them, which was 
to move out early. Nobody leaves moving out to the final day. 
The only time he was aware of the 60 day ruling was when the investigation seriously 
began in April 2023. 
He repeatedly said the property was not rented out but family and friends were 
allowed to use it when he was working away. UKI was also aware of this but falsely 
accused him of renting the property out with no evidence, which is disgusting.
He said his partner moved out, as he was away working, in late July 2022 and his  
partner had called UKI in 2022 to tell it about the change of address but the recording 
of this call is not available. 
He got the policy documents in 2021 but these are irrelevant to a claim made in 
2023. 
UKI made fundamental mistakes which has never been highlighted and his points  
were either dismissed or not properly reviewed.
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms
Mr Es policy provides the following cover: 
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by
Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems
We also cover water or oil escaping from:
> underground drains and pipes
> domestic appliances
> storage tanks.
X We don't cover:
* loss or damage when it has been more than 60 days since you last slept at your 
home on a regular basis (which doesn't include occasional visits or stays).
The policy also states: 
Changes that may affect your cover
You must tell us as soon as possible about any changes that could affect the level 
and/or cover of your insurance, eg:
> you change the address where you normally live 
> you let your home out to tenants or a lodger moves in.
This is in my opinion, sufficiently clear and unambiguous. The policy does not cover damage 
caused by escape of water if it is unoccupied for more than 60 days at the time of the loss.
This term is also not unusual or inherently unfair; and is common to almost all home 
buildings insurance policies that I am aware of. The policy also requires the policyholder to 
tell it of any changes, including regarding the occupancy of the property. As Mr E had said to UKI at the outset of the claim that he was not living in the property, it 
asked for information about who was living there. Mr E says UKI falsely accused him of 
renting the property out and became confused about the situation. 
I do not agree. In the evidence provided to me it seems Mr E has given different information 
at various stages in the claim. In January 2023, Mr E called UKI to ask for copies of his 
policy documents, In that call he talked about the need to get copies of utility bills and said 
the person that used to be in his house had left in June 2022 and as they went to another 
property, they no longer had access to the bills for his property. 
He has also said that he and his partner had moved out, as it was being sold and that his 
partner moved out in late July 2022. 
 
UKI also provided evidence that a claim had been notified on Mr Es policy in 2021 by 
someone that said they were his tenant. 
Mr E also suggested that he let relatives stay in the property if he was not using it but has 
not provided any convincing evidence it was occupied after June 2022
I do not think I need to make any finding as to whether the property was rented out or not,  
as I do not think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. However, I think UKI 
made reasonable enquiries of Mr E to try and establish if the property was occupied. 
Having considered all the evidence available to me, it seems more likely than not to me that 
the property was unoccupied since end of July 2022 (or earlier), which is more than 60 days 
before the date of the damage (i.e December 2022). The policy exclusion does therefore 
apply and there is no cover for the damage. 
Mr E has said he was advised to move out by his agents and lawyers, in preparation for the 
new buyer, and that we and UKI should have contacted them to confirm this. We would not 
normally contact third parties to obtain evidence on behalf of either party in this way. But in 
any case, it doesnt matter why Mr E moved out, only that the property was unoccupied. 
I therefore consider that the claim is excluded from cover, as the policy does not cover 
escape of water if the property has been unoccupied for more than 60 days at the time the 
damage occurs and the property was unoccupied. 
Mr E has also suggested the policy terms should not be applied as he was not aware of 
them, as he didnt receive the September 2022 renewal documents. I will consider this 
below.
Should the policy terms apply?
Mr E confirms he received the renewal documents in September 2021. This is the policy that 
was in force at the time he says he moved out of the insured address. 
He says his partner phoned UKI in 2022 to inform it that they were moving out but he has not 
confirmed the phone number this call was made from or the date it was made despite 
requests. UKI says it has no record of any call. 
I have listened to two call recordings between Mr E and UKI, one in January 2023 when he 
called to ask for a copy of his policy documents. In that call Mr E updated his address with 
UKI. There is no mention in that call that Mr E had previously changed the address. Mr E 
says that UKI apologised to him in this call thereby admitting its mistake with the address. I do not agree that UKI apologised for not having his current address in that call or in any 
way indicated that it should have had his new address already. 
The second call is one from April 2023. In this call Mr E was explaining to UKI that he had 
not been aware of the 60 day exclusion applied to his claim, as he had not received the 
policy renewal documents in September 2022. He did not mention in that call that he or his 
partner had update UKI with their new address. Instead he said that because of the move he 
had not told UKI his new address and the policy documents went to the insured address. He 
said: the problem with this as well with regards to the policy we moved but actually didnt 
sort  on our behalf, its our fault the policy went to the address where the damage was 
done  I take responsibility  
Having considered all the evidence available, I am unable to conclude that UKI was at fault 
for not changing the address before the renewal in September 2022. The policy was 
delivered to the correct address that UKI had on its records at the time. The fact Mr E might 
not have been aware of the particular exclusion applied, does not mean UKI is not entitled to 
rely on it.  
Mr E also says that he had the same email for the entire time he had the policy but UK didnt 
have that. There is no evidence to establish that this was UKIs fault but in any case it seems 
the email address was not used to send the renewal documents to Mr E (apart from when he 
asked that the documents from September 2022 be sent by email urgently) so this would not 
have made any difference to this matter. .
However even if Mr E did inform UKI that he had moved and it was its fault he did not get the 
renewal documents, Id need to be satisfied that he would have done something differently if 
he had received those documents. As the occupancy term is common to most household 
insurance policies and was the same in 2021 and 2022, I am not persuaded it is likely that 
Mr E would have done anything differently even if he had seen the renewal documents in 
September 2022. 
Other matters
Mr E is also unhappy with the way the claim was handled. He says he was falsely accused 
of renting the house out; every point he raised was dismissed and it is clear in the call 
recordings that UKI was not clear in what they were saying to him.
I have listened to the phone calls and looked at the evidence provided to me. I do not agree 
that UKI mishandled the claim. As stated above, it had cause to think the house was being 
rented out and made reasonable enquiries about that. I also dont think it took an 
unreasonable time in doing so and giving Mr E its decision. While I can understand Mr Es 
disappointment that his claim is not being met, I do not think UKI handled the claim unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman