DRN-1900969
The complaint
Miss S complains about information Bank of Scotland Plc recorded on her credit file about a 
loan she had. 
What happened
Miss S previously had a loan with Bank of Scotland. It was closed and defaulted in 2007.
In 2017, the details of this defaulted loan were added again, in error, to Miss S credit file. 
Miss S says she first discovered this when she applied for a student account with another 
bank in 2019 and was turned down. The other bank advised to check her credit file, which 
she did and discovered the default from 2017.
 
Miss S wrote to Bank of Scotland about this in June 2019. They said they hadnt done it, and 
assumed it was the third party that now owned the debt. Nonetheless, they contacted the 
third party, asked for the default to be removed and offered Miss S £60 as a gesture of 
goodwill. They also offered to cover the cost of Miss S checking her credit file the following 
month.
Miss S wasnt happy with this response and she wasnt happy Bank of Scotland tried to 
contact her by phone and email when she wrote to them to ask for the default to be 
removed. She was unhappy the bank had used contact information it held for her under 
another of the brands in its banking group to do this. So she referred her complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered Miss S complaint. He said, in summary, that based on 
what hed seen he thought it likely it was Bank of Scotland that had made the mistake rather 
than the third party. So he recommended Miss S complaint was upheld and thought Bank of 
Scotland should pay Miss S a total of £150 (including the £60 it had already offered) in 
recognition of the worry and inconvenience caused. But he didnt think it was unreasonable 
for Bank of Scotland to have used the contact details it held for Miss S elsewhere across its 
brands to try and get in touch with her to discuss things. 
Bank of Scotland accepted the Investigators recommendation.
Miss S didnt agree with the Investigators recommendation. She said this was because she 
felt Bank of Scotland had been recording information incorrectly for a number of years prior 
to 2017. And this had caused her to be forced to take much more expensive credit than she 
otherwise would have.
 
Our Investigator reconsidered the case, including a copy of Miss S credit file, but could find 
no evidence to suggest that Bank of Scotland had wrongly registered any information, other 
than the 2017 information which had now been removed. So his recommendation remained 
that Bank of Scotland should pay Miss S £150 to resolve the complaint.
 
Miss S remained unhappy and asked that an Ombudsman reviewed her complaint. So the 
complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses have an obligation to record accurate information on a customers 
credit file. Theres no dispute that the information recorded in 2017 shouldnt have been 
added to Miss S credit file. Bank of Scotland have now accepted the Investigators 
recommendations in that respect and deleted the information. So what remains for me to 
decide is whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to put things right.
Miss S says £150 isnt enough because Bank of Scotlands been registering incorrect 
information over the last 16 years. She says this has meant shes been forced to take out a 
hire purchase agreement that was more expensive than she otherwise couldve got and has 
caused her other financial issues. 
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit file. I can see that this is dated October 2018. It 
shows entries as far back as 2012 for some accounts, and 2014 for others. So its not up to 
date and doesnt go back as far as the 16 years Miss S says shes been having problems.
 
However, other than the incorrect 2017 entry by Bank of Scotland I can see no other 
information registered by Bank of Scotland. We also asked Bank of Scotland if they had any 
other information relating to entries they made on Miss S credit file prior to 2017. Bank of 
Scotland said they couldnt provide anything else because Miss S loan was so old they no 
longer had access to the relevant system. In the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly find 
that Bank of Scotland have made other mistakes prior to 2017 on Miss S credit file as she 
says they have. 
Also, Miss S has told us shes paying more for her car under the hire purchase agreement 
than she otherwise would be because of Bank of Scotlands mistake. But I can see the 
agreement for her car was taken out on 3 February 2017. The wrong entry made by bank 
was dated 22 February 2017. So I think its unlikely that this affected her application for the 
hire purchase because it was taken out before the incorrect information was recorded.
 
I can see Miss S feels very strongly about what happened but, based on everything Ive 
seen I cant find any other information registered on her credit file by Bank of Scotland. 
Miss S says she discovered this default in 2019 when she was declined for a student 
account with another bank. But, as Ive said, the copy of her credit file shes shown us from 
October 2018 shows the 2017 default  so its not clear to me why she didnt raise it with the 
bank then. It seems likely therefore that it hadnt affected her prior to June 2019 when she 
applied for her student account. And as soon as she reported it to the bank, it was removed 
very quickly. So, taking all of this into account, I think £150 is fair and reasonable to reflect 
the worry and inconvenience she was caused by the incorrect information being reported on 
her credit file. 
Miss S was also unhappy that when she contacted them asking for the default to be 
removed, Bank of Scotland tried to call her and sent an email even though shed written to 
them. They had access to these contact details for Miss S because she banks with another 
of its brands. I dont think it was unreasonable to try and contact Miss S to talk about things. 
But as Miss S didnt want that, Bank of Scotland did then write to her. Nor do I think its 
unreasonable for them to have used the contact information it held for her within its wider 
banking group.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint in part. 
To put things right, I require Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Miss S a total of £150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman