DRN-4293684
The complaint
Ms W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (who Ill call Capital One) were unreasonable 
not to remove a credit marker they had reported to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms W, but I dont think Capital One have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Information Commissioners Office Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies says that lenders that supply data to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRA) are required to ensure that the data is accurate, up to date and 
meets agreed quality standards.
That appears to be the case here. Ms W was required to make a payment of £117.71 by 8 
April 2022 but payment wasnt made until 3 May 2022.
The terms of the account explain that the bank may report information about the conduct of 
the account to the CRAs.
So, I cant say that Capital One have been unreasonable to do so. They didnt have to agree 
to Ms Ws request to remove the marker
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman