DRN-1484844
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Health-on-line Company UK Limited mis-sold them private 
medical insurance for Mrs C.
 
What happened
In November 2016 Mr C spoke to Health-on-line as the administrator of his private medical 
insurance policy. He discussed adding his wife to his business cover, as she was due to 
start working with him the following year. Health-on-line explained Mr C had a private policy 
paid for by his business, but that Mrs C could also get a private policy paid for in the same 
way. Mr C explained that his wife suffered from an existing health condition, so he wasnt 
sure if he would be able to get cover for this, or if he would get a policy that excluded cover 
for this. Health-on-line went through a quote with him and explained that her policy would 
also be on a moratorium basis like his and Mr C acknowledged this. He asked for the quote 
to be saved for a later date, when his wife had joined his business.
In February 2017 Mr C contacted Health-on-line again as his wife was now working for his 
company, so he wished to add her to his cover. Health-on-line retrieved the saved quote and 
Mr C went ahead with cover for Mrs C.
In early 2019 Mr C contacted Health-on-line about Mrs C making a future claim on the policy. 
She was due to attend her annual review of her condition in the upcoming months, so Mr C 
wanted to confirm cover. At this time Mrs C had held the policy for two years and hadnt had 
any reason to seek medical assistance for her existing condition, other than for its routine 
management. So Mr C believed shed now satisfied the moratorium and she should be 
covered for claims relating to her condition.
Health-on-line responded on behalf of the policys underwriter. It explained that as the 
routine management of Mrs Cs condition involved taking medication and visiting a medical 
practitioner, she wasnt able to meet the definition of trouble-free, so her condition was not 
now covered. It set out that a chronic condition like Mrs Cs was unlikely to ever be covered, 
due to the care and medication she needed to manage it.
Mr C raised a complaint with Health-on-line as he believed it had mis-sold him Mrs Cs 
policy. He said that the way the moratorium impacted Mrs C hadnt been made clear to him 
in the sales calls. He set out that hed given full details about her medication and annual 
reviews but that Health-on-line had told him she would be covered after two years. So while 
he and Mrs C did note the policy wording, they didnt consider it applied to Mrs Cs existing 
condition due to how it affects her and the conversation Mr C had had.
Health-on-line didnt uphold their complaint so they came to our service. Our investigator 
also didnt uphold the complaint. She set out the definition of trouble-free and why Mrs C 
didnt meet this. And she didnt think Health-on-line had mis-sold the policy based on the call recordings we had. Mr C disagreed and said there was an earlier call than we had. And he 
said the cover was pointless for Mrs C and the policy was mis-sold. So the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that Health-on-line called him on 17 November 2016 and asked him why Mrs C 
wasnt on the plan. He said he explained Mrs Cs condition and it said it would be able to 
quote for cover. Then he asked about the cover available to Mrs C two years after taking out 
the plan if her existing condition didnt deteriorate during that time. He describes being put 
on hold and then the adviser confirmed Mrs C would be covered if she was trouble-free for 
two years. Mr C also says that in the phone call on 1 February 2017, when he called to add 
Mrs C on the previously discussed, he confirmed her annual review with a consultant, her 
medication and the cover available. And at this time he wasnt told Mrs Cs medication or 
treatment meant she wouldnt be able to be trouble-free.
However on listening to both calls, I cant agree that this is the way either conversation goes. 
The calls we have are dated the same dates Mr C has referenced. And the content doesnt 
suggest other calls have taken place on those dates, but they dont include the level of detail 
hes now describing. And he is the one that initiates the first call, not Health-on-line. 
In the November 2016 call Mr C says hes calling as his wife will be joining his company (and 
then has joined by the February 2017 call) so this is why hes calling to discuss adding her. 
And he says he doesnt want to add her during the first call as shes still with her current 
employment. Mr C does discuss Mrs Cs condition in both calls, but he doesnt specify during 
either call that she takes regular medication or discuss her annual review appointments.
In the first call Mr C sets out that his wife has her existing condition, so he suspects they will 
end up looking to have the cover limited to anything outside of Mrs Cs condition due to 
either the limitations of the policy or the very high premium involved with covering this 
condition. So Mr C doesnt specifically set out that he is looking for a quote where Mrs Cs 
condition is covered or will become covered. The advisor then looks into a quote and the call 
goes:
Advisor: She [Mrs C] would be added on as a moratorium, so all that means is that if she has 
had any conditions within the five years prior to joining us, we would call that a pre-existing 
condition and wouldnt look to cover that. However once shes gone two years trouble-free 
from joining us
Mr C: And thats the, thats that what Ive got on mine, yeah yes thats fine
Advisor: Thats it, yes exactly the same for you
 
On listening to the calls I dont think Health-on-line incorrectly tells Mr C that Mrs C will be 
covered for her existing condition after two years. The advisors arent medically trained and 
the details of her condition are also not discussed in a way that the advisor would know 
Mrs C wouldnt be able to meet the definition of trouble-free after two years. And Mr C 
doesnt ask for any further information about this definition in the call. Following the second call where Mrs C was added to the policy they were then sent full 
policy documentation which does provide the definition of trouble-free and set our their 
cooling-off period. So at this time Mr and Mrs C couldve checked the policy was suitable for 
their needs and decided if they still wanted to go ahead. 
Mr C has also said that he was told the policy covered Mrs C in the same way as hes 
covered  and he is covered for all conditions. I agree that the advisor does agree when 
Mr C asks if Mrs Cs cover is the same as his. But this doesnt change the conversation they 
had just had where the advisor explains Mrs C is being covered on a moratorium basis. And 
she is covered in the same way as Mr C as the terms are the same, but the cover she 
actually receives will be dependent on how the policy terms impact her.
I appreciate Mr C has set out that the cover was mis-sold and said that its pointless to him. 
But it seems that during the quotation call he was considering Mrs C having a policy just 
without her pre-existing condition covered  which is the situation he did end up in. And any 
future claims she did make would be assessed with medical evidence to confirm whether the 
condition was linked to Mrs Cs existing condition, this wouldnt just be assumed. So I also 
dont think this means the policy was mis-sold.
I dont think Health-on-line did give Mr C incorrect information about the cover available to 
Mrs C. So I dont agree that Health-on-line mis-sold her policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman