DRN-4350378
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions (Profile 
Pensions) switched his two existing personal pensions to a new arrangement with a new 
provider without his consent. Mr H is also concerned about the data security measures 
followed during a telephone call he had with Profile Pensions. 
What happened
In 2017 Profile Pensions advised Mr H to transfer (switch) two personal pensions he held 
with Phoenix and Standard Life into a new pension arrangement with Scottish Widows. 
Profile Pensions arranged the transfers, which completed in March 2017.
In 2023 Mr H realised what had happened and complained. Profile Pensions listened to the 
recordings of Mr Hs telephone calls and identified that he hadnt agreed to his pensions 
being transferred as he wanted to check the documentation first. Profile Pensions put the
transfers down to human error. It upheld the complaint and made an offer to put things right. 
Profile Pensions had considered how Mr Hs existing pension had performed against his 
previous pensions and found he was better off because of the transfers. Profile Pensions 
offered to refund the initial adviser fee Mr H had paid plus 8% compounded interest (this 
would be put back into Mr Hs pension) and pay him £200 for the trouble and upset the 
mistake had caused.
 
Mr H wasnt happy with that and referred his complaint to us. When the investigator looked 
into what had happened he asked Profile Pensions to also refund all ongoing adviser fees 
together with 8% compounded interest (which would also be put back into Mr Hs pension). 
Profile Pensions agreed to do so. 
The investigator didnt think Profile Pensions needed to do anymore. He said the value of Mr 
Hs pension fund had increased by more than if the funds had remained with the existing 
providers so Mr H hadnt suffered any financial loss. Profile Pensions had also agreed to 
refund the fees paid with interest, so paying back money which would otherwise have 
remained in Mr Hs pension fund. Although finding out that Profile Pensions had transferred 
his pensions without his consent wouldve been a worrying time, it had since been shown 
that the new pension had performed better. The investigator thought £200 was fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H. 
Profile Pensions had acknowledged the mistake about the security questions Mr H had been 
asked over the telephone. The investigator understood Mr H wouldve been concerned that 
someone couldve been given his details by mistake. But it had been Mr H who was calling 
and so that hadnt happened. Profile Pensions had agreed to feedback about the call for 
ongoing security purposes. The investigator said he wouldnt be asking Profile Pensions to 
do any more in respect of this aspect of the matter. 
Overall the investigator thought what Profile Pensions had offered to do was fair. It ensured 
Mr H wasnt financially disadvantaged because of the transfers and that he was 
compensated for the worry caused.
Mr H didnt accept what the investigator had said. Mr H raised some further points to which 
the investigator responded.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr H may disagree but I havent seen anything to suggest what happened was other 
than a mistake on Profile Pensions part. I note that Profile Pensions contacted Mr H in 2023 
offering him a review of his pension with Scottish Widows. I cant see that wouldve 
happened if Profile Pensions didnt want Mr H to know that his pensions had been switched.  
From what Ive seen, in 2017 Profile Pensions proceeded on the basis Mr H had agreed to 
the switches when he actually wanted more time to consider if he should go ahead. So 
Profile Pensions acted prematurely in actioning the switches.
Where, as here, a business accepts that its made a mistake and has offered to put things 
right, well look at if the offer thats been made is fair and reasonable. As the investigator has 
explained, it isnt for us to punish or fine the business concerned. Our aim in awarding 
redress is to try to put the consumer, as far as possible, back in the position theyd be in if 
things had gone as they shouldve done. 
Mr H says hes stuck in a pension that he didnt ask for or want and hes suggested his 
previous pensions should be reinstated. He also doesnt think, given the circumstances, that 
Scottish Widows should benefit from his business. While I can understand Mr Hs stance, 
unfortunately it isnt practical or possible to try to reverse the switches. They were 
undertaken in 2017 and involved other businesses (the two existing providers and the new 
provider) who arent a party to this complaint. We cant compel them to take any action. And, 
in any event, where we think something has gone wrong, we generally wouldnt look to 
unwind whats happened. Instead well look to see whether the consumer has been left 
worse off financially. 
I know Mr H is concerned about how come Standard Life and Phoenix released his pension 
funds when he says he didnt sign anything. I also note what he says about not getting any 
information about his (new) pension with Scottish Widows for some six years. Im not sure 
why that wouldve been and if all information was sent to Profile Pensions as Mr Hs adviser. 
But I dont agree with what hes said about someone helping themselves to his money. His 
accumulated pension fund has remained throughout in a regulated pension arrangement in 
his name with a reputable and authorised business. I dont think its been at risk as such. Its 
up to Mr H if he wants to raise complaints against Standard Life and Phoenix and/or Scottish 
Widows. 
All Im considering here is Mr Hs complaint about Profile Pensions. And, as Ive said, Im 
going to focus on whether hes lost out financially because of the switches made without his 
consent and which, for whatever reason, he only found out about some six years later. So 
Ive looked at what his financial position wouldve been if the switches hadnt taken place. 
From what Ive seen, Mr H is better off as a result of the switches in that the value of his 
pension fund is higher than the combined value of his two previous pensions wouldve been 
if hed stayed with those providers. 
Mr H may not have been convinced by the methodology adopted by Profile Pensions. But I 
think it was fair and reasonable. As the investigator noted, there are sometimes different approaches that can be taken as to how redress in a particular case should be calculated. If 
we consider an offer thats been made is broadly fair and reasonable then we probably 
wouldnt interfere even if we thought redress couldve been calculated differently. 
Profile Pensions estimated that Mr Hs pensions with Standard Life and Phoenix wouldve 
been worth, as at 5 April 2023, £11,482.59 and £19,244.73 respectively, so, in total, 
£30,727.32. The fund value of the pension with Scottish Widows was, at the same date, 
£36,652.03. On that basis Mr H hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of his pensions 
being switched.
Weve checked that by asking Mr Hs previous providers  Standard Life and Phoenix  to let 
us know what they thought Mr Hs pension funds wouldve been worth if theyd remained 
with them. Standard Life gave us an estimated fund value (as at 17 October 2023) of 
£11,160.37. Phoenix gave us a figure of £21,321.69 (as at 16 October 2023). So a combined 
fund value of £32,482.06. Scottish Widows told us that Mr Hs fund value as at 29 November 
2023 was £33,959.71. Although the dates arent exactly the same (it took Scottish Widows a 
little time to provide a fund value) I think theyre close enough to confirm Mr Hs fund value 
with Scottish Widows (although it seems to have dipped slightly since Profile Pensions 
calculations were carried out) is higher than it wouldve been if hed remained with his 
existing providers. All in all Im satisfied Mr H hasnt suffered any financial loss in 
consequence of the switches. 
Going forwards its a matter for Mr H, if hes unhappy about his pension remaining with 
Scottish Widows, to look into possibly switching again. Mr H may say hell have to pay for 
further advice. But the advice fee he paid to Profile Pensions has been refunded (with 
interest). Mr H was thinking about switching his pensions in 2017 (even if that was only 
because hed been cold called). He did engage with Profile Pensions, even if he stopped 
short of making a firm decision to switch and instructing Profile Pensions accordingly. Hed 
have had to pay for Profile Pensions advice anyway, even if hed decided against switching. 
As thats been refunded hes no worse off if he now has to pay for further advice. 
As the investigator said, Mr H can check with Scottish Widows that Profile Pensions is no 
longer being paid any ongoing adviser fees. And ensure that Scottish Widows has his 
correct details and that any information pertaining to his pension, including annual 
statements, are sent direct to Mr H. He may also be able to arrange to get online access to 
monitor his pension, if thats a facility that Scottish Widows offers for this type of pension.  
Im not sure if Mr H is querying how some of the amounts Profile Pensions has offered have 
been calculated  such as how interest has been worked out on the fee refunds. Id assume, 
if details havent already been provided, that Profile Pensions can give Mr H a breakdown, in 
a clear and simple format, for any figures hes unsure about.  
As well as financial loss, well also look at if any material distress and inconvenience has 
been suffered. I know Mr H considers £200 isnt adequate but I think its in line with what 
wed award in a case such as this. Mr H may say things have been ongoing for some six 
years but I dont think there was any impact on Mr H until he became aware that his 
pensions had been switched without his consent. 
We give some examples on our website of the levels of compensation that we might award. 
We say an award of up to £300 might be fair when theres been a large single mistake which 
I think is the situation here. In deciding what amount of compensation would be fair in a 
particular case we take into account the impact of the mistake including the time taken to 
sort it out. Here I think Profile Pensions did try to lessen the impact of what had happened by 
admitting that something had gone wrong and offering to try to put things right for Mr H.  As to the data breaches, I dont seek to underplay the importance of caller verification to 
ensure that whoever is calling is indeed the person they claim to be. But as Ive said we 
dont fine businesses and here any breach was confined and fortunately didnt result in any 
adverse consequences for Mr H. 
All in all I maintain that what Profile Pensions has offered (refunds of initial adviser fee and 
ongoing advice fees plus interest and £200 for distress and inconvenience) is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions has offered to take the steps 
set out above to settle Mr Hs complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions takes 
those steps.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman