DRN-3219809
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation 
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held with his former 
employer. Portal processed the transfer of Mr Cs DB scheme benefits to a personal pension 
with an income drawdown facility on an insistent client basis. Mr C says Portal should have 
clearly recommended that he didnt transfer instead of providing him with insistent client 
documentation. Mr C says hes suffered a loss as a result of Portals actions.
What happened
Mr C approached Portal in May 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs as he 
says he had turned 55 and understood that he may have some pension options available to 
him.
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. On 13 June 2016 Portal sent Mr C a letter saying that it recommended he didnt 
transfer his DB pension scheme benefits because the growth rate required to match his 
guaranteed benefits was too high at 5.7% and because hed be giving up a guaranteed 
pension of just under £2,800 a year from age 62. But Portal said it could still help Mr C if he 
wanted to go ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client 
form.
On 20 June 2016 Mr C returned the insistent client form. Where asked, Mr C indicated on 
the form that he acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required growth 
rate and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits.
On 24 June 2016 Portal sent Mr C a suitability report setting out its advice. The report 
outlined Mr Cs circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was employed, he 
was renting his home, he had around £1,000 in savings, he was paying a small amount each 
month towards a repayment plan and he had more than £500 a month disposable income. 
The report went on to set out the details of Mr Cs existing DB pension scheme, which 
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr C could expect from his scheme at 
age 62. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr Cs existing scheme benefits was 
19%.
The report said that Mr Cs objective was to access his tax-free cash entitlement to purchase 
a trike or motorbike. 
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr C other ways to generate the money required to 
meet his objective - but said that he didnt have sufficient assets to raise the cash required, 
or enough disposable income, and he didnt want to take on further lending.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended 
that Mr C shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would 
be giving up  but it said that Mr C had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be 
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr C transfer his pension to 
enable him to meet his objective and it set out which pension provider and product it 
recommended.
Mr C signed the relevant application forms in July 2016 and the transfer went ahead. Mr C 
received his tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in a range of funds, 
which Portal deemed matched Mr Cs attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mr C complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice he received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr C in October 2020. In 
summary it said that it had provided suitable advice and had acted in Mr Cs best interests. It 
said that it had recommended Mr C not to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme because 
of the guaranteed benefits it provided. It said Mr C was intent on proceeding with the transfer 
to access the tax-free cash so it treated him as an insistent client  the process for which it 
followed correctly. It said that it had provided Mr C with enough information for him to make 
an informed decision. Finally it said that because Mr C has now withdrawn all the funds from 
his pension shows that he was intent on releasing funds early regardless of its advice.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they
concluded that his complaint should be upheld. In summary they said that Portal hadnt 
acted fairly towards Mr C and they didnt think he was a true insistent client. They said Portal 
only provided Mr C with its suitability report and the reasons why he shouldnt transfer out of 
his DB pension scheme after hed been asked and given his decision to go against Portals 
advice. They said they didnt think this paid due regard to Mr Cs information needs. They 
noted that the reason Mr C gave for going against Portals advice was different to the 
objective noted on the advice paperwork. They went on to say that Portal didnt properly 
explore the alternatives available to Mr C to meet his objective and that overall they didnt 
think Mr C wouldve gone ahead and transferred had Mr C been properly advised and 
informed.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
it advised against the transfer, which was clear from its letter of 13 June 2016 in 
which it explained the benefits Mr C would be giving up.
Mr C clearly selected the option to go against Portals recommendation and did 
so in his own time without any pressure.
it disagreed with the investigator that the different reason Mr C gave for going 
against its advice in his insistent client paperwork versus the fact-find document 
was an example of not correctly following the insistent client process  it says it 
simply outlines that another objective couldve been recorded. It says this 
wouldve made no difference to its recommendation not to proceed.
it believes it followed the correct insistent client process and says that its postal 
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client 
transactions.
It believes Mr C was a genuine insistent client and that the evidence suggests he 
would have transferred his DB pension scheme benefits with or without Portals 
involvement because of his language throughout and his strong objective to 
release funds early.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr C as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But in February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what 
steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key 
steps, which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
he/she is acting against it advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected Portal to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
 
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Cs best interests. It says that it 
followed the correct insistent client process and that its postal correspondence process 
demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions. Mr C says that he believed his 
DB scheme pension wasnt making any money and didnt have much value to it. So when he 
was repeatedly told by Portal that he could access money from his pension, he says he 
expressed an interest in buying a new motorbike. He says that this was an optional purchase 
and it wasnt something he wouldve knowingly jeopardised his financial security in 
retirement for.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Cs best interests. And 
I think Mr C likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he should 
go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 13 June 2016 following the telephone discussion Portal had with Mr C 
about his pension options now that hed turned 55, it sent him what can only be described as 
a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to 
match Mr Cs guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme and because hed be giving up a 
guaranteed pension of around £2,000 a year from age 65, it recommended Mr C should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash lump sum. In this situation Id 
expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the transfer was not in Mr 
Cs best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the loss of guarantees and 
the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later sent a more detailed 
suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr C had little information to go off 
to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr C should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be 
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr C needed to complete 
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against 
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes 
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Cs 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it 
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr C could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to Mr C and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal 
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed 
on this, that Mr C could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was 
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr C had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr C was an 
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. Im mindful too that in carrying out the assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be balanced, it asked him a number of questions, the answers to which I think shouldve 
put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent 
client route. For example Mr C agreed that he would be described by others as a cautious 
person; he wasnt comfortable investing in the stockmarket; he didnt find investment matters 
easy to understand; and most importantly in my view, he indicated that it usually took him a 
long time to make up his mind about financial matters.
I can see that Mr Cs insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words 
why he wanted to access his pension fund early. And while this was something the FCA 
guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mr Cs response adequately 
demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation 
being made. I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and Mr 
C simply had to tick a box to say that he understood, but crucially as I indicated earlier on, 
he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and had time to digest it before deciding 
to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded Mr C was able to make an informed choice here. 
I also have concerns about the reasons Mr C gave for deciding to go against Portals advice, 
which doesnt reflect his objective in the advice paperwork. Ill discuss this later on.
It was only after receiving Mr Cs confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent Mr C its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation 
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation, 
advising Mr C to transfer his benefits to facilitate a flexible drawdown pension. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr C 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr C advice on the advice to transfer, 
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after 
securing Mr Cs confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr C transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively recommended 
that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring out of the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Cs best interests, it needed to ensure 
that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. It couldnt 
separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full suitability report Mr C 
likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was 
reasonable for him to do so.
Turning back to the different reasons Mr C gave for wanting to access his pension early - in 
his insistent client forms Mr C said that he wanted to be in control of his finances by 
accessing money when he needed to. He said that he wanted to access money for rent and 
bills if he had to  for example if he had an accident or was ill and his work benefits stopped. 
But on the advice paperwork Mr C said he wanted to buy a motorbike.
I can see Portal says this difference wasnt an example of it not correctly following the 
insistent client process. It says it simply shows that another objective couldve been recorded 
 albeit it says this wouldnt have made a difference to its recommendation not to proceed.
But I think this highlights serious failings on Portals part. Firstly I think in acting in Mr Cs 
best interests this apparent difference in objective and reason for wanting to go against its 
advice ought to have prompted it to have queried things with Mr C and to have asked him 
questions to better understand things before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer his pension. It strikes me that from what Mr C describes in his 
insistent client form, his objective could be met by building up his emergency fund  
something his recorded disposable income would have allowed  and by addressing Mr Cs 
protection needs through an insurance policy such as income protection. I dont think it was 
necessary for Mr C to gain access to his pension monies early to achieve this. 
But Portal didnt consider these alternatives to address his needs - instead it appears to 
have ignored or overlooked what Mr C said and proceeded to send him its full 
recommendation based on his original objective. If Portal understood Mr Cs objective had 
changed or he had an additional objective, then this shouldve been documented in the 
advice paperwork, so that when it delivered its recommendation to Mr C it was clear that 
Portal didnt think it was suitable advice to transfer from his DB scheme to a personal 
arrangement for this purpose. 
Secondly I think this issue brings into doubt that Mr Cs insistence to access his pension to 
buy a motorbike was set in stone or a firm objective as Portal appears to believe. If it was, 
then I wouldve expected Mr C to have said so in his insistent client form. But he made no 
mention of it here. I think this supports what Mr C says that it was an optional purchase and 
that the idea only likely came about after he was told he could get access to his pension 
monies early.
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the 
rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due 
care and skill and in Mr Cs best interests. And by not seeking to properly understand Mr Cs 
objectives and what he was really trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not 
persuaded this was acting in Mr Cs best interest. 
Ultimately I dont think Mr C was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and 
this was the only way to meet his objective(s). No assessment of his income needs into 
retirement and how his DB scheme income fitted into this was carried out. And no 
alternatives were discussed for his objective of wanting to access money to help pay his rent 
and bills if he was off work sick as I said above. I also think Portal paid little attention to and 
easily disregarded the reasonable and apparently affordable alternative of Mr C borrowing 
money to buy a motorbike. Furthermore I think Portal gave Mr C a positive recommendation 
to transfer out of the scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve given him the 
impression that Portal agreed with his approach. 
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr C can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client. 
Portals overall communication with Mr C wasnt clear or fair and it didnt allow him time to 
think carefully about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer. It didnt act in Mr Cs best 
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill. 
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr C wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says that because Mr C has subsequently withdrawn 
all of the money from his pension, this shows that he wanted access to his pension early and 
he would have done this regardless of Portals involvement. 
But if Portal had acted in Mr Cs best interests, providing a recommendation on the suitability 
of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mr Cs true 
objectives at the time, I dont think Mr C wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. 
As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr C was an experienced investor such that he possessed the requisite knowledge or had the confidence to go against the advice he was 
given. I think he relied solely on the advice and process Portal employed. 
I can see that Mr C went on to make further withdrawals from his pension in addition to the 
initial tax-free cash he took at the time. Mr C has told us the monies were used to help his 
daughters  to pay for an operation and to help out with a property. But Im not persuaded 
this demonstrates, as Portal argues, that this means Mr C always intended to access his 
pension early and would have done so regardless. 
As I said above, I think it was Portal that planted the seed in Mr Cs head that he could 
access his pension benefits early  Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C set out with the 
intention of doing so. I also dont think the subsequent withdrawals Mr C made were planned 
at the time of the advice. It seems to me that Mr C withdrew further funds because he could, 
by virtue of Portal having made the funds available to him through the transfer. I think the 
further withdrawals flow directly from Portals failure to act in Mr Cs best interests by not 
providing with him with suitable advice and failing to communicate with him in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way as I have set out above. Had Portal emphasised the importance of 
these funds to Mr Cs retirement, I think its unlikely he wouldve insisted on accessing them. 
Putting things right  
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals failings. I consider Mr C would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct process 
followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr C couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at 
age 62. So, I think compensation should be based on Mr C accessing his benefits at age 62.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision.
 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman