DRN-2248840
The complaint
Mr B complains Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) refused to refund the premium for his 
travel policy, after advising he could request this as part of a cancellation claim. 
Mr Bs complaint is brought on his behalf by a representative. But for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B contacted URV about cancellation of his holiday due to his ill health. URV told Mr B he 
could make a cancellation claim, and that he could also claim for the cost of his policy 
premium. 
When the claim was settled, Mr B told URV he was expecting a refund of his insurance 
premium, and thought he should have received more in settlement of his claim. URV said it 
calculated the settlement amount based on the cost of Mr Bs holiday, less his policy excess 
of £150. 
Mr B complained to URV. URV said itd listened to the call Mr B had made, and it had 
incorrectly advised he could claim for his policy premium. It said this was a mistake and 
apologised. And it confirmed Mr B was unable to claim back the cost of his policy.
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened, and said although URV had made a mistake, she 
thought it had done enough to put things right by apologising to Mr B. 
URV didnt make any further comments on the investigators view. And Mr B disagreed with 
it. He said a claim hadnt been made and the policy hadnt been used, as the trip was 
cancelled before it took place. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. And Ill explain why. 
Although Mr B didnt go on his planned holiday, this doesnt mean his policy went unused. 
Mr B took his policy out in September for a trip in December the same year. So from the 
point the policy started, URV was on risk in relation to any cancellation claim Mr B might 
make, as well as for his intended travel dates. And in this case, as Mr B needed to cancel his 
holiday before it started due to his health, he used the cancellation cover under his policy to 
recoup the costs of the cancelled trip. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy provide no right to cancel a policy and receive a 
refund if a claim has been made  this is common across the industry. And even if URV 
were to refund Mr Bs premium, it would also be entitled to cancel the policy from the start 
date, as if it never existed. If it did this, there would be no cover in place, and Mr B wouldnt 
be entitled to make any claims under the policy. 
In this case, Im satisfied Mr B has already benefitted from a cancellation claim. So I think its 
fair to say the policy he purchased has been utilised and it performed as expected. And 
because of this, I see no valid reason for URV to refund the policy premium in these 
circumstances. 
URV accepted it incorrectly advised Mr B he could claim for a refund of his policy premium, 
and it apologised for this. I appreciate URVs mistake led Mr B to believe hed receive a 
higher settlement amount for his claim. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct URV to 
make a payment to Mr B purely because it made a mistake; my role here is not to punish a 
business. Instead, Ive considered the impact URVs error had on Mr B. 
Mr B was told he could claim back his premium when he called URV in early December. 
URV settled his claim on 16 December. And after Mr B asked why hed not received a refund 
of his premium, URV responded on 23 December explaining how the settlement had been 
calculated. Considering the value of the premium and the time period over which Mr B was 
of the expectation he would receive this money, I think URVs mistake likely caused some 
minor inconvenience. And in these circumstances, I think the apology URV gave Mr B in its 
response to his complaint is sufficient. So I wont be asking URV to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Union Reiseversicherung AG.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman