DRN-4439958
The complaint
Mr K complains esure Insurance Limited (Esure) handled his motor insurance claim unfairly. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr K was involved in a collision with another car whilst driving. He claimed 
against his Esure motor insurance policy. He was unhappy with its decision to consider his 
car to be a total loss, the market valued it based its settlement on, the deduction charged for 
him retaining its salvage and the claim being settled with the third-party on split liability basis. 
Esure issued a complaint response. It didnt accept it had done anything wrong or unfair by 
deeming his car a total loss  or in how it had reached that decision. Neither did it accept the 
50/50 split liability outcome was unreasonable or incorrect. It apologised for providing some 
poor communication during the claim  offering £150 compensation. 
In a different complaint response Esure said its valuation of Mr Ks car was fair  based on 
the average of four trade guides. It explained the £395 it deducted for him retaining its 
salvage reflected what it would have received from its agents. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied so came to this service. Our Investigator felt Esure had arrived at fair 
market value for Mr Ks vehicle. But he didnt think it had provided enough evidence to show 
it was fair to apply a Category N total loss marker. So he recommended it be removed. 
The Investigator said Esure hadnt provided a reasonable explanation for a salvage 
deduction of £395. He recommended it instead deduct what it would, under its commercial 
arrangements, receive from a salvage agent. The Investigator felt Esure had come to a 
reasonable decision on liability. Finally he felt the poor service Mr K had experienced 
justified an additional £150 compensation. 
Esure accepted the findings.  Mr K didnt accept the Investigators position on his valuation 
and liability complaint points. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr K and Esure have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central. But I would like to assure them I have considered everything provided.  
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision. Mr Ks policy terms allow Esure to defend or settle any claim on his 
behalf. That means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do 
so. I can consider if its decision to do so was reasonable.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Esure acted in line with the policy terms. And 
I cant say its decision to settle on a split liability basis was unfair or unreasonable.
Esures based its split liability decision on dashcam footage of the collision. It said the 
third-party was obliged to give way to Mr K at the point where two lanes narrowed to one  a 
chicane. But it felt it was clear from the footage that before Mr K reached it the third-party 
had already started to move through it. So it felt Mr K was obliged to stop and give way  but 
didnt. So it was of the opinion a 50/50 split liability, with the third-party, was the best 
outcome that could be achieved. 
Ive considered all of Mr Ks detailed points and descriptions  including his thoughts about 
the road surface condition and him having priority of way. As Ive said this is an informal 
service, so Im not to respond to each view here. But having viewed the footage, and 
considered Esures explanation, I cant say its made an unreasonable decision or achieved 
an unfair outcome for Mr K. So Im not going to require it to do anything differently in regard 
to liability. 
Ive next considered the settlement offered by Esure. Mr Ks policy allows Esure to pay to 
repair damage to his car or pay to settle his claim. It allows Esure to choose which method. 
In addition it says the most it will pay is the market value of the car at the time of loss. 
Market value is defined by the policy as the amount you could reasonably have expected to 
sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition,. And mileage at the time of the accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides.
Esure considered Mr Ks car to be uneconomical to repair. It estimated repair costs, from the 
incident, of £2,500 against a market value of £1,500. So it chose to settle the claim based on 
a market value of £1,500. 
Ive first considered Esures market value. Its not the role of our service to put an exact 
value on a vehicle. When looking into these types of complaints we usually check the 
relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line 
with them. We do also consider information other than trade guides, including adverts.
Esure used four trade guides to reach its market value of £1,500. These provided a range 
from £1,188 to £1,835. Our Investigator found three valuations - £1,318, £1,420, £1,530 and 
£1,750. The £1,500 is within the range of these. 
But Ive also considered Mr Ks points about the work he did to the vehicle to keep it running 
long term. Hes also referred to adverts supporting his claim for a higher market value. 
Having thought about these Im not persuaded theres enough to say it would have a higher 
marker value than that provided by the guides. I accept Mr K wished to keep the vehicle on 
the road in the medium term at least. But much of the work he has undertaken is necessary 
periodic maintenance or work that doesnt seem likely to have a significant impact on the 
cars value.
So overall Im satisfied Esures market value of £1,500 is fair and reasonable.      
Ive also considered Esures decision to treat the car as a total loss  and so provide a cash 
settlement rather than undertake repairs. It hasnt provided any evidence of how it reached 
an estimate of £2,500 for repairs. However, insurers often consider a car uneconomical to repair, or a total loss, when costs 
reach around 60-70% of its pre-loss market value. On a £1,500 market value thats around 
£900-£1,050. Ive considered the information Mr Ks sent in about various parts hes 
purchased. But having seen photos of the damage (including to the front wing, bumper and 
headlight) Im satisfied the repair costs, using one of Esures approved repairers, would 
probably exceed the 60-70% point. So I cant say its decision was unfair or unreasonable.     
Esure accepted our Investigators recommendation that the Category N marker be removed 
from Mr Ks vehicles records. He didnt dispute that recommendation. So, as that seems to 
be a settled issue, Im not going to consider it here or interfere with that outcome  other 
than to require Esure to do what its already agreed to. 
Our Investigator said Esure hadnt provided a reasonable explanation for how it had 
calculated the £395 salvage retention deduction. So he recommended it charge Mr K a 
correct amount based on evidence. Its now provided evidence that it would have received 
£395 from its salvage agent. So its fair for it to deduct that amount from Mr Ks settlement if 
he has retained the salvage. That means Im not going to require it to do anything differently. 
Finally Esure also agreed to the Investigators recommendation that it pay an additional £150 
compensation. He felt that was justified by poor customer service. This included it providing 
misleading information about courtesy car provision and failing to respond to his enquiries at 
times. Having considered everything a total of £300, so an additional £150, compensation 
does seem fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr K £300 compensation in total (including any paid already) and
remove the Category N marker from records of Mr Ks vehicle. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman