DRN-1111521
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with what Bastion Insurance Company Limited did after he made a claim on 
his mobile phone insurance policy. 
All references to Bastion include its claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr T has insurance for his mobile phone which is underwritten by Bastion. In April last year 
he made a claim for damage to the rear of the phone. Bastion reviewed the photos he'd sent 
and said this was cosmetic damage which wasn't covered by his policy. Mr T said the 
damage to the glass meant the phone was unsafe to use and provided a report from an 
approved repairer which said the phone couldn't be repaired. 
Bastion reviewed this information and in June it offered to pay Mr T around £230 (less the 
policy excess) which it said was the market value of the phone. Mr T said that was based on 
the wrong specification and thought he should be refunded the £20 cost of the report he'd 
provided. 
In response Bastion reviewed its position again and said it believed the damage to the 
phone was a broken or cracked screen and there was no evidence of anything more than 
glass damage. It believed this could be repaired. So it withdrew its earlier offer and said it 
would pay the standard amount for a front screen replacement of around £166 (less the 
policy excess). 
Our investigator thought Bastion had acted fairly when it initially concluded the damage to 
the phone was cosmetic. So under the terms of the policy it didn't need to take any action 
here. It was unclear why it had offered an amount to cover the front screen when it was the 
back of the phone that was damaged. But as rear glass replacement was likely to cost less 
than changing the front screen he didn't think there was anything more Bastion needed to 
do. 
Mr T didn't agree. He said the damage to the glass was a health and safety issue and didn't 
accept this was cosmetic. And he was unhappy Bastion had initially offered a replacement 
amount for the phone (based itself on incorrect information) only to then withdraw this offer. 
He remained unhappy that it hadn't refunded the cost of the report he'd obtained. He also 
said repairs to the phone could affect its water resistance which was why it needed 
replacing. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr T's policy. The policy covers him for 
accidental damage and describes this as "the costs of repairing your Gadget for Accidental 
Damage. If your Gadget cannot be repaired a replacement item will be provided". And I understand the level of cover he selected included within that "screen / glass damage to 
your Gadget". But the policy doesn't cover "cosmetic damage of any kind including 
scratches, chips or dents". 
Bastion concluded from the photos Mr T supplied that the damage was cosmetic. I've 
reviewed those photographs and I don't think that was unreasonable. While there is clearly 
cracking to the rear of the phone (and in particular the top right corner) the photos don't 
show the damage to be more than cosmetic or that the phone was unsafe to use. It appears 
to be agreed it still worked. 
However, in response Mr T drew attention to the safety issues caused by the broken glass 
and provided a report from an approved repairer which said the phone needed replacing. So 
I think Bastion was right to review its position in the light of that information.
Bastion then said it would offer Mr T the market value of a replacement phone. However, 
that does appear to have been based on an incorrect specification of Mr T's existing phone. I 
appreciate that will have been frustrating for Mr T and I recognise that Bastion's subsequent 
withdrawal of that offer because it concluded the phone could be repaired will also have 
been disappointing for him.
However, I don't think that decision was unfair in itself. I appreciate Mr T had provided a 
report saying the phone couldn't be repaired. But it does appear that repairs to the back 
screen of a phone like Mr T's are possible for significantly less than the replacement cost. 
And the report he's provided refers to Mr T as being "eligible" for a whole unit replacement. 
It doesn't provide any detailed explanation as to why repairs couldn't have been carried out 
in this case. 
If the damage prevented the phone being used safely as Mr T has argued I agree this would 
represent more than cosmetic damage. But under the terms of the policy Bastion would then 
need to pay the cost of repairs to the phone. And it's done that by agreeing to pay for the 
replacement glass.  Mr T has raised the issue of water resistance. I've not seen evidence to 
show that this repair would definitely affect the phone's water resistance. But even if it did I 
don't think that's a significant enough part of its functionality (or something that was 
important enough to Mr T) to mean it would be fair to ask Bastion to replace rather than 
repair the phone in this case.
I accept its earlier decision to offer the cost of a replacement phone will have given Mr T a 
raised expectation he would be receiving a higher amount (and I appreciate that amount was 
in itself based on inaccurate information). However, it only took a few days for this to be 
resolved. It also appears the offer Bastion has made is for a front touch screen replacement 
when it's the rear glass on Mr T's phone that needs replacing. The amount it's offered is 
more than the quoted cost I've found for this work so it seems likely Mr T is likely to benefit 
from the offer Bastion has made. So I don't think it needs to do anything more here. 
I know Mr T is also unhappy Bastion hasn't refunded the cost of the report he obtained. 
However, under the terms of his policy there's no obligation for it to do so. And given what 
I've already said about the difference in price between the offer Bastion has made and the 
actual cost of the work I don't think in any case there's more  Bastion needs to do here.  
 
Mr T has also queried whether any work to his phone carried out by a non approved repairer 
would be guaranteed to work. If he has any issues with the quality of the work carried out by 
a company that he engages to carry out the repairs I think that's something he'd need to 
raise with that company direct. In summary, I agree Bastion got some things wrong when dealing with Mr T's claim. But 
given the offer it's now made is for a higher amount than the repairs to his phone are likely to 
cost I don't think there's anything more it needs to do to put things right here.
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman