DRN-3696680
The complaint
Mr O complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
It seems Mr Os dealings with Portal extended over quite a few months. Mr O approached 
Portal to discuss his pension and retirement needs in late 2015. Portal completed a fact-find 
on 11 April 2016 to gather information about Mr Os circumstances and objectives. A 
suitability report was produced on 18 July 2016 and the transfer out of his OPS eventually 
took place in 2017. 
The information Portal gathered about Mr O in 2016 was broadly as follows:
Mr O was 52 years old and living in a rented house. He was married and had one 
dependent child. 
Mr O had worked in the transport sector for 15 years and was earning approximately 
£28,000 (gross) per year. He had acquired debts of around £26,000 which were in an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). He was paying £130 per month towards this.
Mr O was an active member of his OPS. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of this scheme was around £51,000 at that time, with a normal retirement age of 60.
Mr O had no further assets or liabilities Im aware of, although he did have a very 
small amount in an existing SIPP which does not form part of this complaint.
Mr O told Portal he had an aspiration to retire or semi-retire at 55 years old. 
Portal advised Mr O in the suitability report to transfer his OPS to a SIPP, which it 
recommended. The transfer-out eventually took place in July 2017.
Mr O says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal. The complaint has been referred to our 
Service. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in July 2022 saying I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. However, I gave both parties a month to reply with any further 
information or evidence they wanted me to consider. This final decision should be read in 
conjunction with the PD. 
I have received no reply from Portal. Mr Os representatives say they agreed with my PD 
findings, so Im now ready to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portals actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.16 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Os best interests. 
Having considered these things, I am upholding the complaint. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The suitability report of 18 July 2016 said the critical yield required to match Mr Os benefits 
at age 60 was 14.3%. The report said this figure was based on a full pension being paid by 
Mr Os DB scheme. The report also said the critical yield would be 12.5% if he took a tax-
free cash element and a reduced pension. Of course, we know Mr Os aspiration at the time 
was to try to retire or semi-retire at 55 if possible, rather than 60 as quoted in Portals 
suitability report. Ive therefore kept this in mind and Ive also noted the critical yield figures 
for retiring at the age of 55 were much higher in certain circumstances - as shown in the 
transfer value analysis Portal commissioned. So, these critical yield figures, in my view, 
indicate it was highly unlikely that a transfer out could match the benefits Mr O already had 
within his current DB scheme.
Portal also quoted a growth rate of 4.8% which it said was a more appropriate figure to use 
in Mr Os situation. In my view, this was a poor comparison to use and poorly explained. In 
my experience this would have been comparing a pension with inferior benefits and 
guarantees to Mr Os DB scheme and I dont think he would have understood what this 
growth rate actually meant - I think the explanation of it in the suitability report was poor.
I have also noted that the relevant discount rate was 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've therefore taken all this information into account, along with the composition of assets in 
the discount rate, Mr Os balanced attitude to risk (as assessed by Portal) and also the term 
to retirement. There would be little point in Mr O giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the critical yield rates Ive set out above, I think Mr O was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Ive also considered some cash flow models which Portal showed in a transfer analysis 
document. Its not entirely clear if Mr O saw these but Ive considered them nonetheless. 
Portal implied these help to show Mr O could have met his retirement needs by transferring 
out of his DB scheme to a SIPP. However, I disagree. These were not like-for-like 
comparisons with the scheme Mr O was in and Ive noted certain assumptions were made, 
including the returns of the recommended investment portfolios being based on historic 
returns. In any event these models show the funds completely depleted in Mr Os 70s. 
Portals case for transferring out used high historic return rates. But past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be much more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than 
projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme certainly wasnt in Mr Os best interests. 
By transferring out, Mr O was giving up a guaranteed index-linked income with a number of 
useful and long-term benefits. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
In the suitability report of 18 July 2016, Portal said Mr O had a number of objectives which I 
have summarised as follows:
Greater pension flexibility, ownership of his pension, control of death benefitsMaximising more tax-free cash than in his current scheme
Willing to take more investment risks / achieve higher performance
A cheaper scheme
I have thought about these and carefully considered the likelihood of them coming from the 
Portal adviser, rather than Mr O himself. The evidence tends to suggest Mr O had limited 
investment experience and I consider the objectives listed above as somewhat generic and 
certainly not specific to Mr Os circumstances. I therefore think Portals advisor is much more 
likely to have been the source of these objectives, and not Mr O. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Mr O had a genuine need for flexibility in 
retirement. My stance on this differs to that of our investigator; they still found Portals advice 
to transfer out early to be unsuitable but said that Mr O may have eventually accessed his 
pension after hed reached 55, to pay down debt. However, I dont think he had a genuine 
need to access tax-free (or taxed) cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age. I do 
note that Mr O had some debts, but these were not discussed in the suitability report as a 
specific objective. They were also already in a structured repayment plan and Ive seen no 
evidence they werent being addressed. So, I consider it unlikely that Mr O would have 
wanted to use his retirement funds to pay these debts if he had been suitably advised. I think 
hed have realised using his pension like this wasnt a good idea.
Nor do I think Mr O genuinely wanted to exercise personal control of his pension. Mr O was 
already in a pension scheme managed on his behalf and his membership required very little, 
if any, effort from him. So, I dont think theres anything in this case showing that Mr O had 
either the capacity or desire to manage his pension; I think this was just an outcome or 
consequence of Portals recommendation to transfer him out to a different scheme.
Mr O was also only aged 52 years old at the time of the advice, and although he may well 
have wanted to either retire or semi-retire at 55, I dont think he yet had concrete retirement 
plans at that point, or indeed the financial resources to support retirement. I think this was 
only an aspiration at that point. At the point of the advice Mr O had 3 more years before he 
could access his pension if he transferred out, so I think in his circumstances it was too soon 
to make any kind of decision about coming out of the DB scheme. Indeed, given his 
somewhat vulnerable financial situation, there may also have been an opportunity for Portal 
to explain to Mr O that there simply was no suitable course of action at that time which would 
fulfil his early retirement aspirations with the resources he currently had. And if this was the 
case, this should have been pointed out clearly by the adviser.
However, a particular additional factor in this case is that aged 52 Mr O was still an active 
member of the OPS and so transferring out could also lose him valuable employer 
contributions which would have helped his modest pension continue to grow. In my view, this 
was a benefit Mr O could ill afford to give up easily. Portal substantially underplayed the 
significance of this and even suggested he leave the scheme and then investigate re-joining 
at some point. I dont think this was good advice and my understanding is that re-joining the 
scheme was at best, uncertain. The adviser ought to have clarified these issues.
Overall, I therefore dont think this was a suitable recommendation for Mr O to give up the 
scheme benefits and employer contributions at that point when he didnt know what his 
needs in retirement could be. 
Ive considered whether there were other reasons Mr O needed to transfer out of his OPS. 
This could have included seeking immediate access to cash when he reached the age of 55. Ive noted Mr O told us, for example, that Mrs Os immigration status was an issue at around 
the time and she had no income. Clearly, these issues would have caused further 
uncertainty for Mr O and I acknowledge that his finances would have been tight. 
However, as Ive explained above, there is no evidence his debts werent being addressed. 
Nevertheless, I do accept the prospect of extra cash earlier than his normal retirement age 
might have seemed a tempting prospect in Mr Os position, and this may have played a 
factor in him transferring out. But even if this were the case, Portal should have explained 
however, that accessing more tax-free cash early also came with consequences for his 
longer-term retirement needs.
So, all these issues needed to be considered against Mr Os long-term retirement security as 
this was his only meaningful retirement income until he reached state pension age, if 
applicable. If Mr O later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so 
closer to retirement and when his plans were much clearer. In short, Ive seen nothing that 
would have made transferring out of his DB scheme so urgent at the time as to make 
Portals recommendation to transfer out suitable.
With all this in mind, I think the advice should have been for Mr O to continue to contribute to 
and use the pension in the way it was originally designed. In reality, this pension was not 
large and was by far his main retirement provision. According to information from his OPS 
issued in March 2016 his pension was projected to pay an income of £3,455 per year from 
the age of 60, together with a lump sum of £8,578. This income could be increased to 
£4,170 per year if no lump sum was taken or reduced to £2,681 per year if the maximum 
lump sum of £17,874 was chosen. In my view, these options were much more suited to 
Mr Os circumstances and they demonstrate just how challenging Mr Os retirement 
aspirations might be, even at 60. 
Death benefits
Portal implied the death benefits were better for him under the SIPP it was recommending to 
Mr O. However, I disagree. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was possibly an attractive feature to Mr O. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits were important to Mr O, and he might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was 
to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent he 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr O 
was married with a child and so the spouses pension, in particular, provided by the DB 
scheme would have been useful if Mr O predeceased his wife. This pension had very good 
death benefits  it had a five times lump-sum payment of the annual salary upon death whilst 
still a member of the scheme, and it had an on-going 50% spouses pension for life. I dont 
think Portal made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr O. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. Portal should not have encouraged Mr O to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
In any event whether the death benefits were improved following a transfer depended on 
how much remained in the pension funds at the point of Mr Os passing. Given average life expectancy, and the size of the funds, it was always likely that the funds would be entirely 
depleted prior to Mr Os death, providing no death benefits at all. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr O. 
Suitability of investments 
Portal recommended that Mr O invest his funds in a SIPP. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr O, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he 
should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. We now know Mr O withdrew 
all the funds in subsequent years.
Summary
In my decision I have explained why it wasnt in Mr Os best interests to transfer out of his 
OPS. I dont doubt that the issues raised by Portal, such as greater flexibility, control and 
higher tax-free cash on offer through a personal pension could have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr O at the time. I also considered his aspiration to retire earlier than his 
schemes normal retirement age. However, Portals job here wasnt just to transact what Mr 
O might have thought he wanted; the advisers role was to really understand what Mr O 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests. Portal failed in this duty.
The advice given to Mr O was not suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income and transferring out of a scheme he was an active member of. There may 
also have been an option within his current scheme to retire early. But by transferring out of 
his OPS, Mr O was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits overall. 
I then explained that Mr O had some debts and no doubt some ongoing financial challenges. 
However, these were not listed as his objectives in transferring out of his DB scheme, and as 
Ive explained, they did not justify him being advised to give up the guarantees and benefits 
associated with his DB scheme at that time. I also explained why there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer out. 
Finally, I explained about the potential for more flexible death benefits. Like the other 
objectives listed in the suitability report, my view is that these were generic benefits most 
likely to have been put forward by Portal, rather than Mr O. And in any event, these things 
meant very little in Mr Os circumstances.
Accordingly, Portal should have advised Mr O to remain in his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr O for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr O, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr O whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. So I am satisfied 
that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will 
provide fair redress for Mr O.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr O has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Os acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Os 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Os SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Os pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr O as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr O within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr O.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr O any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr O any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr O the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr O.
If Mr O accepts the final decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr O can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman