DRN-2343101
The complaint
 Mrs B has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline her claim.
 
What happened
Mrs B is a member of her employers group income protection insurance scheme which pays 
a benefit if Mrs B is unable to perform her own occupation as a result of injury or illness. The 
policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks. Mrs B held a senior position at a large bank.
In 2018, Mrs Bs daughter was involved in an accident which sadly resulted in her death. Mrs 
B was signed off by her GP due to bereavement and she made a claim in March 2019. The 
commencement date was June 2019. But Unum declined the claim on the basis that 
bereavement wasnt an illness and so Mrs B didnt meet the definition of incapacity.
Unhappy with Unums response, Mrs B referred her complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator found Unum had unfairly declined the claim and said the evidence did show that 
Mrs B met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. 
Unum disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The medical evidence shows Mrs Bs absence had been caused by bereavement
There are no details of any restrictions or limitations
Mrs B has been able to travel overseas on more than one occasion which shows that 
her symptoms do not restrict her from all aspects of life which would be expected if 
she had an all-encompassing mental health condition
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
First of all, Im very sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Bs loss. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy definition of illness is:
ill-health or disease as evidenced by a significant or objectively determined 
deterioration in physical or mental health.
The policy terms define incapacity as:
The member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by 
reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the 
insured occupation
The medical evidence
The investigators opinion sets out the relevant medical evidence in detail and so I wont 
repeat everything here. Ill summarise the key evidence instead. Ive seen that Mrs Bs GP 
has certified Mrs B as unfit to work throughout the deferred period and beyond due to her 
bereavement. 
Mrs B was prescribed sleeping tablets and anti-depressants throughout the deferred period. 
Her dosage of anti-depressants (Sertraline) was increased from 50mg to 100mg. In addition, 
she started one to one sessions with a clinical psychologist in January 2019. The 
psychologist found Mrs Bs function had been disrupted and her routine was limited to 
remaining at home and going out for long walks with her husband.
Unum reviewed the above evidence and concluded Mrs B had difficulties of coming to terms 
with her bereavement and the evidence didnt suggest Mrs B had developed a mental 
illness. She was also travelling and engaging with activities throughout the deferred period. 
So I need to consider whether Mrs Bs symptoms amounted to an illness under the terms of 
the policy and if so, whether that illness was severe enough to prevent her from carrying out 
her insured occupation. 
Unum said Mrs B was suffering from a reaction to the bereavement and there was no 
evidence of a pervasive mental health condition. But I dont think its reasonable to reach this 
conclusion just because Mrs B hadnt been formally diagnosed with a mental health 
condition at the time. 
In March 2019, her psychologist said her entire functioning had been disrupted. There wasnt 
a formal diagnosis as she was suffering bereavement and ongoing therapy was 
recommended. She described her grief as all-consuming and she wasnt motivated to 
proceed with life. 
In March 2020, Mrs B spoke to an occupational health specialist who said Mrs B was 
suffering from prolonged bereavement and a depressive illness. It said Mrs B wasnt fit for 
work and there werent any recommended adjustments. But she should stay off work until 
June 2020 after which a further assessment should be carried out. 
Unum has said it doesnt think much weight should be given to this evidence as it happened 
after the deferred period. But Mrs Bs circumstances and the root cause of her depressive 
illness started with her bereavement. So I think its fair and reasonable to give weight to this 
evidence which followed on from the initial reaction to the bereavement. 
Unum has also said that as Mrs B was travelling, this shows her symptoms dont restrict her 
from all aspects of life. I dont think its fair for Unum to assess Mrs B against the criteria of 
being restricted from all aspects of life. Mrs B has to demonstrate that she is unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her role. She doesnt need to demonstrate that 
she is restricted from all aspects of life. 
Ive asked Mrs B whether she has received any ongoing treatment and she has confirmed 
she is awaiting further therapy and has also provided notes from her doctor which confirm a 
diagnosis of depression. Considering all of the above, I am persuaded that the evidence supports that Mrs B was 
suffering from an illness for which she was taking anti-depressant medication, which was 
increased and had also sought help from a psychologist. And as a result, she was unable to 
carry out the material and substantial duties of her role as a senior manager in a bank. So 
Im persuaded that Mrs B was incapacitated throughout the deferred period and beyond. 
Our investigator had said that Unum should pay the claim from the commencement date to 
June 2020. But once a claim is in payment, its for Unum to prove that Mrs B no longer 
meets the definition of incapacity. In this case, I think Unum should review the medical 
evidence after the deferred period to date, before deciding whether to terminate the claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Unum Ltd to pay Mrs Bs 
claim from the end of the deferred period, in line with the remaining policy terms. I also 
require Unum to pay interest on the backdated benefit at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date on which each payment would have been made until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman