DRN-3085235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim. My references to URV include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had an annual travel insurance policy for 29 July 2019 to 28 July 2020, insured 
by URV. They had a holiday booked at a ski resort in Europe due to begin 22 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 14 and 15 March 2020 the government of the country that Mr and Mrs T were 
due to visit closed all non-essential public spaces, including ski resorts. On 17 March 2020 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
That advice remained in place until the date of Mr and Mrs Ts planned departure so they 
cancelled their trip. They received a full refund from the airline for their cancelled flight. The 
accommodation provider said under its policy terms and conditions the accommodation 
costs werent refundable.
Mr and Mrs T claimed on their travel insurance policy for the costs they were unable to 
recover from the accommodation provider, about £1,000.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cancellation cover under the policy 
for a change in FCO advice.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us. They said:
it was unfair for URV not to cover the exceptional circumstances
they had paid for additional winter sports cover which covered them for piste closure 
up to £500. URV had told Mr and Mrs T that piste closure was only covered if it was 
due to lack of snow but they dont agree
their travelling companions had their claim paid by another insurer.
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She explained that under the policy there 
was no cover if Mr and Mrs T travelled, but also no cover if they cancelled. So she didnt 
think it was fair for URV to decline the claim.
URV disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it said the policy 
wasnt priced to cover the risk of a change in FCO advice and that other policies offered that 
level of cover. It didnt think the policy exclusion meant the claim should be covered.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had regard 
to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page 
one, says:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation.
And, also on page 1, under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover? it says:
unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 7 of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the policy. It 
excludes:
You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
On page 8, under the section entitled Cancellation, URV sets out the circumstances under 
which URV will pay for pre-paid costs which cannot be recovered from any other source. 
These are if the policyholder is unable to travel because:
you or a travelling companion is ill, quarantined, injured, or dies before the trip starts
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law
your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or your 
presence being required following a burglary occurring at , any time after we have 
accepted this insurance
you or a travel companion being made redundant
you or a travelling companion being unable to travel due to the requirements of HM 
forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section for; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable 
at the time of your departure.
Mr and Mrs T bought the optional winter sports cover and the piste closure section of the policy says URV will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover for:
each full 24 hours you are unable to ski due to the lack of snow which results in the 
total closure of skiing facilities in the resort 
towards the costs you have to pay to travel to another resort 
if you are unable to ski due to your resort being closed and there is no other resort 
available for as long as these conditions exist at the sort in which you are staying.
Provisions for cover include skiing between specified dates and over a specified altitude.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Im not upholding this complaint because:
The trip was cancelled due to circumstances entirely outside of Mr and Mrs Ts 
control. But the trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons specified in the 
cancellation section on page 8 of the policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCO 
advice isnt a valid reason for a cancellation claim to be paid under the policy. It isnt 
a listed insured event for which cover is provided under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs T to be left in a position where they had no cover for 
cancelling the trip due to a change in FCO advice but to also have no cover if theyd 
gone ahead and travelled in the event that it was possible for them to do so. There 
are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt 
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain.
I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of 
cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCO advice to be prominent in 
the IPID. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions which form 
the contract of insurance between Mr and Mrs T and URV. As Ive outlined above the 
exclusion in relation to the lack of cover for the advice or recommendation of the 
FCO was referred to in the general summary of conditions and exclusions. It was 
also specifically highlighted in the cancellation section of the policy.
Although Mr and Mrs T may have been in the position of having no cover under this 
policy if they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think these 
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of his 
policy. It was up to Mr and Mrs T to ensure they had the level of cover they required 
to meet their needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCO 
advice its likely they could have found another policy on the market which would 
have covered the situation they found themselves in.
Mr and Mrs T have read the piste closure section to provide cover if their ski resort is 
closed and there is no other resort available, which was the situation. But I think the 
wording of the section, with its provisions, is clear enough that the cover is if Mr and 
Mrs T were unable to ski due to the lack of snow. The closure of the resort wasnt 
due to lack of snow, it was due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. And the reason 
Mr and Mrs T gave on the claim form for cancellation was the FCO advice not to travel abroad, which isnt covered by the policy.
I note Mr and Mrs Ts travelling companions had their claim paid by a different 
insurer. But that doesnt affect my decision as I have to decide whether URV fairly 
declined the claim on the policy terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy.
Overall I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I can fairly ask URV to  
accept this claim.
Responses to my provisional findings
URV didnt respond. Mr and Mrs T said they didnt agree with my provisional findings but 
accepted them. They added that the policy information URV initially sent them about the 
piste closure due to lack of snow was less than it sent once they made the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs T accepted my provisional findings and URV didnt respond Ive no reason to  
change my mind. I had noted Mr and Mrs Ts comments about the policy information, but 
even if I agreed they didnt initially have all the policy information about the piste closure due 
to lack of snow that wouldnt change my decision that URV fairly declined the claim for the 
reasons Ive given above. 
For the above reasons I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I can fairly 
ask URV to accept this claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman