DRN-4018391
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Revolut Ltd hasnt refunded her after she was the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Miss R was called by scammers pretending to be from her bank. They said her account was 
compromised  she said she checked her account but couldnt see any issue. The caller had 
her details, name and previous address. And she received a spoofed text which appeared in 
a chain of genuine texts she had received from her bank. She was asked if she had another 
bank account that she could transfer the money to. And she moved her funds from that bank 
account to her Revolut account. 
Shortly after that call ended, she received a call from someone pretending to be from 
Revolut, mentioning the conversation shed had with her other bank account provider. They 
knew the same details and took her through some security steps. She was told she needed 
to move her money to a safe account and for safety reasons the account wouldnt be in her 
name.
At some point she downloaded AnyDesk which allowed the scammers to see what she was 
doing. She says they talked her through each screen and any warnings that popped up and 
told her how to proceed with the payments. When asked Miss R says she doesnt recall 
receiving questions from Revolut, but says she was panicking during the whole thing. She 
doesnt recall being given a cover story by the scammers.
Miss R said she thought the calls were genuine as the callers had personal information 
about her and her accounts. 
Miss R made two payments to a new payee for £30 and £24,500 respectively. She received 
a no match on the confirmation of payee and a warning that explained the recipients name 
shed entered didnt match the account name the money was being transferred to. And a 
general warning which included the wording remember, fraudsters can impersonate others 
and we will never ask you to make a payment. The second payment was stopped by 
Revolut and an in-app chat was started. 
The chat opened with the following 
The system has temporarily frozen your transaction of. we think it may be part of a scam 
or fraud. Were trying to keep your money protected, please bear with us while we check 
some details to make sure you really want to make this payment.
Miss R was then asked two questions
Have you been asked to install any apps such as AnyDesk or teamviewer?
Are you currently on the phone with someone who is asking you to transfer money?
To which Miss R replied no to both questions. And this was followed up with 
Thank you. It is always important to take your time when making a payment to someone 
new. Would you like me to decline the transfer for you, while you take some time to consider 
if you would like to transfer to this beneficiary?
Miss R contacted Revolut within an hour of the scam payments being made. Revolut looked 
into the matter but decided not to refund Miss R. It said Miss R was sufficiently warned by its 
security systems and although the second payment was picked up as highly suspicious, she 
failed to answer the questions correctly, leading to the app not showing her the proper 
warnings. So overall it didnt miss a chance to prevent the scam.
The investigator said the first payment of £30 wasnt significant enough to have warranted 
intervention by Revolut. And although the £24,500 was flagged she felt the warning given 
was generic and the questioning and explanations from Revolut could have gone further. 
She said it didnt provide context about the questions it did ask or give Miss R any 
information about how she could have protected herself from scams. And Miss R wasnt 
given a cover story so with the right questioning from Revolut, she thought the scam could 
have been exposed. 
But she also went on to say she thought Miss R should bear equal liability for her loss. She 
said this because Miss R had concerns about who she was transferring the money to. Shed 
been told her account with a different bank had been compromised but not her Revolut 
account. Although she questioned some things she was told by the scammers, she 
proceeded with the payments anyway. 
Revolut disagreed it said:
- There were many opportunities for Miss R to realise the call as fraudulent, she was 
asked questions by the bank that clearly applied to her situation and being asked 
these should have raised her suspicions.
- Miss R was asked a series of questions prior to making the payment and when her 
payment was put on hold it included a warning which said, our system has 
temporarily frozen your transactions because we think it may be part of a scam or 
fraud.
- If Miss R had answered one of the questions truthfully it would have uncovered what 
was happening, but she didnt.
- Miss R was unreasonably and totally convinced by the scammer that an employee at 
another bank would ask a customer to ignore another banks warning and not answer 
truthfully to clear anti-fraud questions. And so, it believes any further questions would 
have been answered in the same way by Miss R.
- After Miss R had answered all the questions, the Revolut agent had no choice but to 
allow the transfer.
The investigator responded to say:
- she had acknowledged there were failings on Miss Rs part, and she concluded 
shared liability in her findings. 
- Miss R was being directed by scammers to move between the warnings. Businesses 
are aware thats how scammers operate, and the pressure consumers can be put 
under.
- The Revolut agent could have done more to highlight how these scams work, 
including explaining what it meant when it asked questions about remote access 
software  what this was, how it can be used by scammers etc.
- The questions didnt have any explanation about why they were being asked. All the questions were closed questions.
- Overall, she didnt think Revolut had ascertained enough about the payment purpose 
before deciding to make it.
Revolut continued to disagree. It said:
- It asked clear and concise questions when it stopped the payment about installing 
remote access software and being on the phone with anyone at the time of making 
the payment. And because she answered negatively to those two questions, it 
doesnt think Miss R could have been dissuaded from authorising the payment, no 
matter what it said, as she was being told what to do and say by the scammers.
- Whilst there is a slight possibility the scam could have been exposed it has a duty to 
protect customers from financial harm and not guess which scam they are falling 
victim to. It has to strike a careful balance between protecting customers and not 
delaying legitimate transfers. It cant be expected to stop every suspicious transfer 
and explain every possible scam every time.
- At the time of the transfer Miss R had said she wasnt asked to ignore warnings, she 
was paying someone she didnt know, she hadnt downloaded remote access 
software and wasnt on the phone (with someone else) at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to. 
I have since separately contacted Revolut, to say I agreed with the outcome reached by the 
investigator, as well as asking for some further evidence about the warnings it provided, I 
also said;
- Whilst Revolut engaged with Miss R during the course of the scam payments I wasnt 
persuaded the questions and responses it gave were proportionate. 
- Miss R was making a significantly large and out of character payment where the 
Confirmation of Payee (COP) did not match. 
- There were no questions asked about the nature of the payment or who was being 
paid and why. And those types of questions would have been reasonable and 
proportionate in the situation. 
- I also said that based on the two specific questions that Revolut asked I wasnt 
persuaded how Revolut had been satisfied that Miss R wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. 
- I also hadnt seen any persuasive evidence for the basis of Revolutss argument that 
better questioning wouldnt have exposed the scam or prevented her from making 
the payments. And Miss R says she doesnt recall being given a cover story by the 
scammers. 
I recommended that Revolut follow the investigators recommendations. 
Revolut disagreed. It said Miss R selected something else as the payment reason and she 
was forced to answer the questions and start a chat with one of its customer support 
agents. And this it the most incisive form of intervention for bank transfers that could be 
expected. And the additional questions covered multiple scam signs such as impersonation 
scam and romance scams. And Miss R lied around nine times on the chat.
It went on to say Miss R was under the scammers spell and further intervention wouldnt 
have been effective. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I see no reason to depart from the investigators original recommendations. 
Its not in dispute that Miss R has been defrauded. The payments made to the scam were 
authorised. Miss R says she followed the instructions of the scammers to move her money 
to keep it safe.  So, even though she didnt intend the payments to go to a fraudster, the 
payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. Revolut had an 
obligation to follow the payment instructions it received, and Miss R is presumed liable for 
the losses in the first instance. 
But thats not the end of the story. Taking into account the law; regulators rules and 
guidance; relevant codes of practice; and, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider that Revolut should:
- Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
And as a matter of good industry practice, I think Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have 
done more here. Whilst I appreciate Revolut is generally expected to follow payment 
instructions, that isnt an unfettered duty. Reasonable checks and balances are also required 
as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against 
the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit to what can reasonably be done. 
But in this case, Im conscious that Revolut had already disrupted the payment journey by 
blocking the payment and starting the in -app chat with Miss R.  And Im not persuaded that 
the subsequent action it took was enough to meet its obligations to protect Miss R from 
financial harm or from fraud. 
I appreciate that Revolut warned Miss R that it considered the transactions to be suspicious. 
But it didnt give any further information about why the payment appeared suspicious  or 
any information about the type of scam Miss R was at risk from (or really any types of 
scams). Without that information, Miss R couldnt be expected, from this warning alone, to 
understand why the payment was suspicious or that a scammer might be involved.
Yet Revolut allowed her to re-make the transaction immediately afterwards, despite
knowing nothing more about the purpose of the payment or the circumstances surrounding 
it.
I satisfied Revolut should have done more in relation to the risk it identified. For example, 
after
blocking the payment, it wouldve been more appropriate to ask her questions about the 
reason for the payment and the payee  especially in light of the value of the transaction and 
she already decided to proceed when there was a no match on the beneficiary account 
name. Revolut has argued that Miss R lied, and this inhibited its ability to provide appropriate 
warnings, expose the scam or prevent her losses. I appreciate its point that it can only react 
to the information its given, as well at the information it has about a customers account 
usage and the payments being made at the time. But to remind Revolut, it only asked two, 
very narrow, closed questions to Miss R, without providing any context about why they might 
be relevant in her circumstances or how scammers use these tools to trick consumers. As 
Ive said before if Revolut had asked more questions about the payment itself it might have 
been able to provide more helpful and relevant warnings. And given some steps or actions 
Miss R could have taken to protect herself from the scam. 
Of course, I can never be certain that the scam would have been exposed. And Revolut 
argues that it wouldnt have been able to in this instance, because Miss R was so hooked in 
by the scammers. Miss R says she doesnt recall being given a cover story by the 
scammers, if she had been questioned further about the payments. I agree its possible that if 
she had been asked more questions by Revolut then the scammers may well have been 
able to provide a cover story, given she was on the phone to them, and they could see her 
phone screen at the time. But Revolut would need to be satisfied by those responses that 
Miss R didnt remain at risk of financial harm when proceeding with the payments. I also 
think any answers to those questions would need to be considered in light of the value of the 
payment to a new payee and where there had been a no match on the beneficiary account 
so any answers Miss R provided wouldve needed to stack up against that information as 
well. And in all likelihood, Im not persuaded they would have done given how unusual all 
those factors were. 
So, on balance Im satisfied that Revolut didnt do enough here when it intervened with the 
second payment Miss R made. And ought to refund 50% of her losses, plus interest.
The investigator also set out that Miss R ought to remain liable for 50% of her losses here. 
There were several red flags about what she was being asked to do. These were covered by 
the investigator, but in summary these include:
- Being asked to move the money on from Revolut when she was told her original 
bank account had been at risk, not her Revolut account. 
- Making a payment to an unknown beneficiary, 
- Not reviewing or considering the limited warnings she was given by Revolut. 
- And answering the questions in the way that she did when they were relevant to her 
circumstances and questioning why she was told to do that by the scammers. 
I agree with these findings and that Miss R ought to remain equally liable for her losses.
Putting things right
I direct Revolut Ltd to refund Miss R 50% of her losses of the £24,500 payment plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of the payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Miss Rs complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman