DRN-4211198
The complaint
Miss L has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In April 2023, Miss Ls card and PIN were used for a cash machine withdrawal and two point 
of sale payments, totalling about £6,000.
Miss L says she lost her card on a night out and the subsequent spending wasnt her. She 
hadnt used her PIN during the night out, it wasnt recorded anywhere, she hadnt told it to 
anyone, it wasnt shared with anything else, no one had been with her when shed last 
entered it, and she didnt know how anyone else couldve known it.
HSBC held Miss L liable for the payments in dispute, as theyd been made with her genuine 
card and PIN and there wasnt a likely way someone couldve learned the PIN without her 
permission. They also noted that Miss L checked her online banking a number of times while 
the disputed payments were happening, but didnt report things until after the fact.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, HSBC can hold Miss L liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from HSBCs technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Ls 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. It was not a cloned card. So I can see that these 
transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Miss L consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made by someone who Miss L 
didnt know  such as a third-party thief or fraudster.
As noted above, the payments were made using Miss Ls correct PIN from the very first try. 
So whoever made these payments knew the PIN. But Miss L has been clear that she didnt 
record, give out, or share her PIN, nor let anyone see her enter it. And she hadnt used her 
PIN during the night out or for many hours before, so there was no reasonable opportunity 
for a thief or fraudster to watch her enter it and learn it that way. So theres no likely or 
plausible way that an unknown party couldve learned Miss Ls PIN without her consent.
Further, I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before the card is reported lost. But here, the person using the card checked the 
balance and made the smallest payment, then waited over 7 hours to use the card again for 
the bulk of the disputed spending. They left a very substantial balance remaining in the 
account. And in that first transaction, they didnt even withdraw the maximum amount of 
cash they could. It is most unlikely that a thief would act this way. This is much more 
consistent with the behaviour of someone who knew the account would not be imminently 
blocked  such as the accountholder or someone acting with her permission.
I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
Next, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made without Miss Ls consent 
by someone who she knew, such as a friend or family member. But thats not likely or 
plausible either. Miss L was out with people who shed only met a couple of times, and she 
didnt make any PIN payments on the occasions she was with them. And again, the PIN 
wasnt otherwise written down, shared, or told to anyone. So there was no opportunity for 
any of the known parties present to learn Miss Ls PIN without her consent.
Finally, Ive considered the possibility that the disputed payments were made by Miss L or 
someone shed given her permission to.
This possibility is both likely and plausible. It explains how someone was able to use 
Miss Ls genuine card and the correct PIN. It also fits with the pattern of the payments, such 
as the large gap between disputed payments and the fact that the person using the card 
didnt spend nearly as much as they could have as quickly as they could have.
Further, I can see that Miss L checked her online banking repeatedly in the hours between 
disputed payments. I can see this was her as she logged in using her Face ID. So she 
wouldve seen that her card was being used. But she didnt tell HSBC that things were wrong 
until after the fact. It seems unlikely that Miss L would wait so long to report the disputed 
payments if they were being made without her consent.
And Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss L 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
Miss L pointed out that there was an hours difference between the times of the payments 
HSBC had given her on the phone, and the times in the card report. Thats just because 
some systems report things in GMT, and some in BST, which at that time had an hours 
difference. Its not significant. Im satisfied that these payments were properly authenticated 
using Miss Ls real physical card and the correct PIN.I do appreciate that Miss L would like to see CCTV footage. Such footage is only kept for 
about a month. But even if it were still available, it wouldve only shown what the person 
making the transactions looked like. It would not have shown whether they had Miss Ls 
permission or not. And as I explained above, based on the evidence it is not likely that the 
payments were made without Miss Ls consent. So even if the CCTV showed someone other 
than Miss L, Id still find its most likely that they were acting with Miss Ls permission.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Ls genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way an unknown person did this, or that someone 
known to Miss L did this without her permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that 
Miss L made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss L to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for HSBC to decline a refund in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman