DRN-3957563
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him and then raised the credit 
limit when he could not afford it.
What happened
Briefly, Mr B applied for a credit facility of £100 in April 2018. Drafty approved a credit facility 
of £200 on 2 May 2018. In July 2018 the credit limit was raised to £600 and remained at that.
Mr B complained to Drafty in 2021 and received a final response letter (FRL) which Mr B did 
not agree with and so he referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. A 
second FRL was received by Mr B dated 23 November 2021 in which it explained it had 
altered its view. Drafty said that having reviewed the account and the way Mr B had been 
using it, then that may not have been sustainable in the long term and so it was content to 
put things right for Mr B from 11 December 2019. 
In June 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. But that from 11 July 2019 Drafty 
ought to have ceased allowing Mr B from using the facility and offered Mr B forbearance. 
Mr B accepted our adjudicators view. 
Drafty agreed to this uphold date stipulated by our adjudicator and said it would refund the 
interest and charges paid towards all the drawdowns from 11th July 2019, amounting to 
£525.39 (£488.51 for interest paid, £46.10 for 8% annual interest, minus £9.22 for 20% 
mandatory tax withholding in line with HMRC regulations). Additionally, Drafty said it would 
remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 11th July 2019.
These figures are July 2022 calculations and so are out of date.The fact that in July 2022 
Drafty could make these assertions and calculations suggests to me that it still owns and/or 
has some level control over the debt. 
But Drafty made the point that any amount given to Mr B before this date was affordable and 
after this date was unaffordable so Drafty was well within its rights to collect the principal as 
well as interest on any drawdowns given prior to the uphold date.
The outstanding issue is an unresolved detail surrounding the redress and that is the reason 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
I will not be reviewing the merits of the complaint as that has been resolved, effectively, as 
both parties have agreed to the uphold date of 11 July 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the merits part of the Drafty account complaint has been agreed between the parties, 
then I am looking only at the redress calculations formula. 
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold  as accepted by Drafty  was that the continual 
repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted it to have done 
something rather than allow that repayment pattern to continue. 
Our adjudicator thought 11 July 2019 was the right date. Drafty ought to have realised that 
even though Mr B was generally meeting his minimum monthly repayments as scheduled, 
these payments were only servicing the debt and not making any inroads into the 
outstanding balance. 
There were several actions Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were taken 
and it agrees about that, its been passed to me to decide what Drafty ought to do fairly and 
reasonably to put things right. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what 
they already owe. Where Mr Bs repayment record suggested he was already struggling to 
repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on 
Mr Bs balance is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached where 
Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr B to repay what he owed, 
then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this total balance from 11 July 2019 
onwards. 
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree but thats my decision. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that the account was passed to a third party collector but the loan 
ownership remains with Drafty. So, it should bring that debt back in-house, remove any of 
the third party charges allocated to the account and not pass them on to Mr B. And Drafty 
should do as I have set out below. 
Re-work Mr Bs credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 11 July 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 11 July 2019
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC does 
as I have outlined above in the putting things right section. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman