DRN-2792130
The complaint
Mr O complains that Zenith Insurance plc caused an increase in the premium for his motor 
insurance policy. He wants £500 compensation and a refund of the premium increase. 
What happened
Mr O was involved in an incident in 2018 that led to Zenith recording a claim against his 
motor insurance policy. The claim was kept open and this led to an increase in Mr Os 
premium. Mr O said he then couldnt afford to drive. Zenith said it was standard industry 
practice to keep a claim open whilst it was being investigated, and this would affect the No 
Claims Discount (NCD) and premium. It said it had now closed the claim, and Mr O should 
ask his new insurer to recalculate his premium. But it said his premium may still be 
increased due to the incident.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She saw that the 
claim was now recorded as closed. She thought Zenith had provided Mr O with a letter to 
show his new insurer so that it could rerate his premium. 
Mr O asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O feels frustrated that he couldnt afford the increased premium, 
and this stopped him from driving. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr O complained earlier about delays in his claim and this has already been 
considered by our service. So I cant look at this issue any further, but just the premium 
increase. 
As the investigator has explained, its standard industry practice for a claim to be kept open 
whilst its being investigated or until liability is agreed. In that case, the claim is recorded as a 
fault and this will affect the NCD and premium. 
I can see that Mr Os claim was kept open by Zenith because liability was being disputed 
with the other drivers insurer and it had yet to recover its outlay. I can see that in Section 14 
of the policy booklet, No Claims Discount, it states:
If you make a claim and we cannot recover the amount we pay, we will reduce the discount 
even if the event was not your fault.
When this dispute was settled, the claim was closed, and recorded as non-fault. I think thats 
standard industry practice and I cant say that Zenith treated Mr O unfairly or unreasonably 
in this. 
I think Zenith clearly explained to Mr O that he should ask his new insurer to recalculate his 
premium, using its letter as proof that the claim has now been closed. But it also explained 
that the incident, despite being recorded as non-fault, could also affect his premium. Again, I 
cant say that this is unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman