DRN-3280019
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs V complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. They are not happy that it turned 
down a claim under their premier guarantee insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs V bought a new house in 2013 and moved in the following year. Before they 
moved in they noticed a few cracks that were repaired by the builder before moving in.
In 2017 Mr T and Mrs V noticed a few cracks and got a plasterer in to undertake some 
repairs in 2019 who suggested they got a structural engineer in to look at the damage. And 
Mr T and Mrs V went on to make a claim under their insurance policy with Amtrust. 
As part of the claim process Mr T and Mrs V got their own engineers report which Amtrust 
considered alongside its own appointed engineers report. And it undertook monitoring for 
any further movement at the property for about a year but turned down the claim. This was 
because it was satisfied the issues at the house related to settlement, which isnt covered 
under the policy, as opposed to subsidence. And it felt the problems had most likely started 
before they moved into the property. But Mr T and Mrs V didnt agree so they complained to 
this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T and Mrs V but didnt uphold their complaint. 
Although she sympathised with the position Mr T and Mrs V found themselves in she didnt 
think, on the evidence provided, Amtrust had done anything wrong. It had appointed an 
independent engineer and considered his findings alongside Mr T and Mrs Vs own report. 
And ultimately it was satisfied the cracks and damage Mr T and Mrs V were facing now had 
started before they bought the property and the policy was taken out. And that the problems 
were caused by settlement which wasnt covered by the policy.
As Mr T and Mrs V didnt agree, maintaining the problems they faced were separate to the 
issues they reported to the builder before they went through with the purchase of the 
property; that the depth of the property foundations werent deep enough; and that the 
problems were in fact subsidence, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr T and Mrs V have 
found themselves, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T and Mrs V, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It is clear there have been ongoing issues at Mr T and Mrs Vs property culminating in them 
making a claim under their policy and instructing their own engineer to prepare a report in 
relation to this in April 2019. Their report suggested The property has suffered foundation 
movement. It appears the foundation movement has been caused by trees and vegetation 
and that this movement may be ongoing. And goes on to say it would seem that the 
intention was to construct the property on non-shrinkable strata. However, based on the trial 
pits excavated for the purposes of this report, it would appear that the property, in whole or 
in part, is constructed on shrinkable strata. Further investigations are recommended to 
provide more details of the founding strata across the site.
Amtrust considered Mr T and Mrs Vs report and appointed their own engineer to investigate 
further who reported their initial findings. They said a further, more substantial site 
investigation was required but suggested the claim related to a continuation of a problem 
that was in existence at purchase.  
This was undertaken and a number of site visits took place - detailed monitoring took place 
including bore holes and soil tests. The monitoring concluded that no significant movement 
to be taking place with a maximum variation of only 0.42mm over nearly a full 12 months. It 
is of note that the reporting period included the exceptionally dry summer of 2019 (in this 
part of the UK when numerous new clay shrinkage problems were reported), yet no 
seasonal cyclical pattern to the movement has been seen. And ultimately concluded There 
is therefore no evidence at all that we are concerned with clay subsoil shrinkage due to the 
trees. No other external influences have been found and we have found nothing therefore to 
suggest that we are concerned with anything other than with a simple differential 
settlement/bedding down issue caused only by the weight of the structure compressing the 
ground.
So, the substantial investigation over a year long period suggested the problem was due to 
settlement and that indications are therefore that the reported cracking is a continuation of 
the same problem that was in existence at purchase. And, importantly, that the The site 
investigations results confirm that the house is built on mainly non shrinkable or low 
shrinkable soils and the monitoring has not revealed any seasonal cyclical pattern to the 
movement. I know Mr T and Mrs V dont agree with the position taken by Amtrust, but I find 
Amtrusts evidence and position persuasive.
I say this as Amtrusts reports and monitoring took place over a significant period of time and 
after Mr T and Mrs Vs engineer produced his report which suggested the cause of the 
foundation movement to the property seems most likely to be due to trees and vegetation 
causing shrinkage. But their engineer hasnt provided any further comment or report after 
Amtrust undertook its investigation and monitoring over a period of nearly twelve months 
which suggests otherwise. And Mr T and Mrs Vs engineer wasnt categoric in his findings 
originally - he just pointed to what he thought was most likely at that point in time so an 
update here, following consideration of Amtrusts engineers findings, would have been 
helpful.
Similarly, I know Mr T and Mrs V feel the foundations on their property arent deep enough or 
to the industry standard which has contributed to the vegetation causing the problems at 
their property. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to support this position. And Amtrust 
has relied on its engineers findings who said The site investigations have confirmed that the 
house is built on mainly non shrinkable or low shrinkable soils and there has been no 
evidence of seasonal cyclical pattern to the movement. This would rule out any influence of the nearby trees on the property. And that There have been no other external influences 
such as water leakage from drains. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr T and Mrs V have 
found themselves, I dont think Amtrust have acted unreasonably in turning down the claim. 
As it feels the issues have been caused by settlement (Loss or damage caused by or 
consequent upon normal settlement or bedding down of a Housing Unit) which is excluded 
under the policy.
Finally, I note Mr T and Mrs V indicated to our investigator that they would get a further 
report or commentary from their original engineer in response to Amtrusts findings, but 
nothing has been forthcoming. So, Ive only been able to consider the evidence before me, 
without any further comment from Mr T and Mrs Vs appointed engineer, in forming this 
decision. However, if Mr T and Mrs V get any further evidence in support of their position, 
including a report or commentary from their engineer, I would expect Amtrust to consider 
this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman