DRN-2715551
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Cuvva Limited treated him unfairly by refusing to offer him motor 
insurance as they said he hadnt disclosed information about previous incidents at the 
earliest opportunity. 
What happened
Mr C had two existing insurance policies on two separate vehicles - one in his name and one 
in his wifes. In March 2020, Mr C tried to take out a one-day motor insurance policy through 
Cuvva using their online app so he could drive another family members car. He completed 
the information he was asked for and attempted to complete the application.
Whilst completing the payment details, Mr C received an error message saying he couldnt 
complete the transaction and needed to call Cuvvas customer service team. Mr C called 
Cuvva and was told by the call handler that he hadnt declared an incident in 2019. 
Mr C said he was surprised that he hadnt been asked about accidents whilst using the app 
to apply for the insurance policy. So he told the call handler about the previous accidents 
hed had in 2016 and 2019 on his own policy. He was then told by Cuvva that neither of 
these were the incident in question. At this point Mr C realised the incident must relate to an 
incident on his wifes policy rather than his own - so he also provided details of these.
The call handler updated the system and told Mr C he should resubmit the cover request 
through the app now this information was on file. So Mr C tried to do this, but the app 
declined his request as it said information had previously been withheld. So Mr C contacted 
Cuvva again.
Mr C was told that the underwriters had declined him insurance cover because he hadnt 
provided all relevant information at the earliest opportunity and before trying to purchase the 
policy. 
Mr C felt this was unfair as it had only been around fifteen minutes in total for him to make 
the initial application and then have the call with Cuvva and reapply on the app. He felt that 
Cuvva hadnt been clear when theyd asked about incidents and that hed thought this 
meant convictions - not accidents - and this wasnt standard language.
He also said he wasnt aware that because hed arranged the policies for himself and his 
wife separately, that they would both be in his name and he would need to declare any 
accidents that his wife had. He felt that Cuvva had acted unreasonably when hed tried to 
explain what had happened and in how theyd processed his application. He felt theyd 
implied his error was intentional - so he made a complaint.
Cuvva didnt uphold the complaint. They said the app asked customers to declare all 
incidents which included as part of the explanation that named driver claims or pending 
claims should be included. So they thought this was clear. They also said that as theyd 
helped Mr C add the incident to his application, this would be classed as a late declaration 
by the underwriters and it would be their decision whether or not to offer insurance. 
They did however apologise that Mr C had been upset by the wording used by their call 
handler. They said it wasnt meant to be an accusation and that they had provided feedback 
about this. Mr C didnt agree and was worried that Cuvva had noted this declined insurance 
cover against him. So he asked this service to look at his complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld in part. He said that Cuvva had 
confirmed they hadnt recorded the underwriters decline of cover against Mr C, so Mr C 
didnt need to declare this on any future applications. However, he did say that Cuvva 
werent the underwriters so if Mr C was unhappy about the declined cover, he would have to 
raise this separately. 
Our investigator didnt agree that the Cuvva app was unclear. He said that hed looked at the 
icon to provide further clarification on a point and he was satisfied that the explanation of an 
incident was clear. He also thought that the questions Mr C was asked on the app were 
reasonable, and that although Mr C may not have realised, he needed to declare about his 
wifes policy, as it was in his name it would have been relevant to the risk.
 
However, he thought that Cuvvas call hander would have known from their underwriting 
criteria that Mr C was unlikely to get the policy after the misunderstanding  but they told him 
to apply anyway. Which he didnt think was fair. He also said he recognised that Mr C had 
been upset by the wording used by Cuvva and recommended £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Cuvva didnt agree. They said that Mr C had declared the incidents in his own name before 
making the application, it was only the ones in his wifes name that he didnt. So they felt he 
was aware of what was required. 
Cuvva told us that Mr C had been asked to call them before making the payment, so there 
had only been one attempt to apply for the policy, not two. They also said their call handler 
couldnt have known Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy as he hadnt actually made the 
application at that point, and they wouldnt want to falsely tell a customer they cant have a 
policy when that may not actually be the case. 
Cuvva also said they didnt think Mr C had been inconvenienced as it had only taken him a 
couple of minutes to reapply after their call handler had updated the system to record all the 
incidents. So they didnt feel Mr C had been treated unfairly. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Future declaration
Mr C unhappy with the way his application was declined and concerned about how he has to 
declare the declined quote going forward to any future insurers and the impact this will have. 
Firstly, I just want to reassure Mr C that Cuvva have confirmed this decline to offer cover 
wont have any impact on any future insurance applications. Theyve told us that this wasnt 
a refusal of insurance and that theyve only said they didnt want to offer Mr C a quote for 
cover. This means that this isnt detailed on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database, so he doesnt need to declare this going forward. 
Wording used by the call handler
Mr C has told us that he was unhappy with the wording used by the call handler when they 
discussed the information Mr C had entered on the app, and what was being implied. 
However, Ive seen that Cuvva have apologised for this and said that this will be reviewed 
with the member of staff. So Im satisfied that theyve done enough here to put this right.Incident declaration
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
In this case, Cuvva have said that that they feel Mr C made a misrepresentation by not 
taking reasonable care, and therefore they followed their underwriters criteria not to offer a 
quote. They also feel that the declarations and information required as part of the app 
process were clear. 
Mr C has told us that he feels the use of the word incident was unclear and wasnt a 
common term that would be recognised by a general person completing the app. Mr C also 
told us he didnt provide any information about his claims on the app because he wasnt 
aware of what this meant. But I dont agree. I say this because the word incident is 
commonly used in the insurance industry. 
I understand Mr C feels there were alternative terms that couldve been used, however, 
Cuvva have explained that theyd had feedback from customers about the use of the word 
accident and felt it caused conflict and therefore dont use that word. And based on what 
theyve told me and the usual industry standard this doesnt feel like an unreasonable 
decision. I also think that incident was clearly explained in the app process and Im satisfied 
this was at a level that would be understood by consumers.
Ive also seen screen shots of the questions Mr C was asked on the app and Ive seen that if 
he was unsure on what he was being asked to provide for incidents he could have clicked 
on the question mark on that page. This would have taken him to a further screen and 
provided him with a list of different scenarios he would need to provide information about 
when answering this question. I recognise what Mr C has said about the size of the mobile 
phone screen, however, this was designed for a mobile app and based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think the icons were clear enough to show there was further information available if 
needed. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr C didnt know what he needed to provide here as Cuvva have 
told us that Mr C provided information about the two claims in his own name and policy on 
the app before he was told something was missing. I appreciate Mr C may not remember 
this due to the time thats passed, and Im unable see the evidence of this as Cuvva have 
deleted the application information as Mr C requested. However, Ive seen that Cuvva said 
there was only one incident that hadnt been disclosed  the one on Mr Cs wifes policy  so 
this means that Cuvva must have already had the information about Mr Cs incidents as 
these werent requested.
I understand that Cuvva feel the question they asked about incidents was clear enough that 
a consumer should disclose anything relating to both a policy holder or any named driver. 
However, whilst I think that Mr C understood what the question was asking - given the 
information he provided information about his own policy - I also think that its reasonable that 
because of how Mr C and his wife have their policies set up that Mr C didnt realise he 
needed to include his wifes claim. 
I say this because I think Mr C was trying to complete the application as honestly as possible 
as he did include details of the accidents hed had. Whilst I recognise the app says that this 
should also include accidents from named drivers, I think its possible that because the other 
car is predominantly used by his wife that he may have been confused and simply treated 
this as her policy rather than a second one in his name. 
I can understand that as Mr C was only looking to take cover out in his own name rather 
than jointly for that day and the urgency of needing the policy that he may have got confused 
by the actual list of incidents needed as he didnt recognise his wife as a named driver  
rather a separate policy holder. 
I dont think it was unfair of Cuvva to decline offering a quote to Mr C based on the 
information hed entered on the app as this is their commercial decision and its not for me to 
tell a business what underwriting criteria to use. And I think theyve recognised this was 
unlikely to deliberate as theyve treated this as a careless misrepresentation which feels fair. 
However, I can understand why Mr C felt hed been treated unfairly. I say this because Mr C 
said hed made an honest mistake when entering the incident details, which hed tried to 
correct when he called Cuvva as advised upon reaching the payment screen. Hed then 
been told to submit the quote again, but this was declined because of the earlier incorrect 
information. 
I recognise Cuvva say this is their process as they cant say whether or not a quote will be 
accepted, but based on what theyve told us, I dont agree. Cuvva have told us they would 
already have applied the underwriters criteria at this point, so Mr C wouldnt have been 
eligible for a new quote and would always have been declined. So asking him to make a 
further application was a waste of his time. 
Mr C has told us that Cuvvas app wording says under the Right to rectification section that 
You can login to the app to correct any inaccuracies in the information on your account. 
Some information can also be updated by our support team - so please speak to us if you'd 
like any help. He said thats different to what he was told when he called and spoke to a call 
handler at Cuvva who said that if the information provided on the app was incorrect or not 
given on the first opportunity then the offer of insurance would be invalid and would be 
treated as misuse. 
Mr C feels this is unfair as there wasnt any way to use the app to correct inaccuracies on his 
account and he hadnt been given any other opportunity to do so in any other way. So he felt 
Cuvvas terms were misleading.
 
Cuvva have explained that their underwriters wont cover drivers who have had a recent at-
fault or joint-fault incident that wasnt declared before trying to purchase a policy. They also 
said that if a consumer says on the app that they havent had any previous incidents, the app 
wont let them edit the screen after they confirm that. 
I acknowledge that Cuvva make it clear that all data needs to be accurate. However their 
app process doesnt give the opportunity to correct information if something has genuinely 
been incorrectly completed. It also implies on the app that you can correct the claims 
information using the support team  but based on what Cuvva have said thats not true after 
youve gone past a certain point on the app process - as the quote request then doesnt 
meet the underwriters criteria. So, I dont think its clear enough on the app or terms and 
conditions that there are caveats on when amendments can be made or when support can 
be sought  without having an impact.
Putting things rightBased on what Ive seen, I think the apps terms are conflicting when explaining what 
amendments can be made and up to what point. I also dont think its reasonable that the 
app tells a consumer that theres wrong information and that you need to call to correct it, but 
then appears to penalise you for doing so.
 
Ive also seen that Mr C explained to Cuvva that he felt the app was conflicting and the 
frustration this had caused him. I recognise that Mr C hasnt been financially disadvantaged 
by not being offered the quote, and that he doesnt have to declare this to future insurers 
which was causing him distress. 
However, I think Mr C has spent time and effort trying to resolve this which he wouldnt have 
done if the app was clearer. So, given the circumstances of the complaint, I think Cuvva 
should pay Mr C a total of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Cuvva Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman