DRN-4008077
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc carried 
out a business profile review.
What happened
T says it was contacted for information about its business by RBS. It attempted to meet the 
requirements and believed that it had. But it was then told that this wasnt the position and it 
had to take further steps to prevent the account being restricted.
RBS accepted that it has caused T difficulties in responding to its request and that T has 
been given conflicting information. It initially paid T £300 in compensation. It further accepted 
that T had provided information about its structure based on what it had been asked. And 
RBS said that its review team hadnt told T what was required or provided support for this. It 
said that the account had been restricted because there were discrepancies in the 
information. It paid T a further £200 in compensation and said it would review any charges 
that had arisen as a result of what happened. RBS then said that the review team would be 
in touch shortly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that RBS do more in relation to the complaint that had 
been referred to us as the compensation was fair. RBS did need the information to meet 
legal and regulatory requirements. She set out key dates when the representative of T had 
been in contact with RBS. And the time spent on the phone about this. She didnt think that 
this was a standard review case as Ts ownership structure was complex. She clarified that 
wed only be looking at things here up to the final response of 8 August 2022 and would set 
up a complaint for T about what has happened subsequently.
T didnt agree and believed that the case had already been referred to the ombudsman. It 
wanted to clarify that it wasnt complaining about the need for the review or saying that RBS 
needed to change its process. T said that in February and April 2022 it had discussed the 
requirements. And it took the removal of restrictions on the account each time as 
confirmation it had done what was needed. It had a call in May 2022 with a member of staff 
and went through the information again. That information given was accurate and any 
discrepancies were down to RBS which kept flip flopping and the repeated errors caused T 
to cease trading. T went on to explain that the issues continued after the final response 
letter. And that it saw this all part of the same issue. RBS hadnt applied a consistent 
approach and had caused unnecessary inconvenience and damage. This wasnt a complex 
business structure. It said that the events after 8 August 2022 were surely relevant, and T 
wanted these taken into account. If there are procedural reasons for setting up a new 
complaint then this should be done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to explain what I am considering and why. The second final response issued by 
RBS was dated 8 August 2022. Wed instead understood this to have been dated 6 
December 2022 when RBS sent us its business file. And its only when this case was being 
prepared for my review that this issue was identified. Weve not yet investigated what 
happened after the final response and RBS hasnt provided its information about that  and 
what it proposes to do. So, while I fully accept that T wants that looked into Im afraid thats 
not something I can fairly do now. 
I can see that T is in agreement that its not our role to review business processes or to 
comment on what RBS needs to obtain to meet regulatory requirements. So, I wouldnt as a 
resolution to a complaint be in a position to tell RBS to accept a particular document or piece 
of information, however many times T had discussed it. Or to say that the review should be 
completed. My understanding is that it is ongoing with unfortunately no defined end date. 
And I think its right that the parts that can fairly be reviewed now are. Any future complaint 
will take as its starting point the history to that point that Ive considered.
RBS has accepted Ts account of what happened. So, Im not going to go behind that and so 
analyse every part of the timeline. T did object to some of what our investigator had said 
about that. Broadly then, RBS wrote to T for information about the business in late 2021 and 
it says left a message in January 2022. The director of T has been indisposed and a 
representative has since been acting for T and responding to information requests. He was 
in contact after the account had been restricted in February 2022. And the restriction was 
then removed. He for a period was unable to access a portal to upload information and was 
given the impression by RBS that an accountants letter with the details would be 
acceptable. He also arranged to get that certified. That hadnt been looked at in April 2022 
when the account was restricted again. When he called he wasnt given a clear answer as to 
whether that would be acceptable. But he knew it had for a different business in the past. 
The restriction was removed. He did manage to access the portal in May and completed a 
document on it. He went through that information in a call with RBS later in May 2022 and 
followed the steps he was told to. Unfortunately, the account was frozen again in July 2022  
and that was removed again when he further complained.
Ive listened to the call he had with RBS at the end of May 2022. In spite of what had gone 
before including that he said he had provided the information previously, he patiently went 
through it again and explained the position with regard to the shareholders. One of the direct 
shareholders of T had passed away in 2014. And he also explained the other ownership. 
As Ive mentioned RBS does not disagree with what T says about how it has handled the 
review especially from February 2022. While I know that what the representative really wants 
is for the review to be concluded, Ive explained the position about that above.
I also know that T wants a continuation of the issues to be considered. I need to rule things 
off here as of 8 August 2022. And I find that the compensation for what happened to that 
point is reasonable. In making this finding Ive taken into account our published guidelines 
and that I dont have information to support increasing the compensation for the period in 
question. Ive borne in mind that T is a separate legal entity that cant suffer distress. And as 
Im not asking RBS to do anything more here I highlight that I use below the standard form of 
words in respect of this current complaint outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc need do no more than it has already, and which was to pay T £500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman