DRN-4303111
The complaint
Mr S and Miss T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has declined to refund them fully for 
payments they made to what they now understand was an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here and focus on what I consider is significant to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here. But in reviewing Mr S and Miss Ts complaint 
about Lloyds, I have carefully reviewed the detailed submissions made by both sides to this 
dispute.
In short, a friend of Mr S had recommended an investment scheme. It apparently offered 
returns of 50% per month. Between April and September 2019, Mr S and Miss T sent five 
payments of £10,000 by Faster Payments transfer from a Lloyds account.
However, their investment later proved inaccessible, and they realised the scheme hadnt 
been legitimate. In 2022 they reported the scam to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into what had happened. It accepted Mr S and Miss T had been the victims of 
an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). It attempted to recover their funds from the 
account theyd paid, but no funds remained.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from APP scams such as this 
one. But the CRM Code only came into force on 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply 
retrospectively. Lloyds said the CRM Code didnt apply to the first two payments made by 
Mr S and Miss T, which both pre-dated the introduction of the code. It said they had 
authorised both those earlier payments and it had no reason to prevent them from making 
the transactions in line with their instructions.
For the three final payments, Lloyds said it would reimburse 50% of the amount lost. Under 
the terms of the CRM Code, it could have done more to protect Mr S and Miss T from this 
scam. But it said Mr S and Miss T had gone ahead without having a reasonable basis for 
believing they were investing in a genuine scheme, so the loss should be shared equally. It 
paid Mr S and Miss T a further £100 to recognise delays in initially handling their scam claim.
Mr S and Miss T didnt accept this outcome. Our Investigator reviewed their complaint. She 
noted that Lloyds had initially blocked the first payment and spoken to Mr S about it. Lloyds 
had provided copy of the relevant call with Mr S in which hed said he was purchasing a 
tractor, had met the seller in person, trusted it was legitimate, and confirmed he wanted the 
payment to go ahead. In these circumstances the Investigator didnt think Lloyds could have 
reasonably prevented the loss that resulted from this payment. Had it intervened in later 
payments she thought the result would most likely have been the same.
For the final three payments (those covered by the CRM Code) she didnt think Lloyds 
needed to pay back Mr S and Miss T more than the 50% share it had already returned to 
them. This was because she thought Mr S and Miss T should have been concerned about 
how such exceptionally high rates of return were feasible and the lack of detail about how 
their funds would be invested. She thought the investment was simply too good to be true 
and didnt think Mr S and Miss T held a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for 
a genuine investment.
Mr S and Miss T didnt agree. Mr S said the call recording Lloyds had provided might relate 
to a purchase of a compact tractor hed made on a different date but said he couldnt 
evidence this because he didnt think the dates would match up. They thought it unfair that 
assumptions were being made about what would have happened had the bank intervened 
again in relation to a later payment, and that the CRM Code didnt cover the earlier 
payments  particularly as the second payment was made one day prior to the codes 
inception.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where clear or unambiguous evidence is unavailable, I am required to reach my 
findings on a balance of probabilities  in other words based on what I find most likely given 
the information and circumstances before me.
Firstly, Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers 
give it. As a starting point, a customer will therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made. There is no dispute that Mr S and Miss T authorised these payments, 
albeit having been deceived into believing this money was going to a genuine investment 
scheme. So, on the face of it they are liable for the resultant losses.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the final three payments made here fall within the scope of the 
CRM Code. However, the first two payments were made before the CRM Code took effect. 
The CRM Code is voluntary and not retrospective, and I cannot therefore require Lloyds to 
apply it to an earlier transaction even where the difference for the second payment was a 
matter of just one day.
Payments covered by the CRM Code
There is no dispute that the latter three payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code. But 
despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code also includes provisions allowing a 
firm not to fully refund APP scam losses in some situations.
Relevant here, this includes an exception to full reimbursement where the customer made a 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing 
with was legitimate, offering something genuine in return for the payment (so, the 
investment), or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Lloyds says this exception applies here. It says Mr S and Miss T made the payments without 
holding a reasonable basis for believing the investment was genuine, so are not entitled to 
be fully reimbursed. Lloyds accepted a 50% share of the loss    acknowledging it hadnt done 
everything required of it following the introduction of the CRM Code in respect of these three payments.
As Lloyds has accepted fault in relation to these three payments, and because the extent of 
any such fault does not determine the redress due under the terms of the CRM Code, the 
key issue remaining for me to determine here is whether Lloyds has fairly applied the 
exception to full reimbursement.
Ive considered the information submitted by Mr S and Miss T. The returns they were being 
offered were exceptional. I think the rate of 50% per month, and the expectation it would 
return £2.7m at the end of the 10-month term, was indeed too good to be true. At the least, 
this should have prompted Mr S and Miss T to exercise much greater caution before 
deciding to proceed and before sending significant sums of money. Yet the details they 
seem to have received about the nature of the investment were very limited. There was no 
explanation given as to how such a rate of return could be realised or sustained through an 
investment in gold or cryptoassets. 
All considered I dont think Mr S and Miss T held a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were going to a genuine investment. On that basis, Im satisfied Lloyds can fairly 
rely on the relevant exception to full reimbursement under the CRM Code, and it therefore is 
not required to reimburse more than the 50% it has already paid Mr S and Miss T.
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the relevant obligations or good industry 
practice but exists to provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless, I have 
also considered whether there is any reason that Mr S and Miss T might be entitled to 
greater reimbursement outside the provisions of the CRM Code. However, I dont find Lloyds 
breached any of those obligations or should be liable to reimburse Mr S and Miss T to a 
greater extent than it has already done under the CRM Code. I find that a 50% share of the 
loss is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Lloyds has already paid them this 
sum.
The payments not covered by the CRM Code
Payments one and two occurred prior to the date the CRM Code started. So as Ive noted 
above, the additional protection the Code offers does not apply to these payments.
Nevertheless, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, Id expect Lloyds to have 
been on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions and intervening in the event 
it had concerns a payment might result in financial harm through fraud or scam.
Lloyds says it did intervene on that basis in relation to payment one (on 29 April). It has 
provided a copy of the call it says it had with Mr S about the payment that same day. 
During the call recording, Mr S says hes trying to send a payment of £10,000. The Lloyds 
agent explains to Mr S why his payment was being held, and explains about the risk of 
scams, including why it was important he was honest in answering questions about the 
payment so the bank could help protect him.
When Mr S was asked what the purpose of the payment was, he stated it was to purchase a 
tractor. He said hed met the seller in person. When asked if he was happy, it was all 
genuine because a bank transfer was like giving someone cash, Mr S said he was totally 
fine with that, and trusted this individual. Mr S was asked to confirm his answers and that he 
hadnt been told by anyone to say anything false, which he confirmed.
Mr S says that he may have been confused, as he had been purchasing a compact digger 
for exactly the same amount at around that very time. However, when our Investigator asked him to evidence this, he declined, explaining that the dates likely wouldnt correspond.
However, in determining this case, the reason that Mr S gave the answers he did isnt 
material to the outcome I have reached. Rather I consider that what matters is whether 
Lloyds acted appropriately in relation to this and the later payments, given the answers Mr S 
provided during the call on 29 April. 
Having reviewed the call recording, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to proceed with this 
transaction and accept what Mr S was telling it at face value. There was no indication that 
Mr S was confused or otherwise mixing up his story. What he said appeared consistent with 
the payment instruction hed given the bank. I find Lloyds had no reasonable basis for 
concluding his answers were incorrect or false. Lloyds was therefore obligated to carry out 
the payment instruction in line with the request made. 
In relation to the later payments including payment two, it is relevant that these were being 
made to the same payee. Given the time that had elapsed between payments one and two, I 
dont find it unreasonable for Lloyds to have drawn the conclusion that the further payments 
related to the same transaction or that the payee remained trusted. It had no reason to 
assume otherwise, and the total amount across these five payments does not seem 
inconsistent with the purpose Mr S had previously told the bank  in other words the typical 
purchase cost of a tractor. 
While I appreciate that Mr S says he actually bought a compact tractor at around the same 
time (presumably at a total cost of £10,000), when he spoke to Lloyds he said the payment 
was simply for a tractor, and that would have been all Lloyds could have known at the time 
about what Mr S was buying. So a total price higher than £10,000 wouldnt have been an 
obvious discrepancy.
Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out valid payment instructions given by its 
customers. I dont find Lloyds would have identified further cause for concern about these 
payments following its discussion with Mr S. Rather, I find Lloyds was required to honour the 
payment instructions it had been given.
All taken into consideration I dont consider Lloyds could reasonably have prevented these 
payments or that it was at fault in not intervening again in relation to the later payments. As a 
result, I cant fairly require Lloyds to reimburse Mr S and Miss T for the first two payments (or 
to refund a greater proportion of the latter three than it has done under the terms of the CRM 
Code).
Recovery
Lastly, when Mr S and Miss T reported the scam in 2022, Lloyds took appropriate steps in 
attempting to recover all five payments. It appears it could have done so more swiftly than it 
did, but any such delay was brief, and Lloyds has paid Mr S and Miss T the sum of £100 in 
respect of how it initially handled this. I consider that sum fair in the circumstances. In any 
event I consider there was no realistic prospect of recovering their money in 2022, given the 
considerable time that had elapsed since the payments were made. No funds remained for 
Lloyds to recover, and it appears their money had long since been moved on from the 
beneficiary account (as would be expected in scams of this type).
Overall, I dont require Lloyds to refund Mr S and Miss T more than it already has paid them. 
I understand this is not the answer Mr S and Miss T were looking for. They have already 
explained they are considering now pursuing the matter through court action against Lloyds. 
However, having assessed all the information and arguments they have provided I have 
reached the outcome I have based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their complaint, and while I sympathise with them for the size of their 
outstanding loss, I cannot fairly require Lloyds to do more than it has already done.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S and Miss Ts complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman