DRN-4034339
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Society of Lloyd's handled his claim on his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr N had a home insurance policy with Society of Lloyd's. In December 2020 there was a 
fire at his home and he made a claim. The claim was accepted but as the property was of a 
non-standard construction it was agreed that the original builder and designer of the property 
would be engaged by Mr N to carry out the work. And Lloyds would instruct a loss adjuster 
to oversee the costs and ensure payment is made for insured work.
The work was carried out over the months that followed, however Mr N paid the contractor 
directly and struggled to recover funds from Lloyds. In August 2021 he made a complaint. 
He said the delayed payments had left him considerably out of pocket and Lloyds hadnt 
previously explained that it required further detail about the works in order for payment to be 
made.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was only liable to pay for insured work and not 
additional works Mr N had decided to have carried out at the same time. It said for this 
reason, it required detailed invoices when payment is requested so it could be clear which 
costs were being paid, and that they were covered under the policy. 
Mr N was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Since the complaint came to us, Mr N has confirmed that hes satisfied that all required 
payments have now been made by Lloyds. However he remains unhappy with how the 
claim was handled and that payments were delayed. He says that he had to instruct a 
solicitor to seek recovery of the outstanding costs and thinks Lloyds should reimburse him 
for the fees. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
he agreed there had been some delay in the payment of the claim costs which had caused 
Mr N some distress and inconvenience. He thought Lloyds should pay £250 compensation 
to apologise for this. However he didnt think it should reimburse Mr N for his legal cost as it 
was his choice to instruct a solicitor. 
Lloyds didnt agree that any compensation was due. It said the delays in payment were due 
to Mr Ns contractor and not its loss adjuster. Mr N still thought his legal costs should be 
covered, as he only sought legal advice due to the fact Lloyds communication was so 
unclear. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and service
I can see this has been a very distressing time for Mr N and his family. Theyve had to stay 
away from home in various locations while the repairs are carried out and have had to put up 
with temporary facilities for some time. Theyve also had further problems with lingering 
smoke smells since theyve returned. This has been particularly challenging due to the 
additional caring needs of his son. 
When considering this complaint I can only consider the aspects of the claim that Lloyds 
were responsible for. Rather than any distress caused by the claim itself or by contractors 
that werent appointed by Lloyds. So while I can see the claim was a very distressing and 
inconvenient time for Mr N and his family, I am only able to ask Lloyds to pay compensation 
for any additional distress caused by its actions.
Mr Ns property is of a non-standard construction and due to this repairs were carried out by 
the original contractor responsible for the build, rather than a contractor appointed by 
Lloyds. In situations such as this, its usual that the insurer will instruct a loss adjuster to 
sign off the works and ensure payment is made for all insured elements. And this is the 
process that was followed here.
As part of the claim, Lloyds are only obliged to pay for what is covered under the policy. Its 
therefore important that it is clear what work is being claimed for each time a payment 
request is made, so it can be sure the work is covered under the policy. Here Mr N had said 
that he was also going to carry out additional work to improve his property, on top of the 
claim related repairs. And because of this it was even more important that Lloyds was 
provided with the full detail of the work before making payment, as it wouldnt be liable for all 
the costs. 
I can see that when payment was initially requested, very little detail was provided about 
what work the payment was for. And this meant it wasnt possible for Lloyds to know if it fell 
within the limit of its liability. This is why some payments were delayed and I dont consider 
this to be unreasonable.  
However Mr N has said that Lloyds didnt make it clear that this was what was needed in 
order for payment to be made. This process is usual for insurers when validating claim costs 
and Id expect Mr Ns contractor to have been aware of these requirements. As it was the 
contractor who failed to provide enough detail, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this. 
Having said this I think Lloyds could have been clearer with Mr N about the reasons why the 
payments were being delayed. And if it had, Mr N could have assisted in getting the required 
level of detail and the payments may have been made more promptly. Because this didnt 
happen Mr N had to continually chase Lloyds and was left without being reimbursed large 
sums of money, for some time. This would have added to the distress and inconvenience of 
an already stressful claim. Based on this, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should 
pay £250 compensation to make up for this. 
Legal costs
Mr N has explained that hes had to instruct a solicitor in order to assist him with getting 
reimbursement for the work in this claim. And this has cost him nearly £2,000. While I 
understand why Mr N sought this advice and support, it was his choice to do so. And wasnt 
an essential cost relating to the claim. It therefore wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to cover 
these additional fees.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Society of Lloyd's to pay him 
£250 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman