DRN-1595032
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Secure Trust Bank Plc hasn't provided him with a proper 
breakdown of payments towards his loan, which he believes he has overpaid. He has also 
said Secure Trust Bank Plc took additional funds from his account in error and didn't phone 
him back when he was trying to get in touch about his complaint.
What happened
Mr H entered into a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement in August 2017 with Secure Trust Bank. 
The loan was for healthcare products costing £3495, with total interest of £1898.16 in 
addition to the principal sum. The duration of the agreement was 48 months and there was 
no payment due for the first 12 months of the agreement term.
In August 2019 Mr H made an overpayment of £2500 towards the loan and asked Secure 
Trust Bank to tell him how much of the principal sum remained outstanding. A £40 
settlement fee was also taken from Mr H's loan account. Mr H complained to Secure Trust 
Bank about this and wanted someone to get in touch with him, but no one called him back.
Secure Trust Bank apologised for taking the £40 settlement fee in error and refunded this. It 
also paid Mr H £50 compensation for the error and a further £25 for providing poor customer 
service when he tried to complain. It explained to Mr H that the early partial settlement 
calculations had been carried out in accordance with the relevant legislation and that the 
interest rebate he received had been applied correctly.
Mr H didn't agree. He said according to his calculations he has paid more than he should've 
under the agreement, and in particular, more in principal than the cost of the healthcare 
products.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. She said 
Secure Trust Bank had confirmed it had carried out the correct calculations. She also said 
these calculations are not straightforward, often involving complex computer processes, and 
that we would be unable to provide a calculation checking service.
Mr H disagreed, saying Secure Trust Bank should be able to provide him with the 
breakdown of interest and principal payments he requires, in order to prove that he hasn't 
overpaid. So the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided not to uphold Mr H's complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with this 
decision, but I'll explain why I won't be asking Secure Trust Bank to do more than it has 
already done.
Secure Trust Bank has apologised for taking a £40 settlement fee when it shouldn't have. It's 
also paid Mr H compensation for this and for the poor customer service it provided. I think that's fair and that the amount of compensation it's paid is reasonable, so I won't be asking it 
to do any more in respect of those errors.
I've seen the spreadsheet Secure Trust Bank has prepared detailing the payments and 
interest under the agreement, and the table of payments Mr H has put together. I've 
considered both these carefully. 
Mr H has referred to websites he's used, to calculate how his payment of £2500 should've 
affected the remaining amount of principal under the loan. I appreciate Mr H has gone to 
considerable effort in providing calculations which he believes show that he may have 
overpaid the loan. However, as Mr H has referred only to online calculators, and I can't 
confirm the accuracy of these, I can't say Mr H's calculations are more reliable than Secure 
Trust Bank's or that they raise any specific concerns about whether Secure Trust Bank has 
taken the correct amount from him in order to repay his loan.
Mr H's calculations may not be accurate for a number of reasons. Mr H's spreadsheet 
doesn't show the interest rebate being applied after the overpayment was made, whereas 
Secure Trust Bank's spreadsheet does. Secure Trust Bank has also said that Mr H hasn't 
taken into account the interest which accrued before the first payment date. Secure Trust 
Bank has confirmed that what Mr H has asked (namely, a breakdown of all payments 
showing how much of each has gone towards principal and how much of each has gone 
towards paying off interest) would not be possible for it to provide, due to the fact that 
complex computer processes are involved and it is not something that can be put together 
manually for him. I have considered this and decided it wouldn't be reasonable for me to ask 
Secure Trust Bank to do something it says it can't do, and something it is not obligated to do 
under the relevant regulations.
As our investigator has already mentioned, we don't provide a calculation checking service 
and Mr H would need to instruct an accounting expert to look into whose calculations are 
correct. Secure Trust Bank has confirmed it calculated the interest rebate in accordance with 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 and, in the absence of evidence 
that Secure Trust Bank did not do this, (such as evidence detailing where it has gone wrong 
in its calculations) I don't think Secure Trust Bank needs to do any more.
If Mr H is able to obtain evidence which can show specifically that Secure Trust Bank has 
not calculated the loan repayments according to the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004, then I would expect Secure Trust Bank to consider this and respond 
accordingly. Mr H will be able to bring a new complaint to this service if he is then 
dissatisfied with Secure Trust Bank's response. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman