DRN-3454875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Pepper Money Limited (trading as Pepper Money) incorrectly 
added late payment markers to their credit files in respect of their mortgage.
They also complain that Pepper:
didnt register and acknowledge their complaint about that as soon as it should have; 
didnt give them sufficient support when they were in financial difficulty;
misinformed them about the months covered by an interest only concession and 
when payments were due; 
took too long to resolve their complaint.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs J took a mortgage with Pepper for approximately £400,000, over a       
20 year term, on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage was on a fixed rate for 30 months, 
at which time it would move to a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) based variable 
rate.
Mr and Mrs J say their intention was to remortgage at the end of the fixed rate period to 
avoid going onto the variable rate but were prevented from doing so by the Covid pandemic. 
At that time, they suffered a drop in income and agreed two periods of Covid related 
payment deferrals with Pepper.
The final month of Mr and Mrs Js payment deferral was August 2020  a transactions 
statement shows that the mortgage payment was due on 31 August 2020 and a transaction 
to illustrate the payment deferral prevented the amount being recorded as arrears. The 
statement shows that the next payment became due on 30 September 2020 and was paid 
by card on 6 October 2020 and 19 October 2020.
Mr and Mrs J say they agreed with Pepper in November 2020 that they could pay interest 
only for three months and that would be backdated to cover Octobers payment. But Pepper 
recorded a late payment marker on their credit files for November 2020. Mr and Mrs J say 
they made numerous calls to rectify that, but when Pepper did remove the marker it made 
the same mistake in December 2020 and refused to remove that one. Mr and Mrs J say it 
took five months for Pepper to remove that marker and, during that time they were unable to 
remortgage as theyd planned. That meant their mortgage payments were based on the 
higher variable rate, costing them substantially more money than if Pepper hadnt added the 
late payment markers or had removed them promptly. Mr and Mrs J complained to Pepper.
In its final response letter dated 10 February 2021 Pepper said it had instructed credit 
reference agencies to remove the late payment marker for November 2020. But Decembers 
payment became due on 31 December 2020 and was not received until 28 January 2021. 
So, the reporting to credit reference agencies regarding December 2020s payment was 
correct.
Pepper upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint about its handling of the complaint they raised on 
16 December 2020 as it wasnt handled as a complaint until they raised it again in a call on 
19 January 2021. And it confirmed that information it gave to Mr and Mrs J was incorrect 
with regard to the date credit reference agencies were instructed to remove the late payment 
marker for November 2020. So, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs J £100 to compensate them for 
those errors.
Pepper didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about the interest chargeable changing to a 
variable rate at the end of the fixed rate term. Pepper said it made that clear in the mortgage 
offer.
Mr and Mrs J wrote to Pepper on 14 April 2021 expressing her disappointment that the credit 
file issue had not been resolved. 
Pepper wrote to Mr and Mrs J on 22 April 2021 with another final response letter. In that it 
said it would arrange for Mr and Mrs Js credit file to show December 2020s payment to be 
up to date as a gesture of goodwill, in view of other service failings. But it said its reporting to 
credit reference agencies had been correct.
Pepper also addressed Mr and Mrs Js concerns that the interest only concession should 
have been to cover November 2020 to January 2021 payments. It said, in the call when that 
was arranged, it told Mr and Mrs J it would be backdating the arrangement to October 2020. 
So, it concluded that the arrangement was for October 2020, November 2020 and  
December 2020.
With regard to when each payment is due, Pepper confirmed that each months payment 
was due at the end of that month and could be paid any time before or on the date it 
becomes due. But if it is paid after the date its due it would be considered late and would 
affect their credit files. It apologised if it hadnt made that clear in past conversations. Pepper 
also said it had assisted Mr and Mrs J, both by agreeing to covid related payment deferrals 
and arranging a period of interest only payment. But it noted that, it hadnt offered them a 
review of their income and expenditure or signposted them to free organisations that may be 
able to help with financial difficulty. And it acknowledged that, had it reviewed Mr and Mrs Js 
concerns more thoroughly that may have resulted in a swifter conclusion.
Pepper partially upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint and offered them £200 to compensate 
them. Peppers internal notes indicate that it wrote to credit reference agencies on              
23 April 2021 requesting Mr and Mrs Js credit files show their mortgage payments were up 
to date from October 2020 onwards. That also addressed the issue of the credit reference 
agency marker for January 2021 where Mr and Mrs J had made an interest only payment 
rather than the full capital interest payment which had become due.
Dissatisfied with Peppers response, Mr and Mrs J asked us to look into their complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. She said there were some failings in 
Peppers dealings with Mr and Mrs J  along similar lines to those acknowledged in Peppers 
final response letters  but thought the compensation offered for those failings was sufficient. 
She also said she thinks Pepper reported the status of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage correctly in 
respect of December 2020s payment. So, she didnt think it would be fair to ask Pepper to 
pay the difference in cost between its variable interest rate and the one Mr and Mrs J 
remortgaged to in October 2021. She said she didnt think Pepper was responsible for       
Mr and Mrs J not being able to remortgage sooner.
Mr and Mrs J responded saying theyd never had problems remortgaging before and the 
delay before Peppers incorrect reporting to credit reference agencies was solely due to covid limitations. They say they were incorrectly informed by Pepper and because of the 
subsequent delays they paid more than they should have.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree so their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Js complaint Ive thought about whether Pepper fairly added the late 
payment markers to Mr and Mrs Js credit files and, if not, should it have arranged to have 
the markers removed more quickly. Ive also thought about the other aspects of Peppers 
dealings with Mr and Mrs J at the time period in question and whether the amount Pepper 
has offered is fair in relation to those.
Peppers reporting to credit reference agencies
Mr and Mrs J say they were misinformed by Pepper about the months covered by the 
interest only concession and the when their payments were due. Pepper has provided call 
recordings from that time. Ive considered that evidence carefully.
On 19 October 2020 Mr and Mrs J called Pepper to pay the balance of the payment due on 
30 September 2020. Pepper told them during that call if there is more than one months 
payment outstanding, it will be reported to credit reference agencies. They were told the 
payment would be due at the end of the month and that, if it wasnt paid it will be reported. 
Pepper clarified that by saying if you didnt make the payment by 31 October youd go into 
November with one months arrears so your credit file could be updated at that time.
Mr and Mrs J spoke to Pepper on 26 November 2020. During that call Pepper took details of 
Mr and Mrs Js income and expenditure. Pepper said it could consider a reduced or nil 
payment arrangement but understood Mr and Mrs J didnt want their credit files affected so 
said a temporary switch to interest only may help them. Pepper explained that the last 
payment fell due on 31 October 2020, Mr and Mrs J said they were told they had until the 
end of November 2020. Pepper didnt confirm or deny that but said the interest only payment 
could be backdated to cover the payment due on 31 October 2020. 
Pepper said the interest only arrangement wouldnt affect the credit file. I think Mr and Mrs J 
may have understood that to mean Octobers payment would not show as arrears. Octobers 
payment did cause Mr and Mrs Js account to show as being in arrears for November 2020. 
But Pepper subsequently agreed to remove that marker. I think it did so because of the slight 
ambiguity during the call, despite what I would consider to be a clear message during the   
19 October call  that payment had to be made by 31 October 2020.
Mr and Mrs J called on 27 November 2020 to make the interest only payment but the 
payment wouldnt go through. So, Pepper suggested they make a bank transfer. Peppers 
transaction list shows that payment was made to the mortgage account on                          
30 November 2020 and a call recording from that day confirms that. Pepper confirmed that 
Mr and Mrs Js credit files wouldnt be impacted in respect of Octobers payment, but 
reminded them that Novembers payment was due in a few days. But Peppers transaction 
statement shows that the payment due on 30 November wasnt actually paid until               
29 December 2020. So, I think the arrears marker showing for December 2020  in respect 
of the payment due on 30 November 2020  was correct.Pepper arranged to remove the arrears marker for December as part of its resolution to the 
complaint it addressed in its final response letter of 22 April 2021. But I dont think it needed 
to. A credit report should be an accurate reflection of payment history. As Ive explained 
above, specifically in relation to the payment due on 30 November 2020, I think the reporting 
was accurate. And I dont think Mr and Mrs J were misadvised about when the payment was 
due.
That means I dont think Mr and Mrs J were unfairly delayed by Pepper with their wishes to 
remortgage. Instead, I think Pepper accelerated the process of remortgageing by removing 
the credit file marker when it neednt have done.
The months in which the interest only concession applied
Mr and Mrs J say they were led to believe the interest only concession covered      
November 2020, December 2020 and January 2021, and that led them to pay interest only 
in January 2021 when a full capital and interest payment was due.
From the calls outlined above, I think it was clear that the interest only arrangement was for 
three months and that it was backdated to cover the payment due at the end of          
October 2020. I understand that the discussion to put the arrangement in place happened in 
November 2020. But Pepper clearly said it would be backdated to cover Octobers payment. 
And it sent Mr and Mrs J a letter  dated 23 December 2020  confirming the arrangement 
and that its end date was 31 December 2020. So, I dont think Pepper made an error in that 
regard.
Time taken to register and resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint 
Pepper acknowledged Mr and Mrs J raised their dissatisfaction on 16 December 2020 and it 
wasnt handled as a complaint until they raised it again on 19 January 2021. And it 
acknowledged that information it gave to Mr and Mrs J was incorrect with regard to the date 
credit reference agencies were instructed to remove the late payment marker for    
November 2020. So, it offered to pay them £100 to compensate them for those errors.
Mr and Mrs Js main complaint was resolved following the removal of the late payment 
marker from their credit file after Peppers final response letter of 22 April 2021. I understand 
that would have seemed to Mr and Mrs J like a long time to wait, given that they were 
experiencing financial difficulty and wanted to remortgage to achieve a lower monthly 
mortgage payment. But, as I dont think Pepper needed to remove the late payment marker 
for December 2020, I dont think the negative impact of its handling of the complaint is 
substantial. So, I think the amount it awarded  £100  in respect of the initial delay in setting 
up the complaint and incorrect date given for the credit file correction was reasonable.
The support given when Mr and Mrs J were in financial difficulty
During the call of 6 October 2020, I think Pepper gave clear information about the payment 
due. But Mr and Mrs J did say they were struggling to make payments. So, I think Pepper 
could have started discussions about helping them then. I think there were subsequent calls 
where help could have been discussed.
On 26 November 2020 Pepper had a meaningful conversation with Mr and Mrs J about their 
financial circumstances. Pepper understood Mr and Mrs J didnt want their credit report 
affected and said that limited the options available. So, it offered an interest only 
arrangement for three months. Mr and Mrs J seemed to be pleased with that during the call 
and I think it was a reasonable offer from Pepper in the circumstances because it made the 
payments more affordable and didnt affect their credit files.  In its final response letter dated 22 April 2022, Pepper awarded a further £200 because it 
hadnt offered Mr and Mrs J a review of their income and expenditure or signposted them to 
free organisations that may have been able to help with their financial difficulty before 
November 2020. I think that offer was reasonable in the circumstances. I say that because 
when it set up the interest only arrangement in November 2020, Pepper did backdate it to 
cover Octobers payment and it removed the late payment marker for November, thereby 
reversing the effect of not offering help sooner.
Summary
I understand Mr and Mrs J went through a difficult time when their income dropped as a 
result of the covid pandemic. But I think Pepper helped them by removing the late payment 
marker for December 2020 when it didnt need to and wasnt at fault for it being added.
Putting things right
I agree that Pepper did make other errors  as outlined above  but I think the offers it has 
made to compensate them are reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Pepper Money Limited (trading as Pepper Money) has already offered to pay £300 to settle 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint and I think that offer is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that Pepper Money Limited should pay Mr and Mrs J £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman