DRN-4427236
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her and was 
rude and lacked compassion when she contacted it about her difficult circumstances.
What happened
Mrs S was provided with a Sainsburys Bank credit card in May 2019. She says that when 
she applied for the credit card, she already had around £6,000 of credit card debt and was 
only earning around £500 to £700 a month. Mrs S says that she struggled during the 
pandemic as her husband was diagnosed with serious health conditions which meant he 
could no longer work. She tried to discuss the issues with Sainsburys Bank, but says it was 
hard to make contact given her work hours and when she did make contact, Sainsburys 
Bank lacked compassion for her situation.  
Sainsburys Bank says that as part of the application process a credit search was performed. 
It said this reported no late or missed payments, no defaults or county court judgements in 
Mrs Ss name. It said that based on its check Mrs S met its lending criteria. It said the credit 
limit increases were only offered after affordability assessments were carried out assessing 
how the credit card account had been managed. It confirmed that all charges had been 
correctly applied in line with the account terms and conditions. 
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint but following receipt of further information she 
issued a second view not upholding the complaint. She said that based on Mrs Ss declared 
monthly income her credit commitments and mortgage took a significant portion of her 
income and because of this she thought Sainsburys Bank should have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mrs S financial circumstances before lending. But she said based on the 
information she had received she didnt have enough to be persuaded that Sainsburys Bank 
had made an unfair lending decision. Regarding the credit limit increase in December 2019, 
our investigator again said that insufficient information had been provided to determine that 
Sainsburys Bank had made an unfair lending decision. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs S contacted Sainsburys Bank about her situation and she 
thought Sainsburys Bank had tried to support Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had provided evidence of her 
income during the period and that other financial institutions had provided assistance, but 
Sainsburys Bank had been rude and showed no compassion. She said she had nothing left 
to pay Sainsburys Bank and that this issue was causing her stress at an already difficult 
time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Mrs S applied for a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank in May 2019. I have looked at 
the information Mrs S provided as part of her application, and this recorded her annual 
income as £18,000 with other household income of £80,000. The monthly mortgage 
repayments were noted as £1,900. Sainsburys Bank undertook a credit check and said that 
Mrs S had no adverse information recorded and total unsecured debt of £5,750.
Mrs S was required to provide accurate information as part of her application, but 
Sainsburys Bank was also required to ensure its checks were proportionate. In this case 
Mrs S declared an annual income of £18,000 which would result in a net monthly income of 
around £1,300. Mrs S recorded additional household income and it can be the case that 
couples will combine income and expenses and it can, in certain circumstances, be 
reasonable to consider all household income and expenses. But in this case as I do not have 
details of the other financial and / or other commitments that needed to be paid from the 
household income, and as the credit card was applied for in Mrs Ss sole name, I find it 
reasonable that the assessment should focus on her income. 
While I do not find that the credit check results raised concerns that Mrs S might be 
struggling financially at the time of application, as the information gathered suggested that 
Mrs S would be using a substantial amount of her declared income to repay her existing 
debts and mortgage, I think it would have been proportionate for Sainsburys Bank to carry 
out further checks to ensure it had a clear understanding of Mrs Ss financial circumstances.
Mrs S has said that at the time of the application she was earning £500 to £700 a month. 
She has provided copies of payslips from June and August 2019 and her year end certificate 
for 2019/2020. This suggests a monthly income of around £700. However, I havent been 
provided details of Mrs Ss income in the months leading up to the application and she hasnt 
been able to provide copies of her bank statements. Therefore I cannot say for certain what 
would have been identified had further questions regarding Mrs Ss income been asked at 
the time.  
Mrs S has said that her husband paid for the mortgage, and she paid towards other costs 
and I find it reasonable that had further questions been asked she would have provided this 
information. Taking into account the amount Mrs S would have needed to pay towards her 
existing debt plus the additional amount payable in the new lending gave monthly credit 
commitments of around £435. As she wasnt paying for the mortgage and there was another 
household income I do not find that I have enough to say that had further questions been 
asked, these would have shown the lending to have been irresponsible. 
Mrs S maintained her monthly repayments on her credit card and while I note her comments 
that she was only making the minimum repayments, having looked at how she was 
managing her account, I do not find that this raises any concerns. Based on this I do not find 
that I have enough to say that the increase in the credit limit to £3,800 in December 2019 
should be consider unfair lending.Mrs S has been experiencing a very difficult time and I do not underestimate the strain this 
issue, on top of everything else she is dealing with, is causing her. But I have to consider 
that the credit card account is in her name and that Sainsburys Bank has put in place 
payment arrangements and other breaks to try to assist Mrs S. I understand Mrs S doesnt 
think that Sainsburys Bank has done enough to help her but, in this case, I do not find I can 
say it hasnt tried to provide support. Going forward, we would expect Sainsburys Bank to 
work with Mrs S and to treat her positively and sympathetically in regard to the outstanding 
balance on her account. 
I know Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision and I am sorry to hear of the extremely 
difficult time she is experiencing but I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman