DRN-2804599
The complaint
Miss B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) didnt help 
her after she made a claim on her car insurance.
Watford uses a third party company to manage its claims. All of Miss Bs communications 
have been with this claims handling agent. For simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Watford in my 
decision and any reference to Watford includes its claims handling agent.
What happened
Miss B took out a car insurance policy with Watford in June 2019 through an insurance 
broker. She was involved in a car accident in December 2019 when another driver forced 
her to swerve into two parked cars, damaging both cars as well as her own. Unfortunately, 
the other driver didnt stop at the scene. Miss B reported the accident to her insurer. 
Watford told Miss B that, based on her account, she would be held at fault for the accident. It 
also told her that the damage to her car would likely make it a total loss and  because her 
policy excess was greater than the value of her car  it wasnt economical for her to claim for 
her car. Watford said it would deal with any third party claim received for the damage to the 
other two cars.
Miss B is unhappy that Watford recorded her accident as a fault against her when she felt 
she wasnt fully responsible, and that her comprehensive cover only covered damage to the 
other cars (so was, in effect, third party cover only). She is also unhappy she had to continue 
paying her premiums after the accident, and that Watford told her she couldnt bring a 
personal injury claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Watford correctly recorded the insurance claim as a fault claim against Miss B, calculated 
the loss for Miss Bs car correctly, and was right to say Miss B couldnt make a personal 
injury claim under the policy terms. In other words, our investigator was satisfied that 
Watford applied Miss Bs policy terms fairly.
Watford accepted our investigators recommendation. Miss B didnt, so the case was passed 
to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 March 2021. I said:
First, Miss B has a separate complaint with this service against the broker who sold her the 
insurance policy. Our investigator is trying to contact Miss B to discuss that complaint, so Im 
not going to cover that here. My decision only relates to the complaint against Watford.
Second, from listening to the calls its clear that Miss B was very shaken by the accident and 
I understand it affected her quite badly. Im really sorry to hear this and I hope shes doing 
ok. Id be very grateful if shed get in touch with our investigator and reply to this decision.
Turning to Miss Bs complaint, there are four issues here: liability for the accident; the claim 
for damage to Miss Bs car; her premiums; and medical expenses. Ive considered each 
below.
Liability
Ive listened to Miss Bs description of the accident in her phone calls with Watford. In 
summary, another vehicle came out of a side road in front of her. She tried to avoid this 
vehicle, skidded, and crashed into a parked car (which was forced into a second parked car). 
The other driver didnt stop at the accident and Watford hasnt been able to trace him/her.  
Miss B accepts that she was partly to blame for the accident but holds the other driver 
equally responsible. She told Watford: I do take blame. I dont take full blame, as he 
shouldnt have come out of that junction knowing I was that close. Unfortunately, the only 
witness to the accident didnt respond to Watfords attempts to contact him. And there was 
no CCTV or dashcam footage to help identify the other driver.
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Bs policy, Watford can take over, conduct or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, paragraph 6). This is common in car insurance 
policies and Watford doesnt need Miss B to agree this. This also means Watford can make 
a decision Miss B doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and 
reasonable.
Watford recorded the claim as a fault against Miss B. This is because a claim is considered 
fault when the policyholders insurer doesnt recover its full costs from a third party. Miss B 
hit two parked cars and accepted that she was partially at fault for this. Watford accepted 
liability for the damage to those cars and settled the claims from the third party insurers. 
Having considered all the evidence about the accident, I cant say that Watfords decision to 
accept fault was unfair.
Given the circumstances, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Watford to hold Miss B 
liable for the accident. This means its fair that the claim is recorded as a fault claim against 
her.
Claim for damage to Miss Bs car
Miss Bs policy schedule shows her excess was made of up two separate amounts:
a comprehensive cover excess of £950; and
an Additional accidental & malicious damage excess amounts for young or 
inexperienced drivers of £200, based on Miss Bs age.
That means Miss Bs total excess was £1,150. The estimated value of her car, quoted on her 
policy schedule, was £1,100. Watford concluded that the excess  the amount Miss B would 
pay for any damage claim  was greater than the value of her car. Watfords internal notes 
confirm the advice given to Miss B: advised that due to Vehicle damage and excess it would 
not be worth claiming, advised we would deal with TP damage.
However, Im not sure that was fair. The policy schedule says £1,100 was the cars 
estimated value. Section 1 of Miss Bs policy booklet covers Loss of or damage to Your 
Car. This says: The most We will pay is the Market Value of Your Car and attached 
Accessories at the time of the loss or damage. Market value is defined as 
The retail market value based on that listed in the current Glasses [sic] Guide for 
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition. Glasses Guide is a 
motor trade publication recognised and used extensively throughout the motor 
vehicle industry to value new/used vehicles. Where Glasses Guide is not available or 
there is a dispute over valuation with Your insurer, We will consider alternative 
equivalent motor trade publications such as CAP (CAP Motor Research Ltd) or 
Parkers Guide. 
Put another way, if the policy schedule had quoted an estimated value of, say, £3,000, 
Watford wouldnt have automatically based its pay-out on that amount. It would have got a 
more precise market value using the Glasss trade guide.
The Glasss guide valuation for a car of the same make, model, and approximate mileage as 
Miss Bs at the time of the accident is £1,365. (We dont have an exact mileage at the time of 
the accident, so weve based our valuation on the last recorded mileage. Weve taken this 
from the cars MOT in March 2019.) That means the car might have been worth more than 
Miss Bs excess. So I dont think Watford should have advised Miss B not to make a claim.
Im conscious that Miss Bs premiums were approximately £200 per month and, according to 
Watford, she still had seven monthly payments to make. Section 6 of the General 
Conditions in Miss Bs policy booklet (Claims Procedure) says: In the event of a claim 
covered by this Policy You must still pay the premium. We reserve the right to deduct any 
outstanding premiums from the claim payment, if the claim is for loss of or damage to Your 
Car, which is covered by this Policy."
Rather than make a small payment to Miss B to settle the claim for her car, Watford could 
have set this off against her remaining premiums. However, I understand that Miss B 
continued to pay her monthly premium to the end of the policy term (see Premiums below), 
so this option is no longer available.
Overall, I dont think Watford should have advised Miss B not to make a claim on her own 
car. Its possible that, if shed made a claim, she would either have received a small pay-out 
or her remaining premiums would have been reduced. 
Id normally ask Watford to review the advice it gave Miss B, invite her to submit a claim, and 
settle the claim in line with the policy terms. However, I dont think thats practical in this 
case. The accident was 15 months ago, and my understanding is that Miss B no longer has 
the car. Instead, Ive thought about what might have happened if Miss B had made a claim 
for the damage to her car.
Based on the policy terms, Watford would have used the Glasss trade guide to value Miss 
Bs car at £1,3651 and paid Miss B the difference between this and her £1,150 excess 
(£215).
But thats not the end of the story. In normal circumstances, Watford would have kept the 
car. (Section 1 of the policy booklet: We will retain the right to the salvage of Your Car 
following a total loss for disposal in accordance with the Association of British Insurers code 
of practice.) At this stage, I dont know what happened to the car and our investigator has 
been unable to contact Miss B to find out. If Miss B sold it for salvage, Watford would be able 
to make a deduction for this. If she sold it for £215 or more, she hasnt lost out.
At this stage, I cant say that Watfords advice has left Miss B financially worse off. So I dont 
currently intend to require Watford to do anything differently about this part of Miss Bs 
1 Ive assumed Miss Bs car was in normal condition. A car in poor condition would have been worth 
less.complaint. Ill review this if Miss B provides more information about what happened to the car 
in response to this provisional decision.
Premiums
Miss B is unhappy that she had to continue paying her insurance premiums after her car was 
declared a total loss. As Ive said, Section 6 of the General Conditions in Miss Bs policy 
booklet says: In the event of a claim covered by this Policy You must still pay the premium." 
This is right. Miss Bs car insurance was a yearly contract beginning in June 2019. She 
chose to pay monthly by direct debit. (Im aware Miss Bs policy schedule says she paid a 
single premium, but evidence from both parties shows she paid monthly.) However, her 
premium is still paid up front by a creditor who Miss B pays back in instalments, plus interest.
Watford accepted liability for the damage to the two parked cars and had to settle these 
claims. That means Miss B has effectively 'used' her policy, so she must pay the full 
premium. Miss B was paying the yearly premium by monthly instalments, so she still had to 
pay the outstanding instalments.
Im satisfied this is reasonable and Watford applied the policy term fairly.
Medical expenses
Watford told Miss B that she wasnt entitled to personal injury cover because the accident 
was her fault. It told us: if [Miss B] was the Non Fault party and wanted to pursue a personal 
injury claim we would have aided her in pursuing a personal injury claim against the third 
party insurer who would have been the Fault party. It later told us that Miss B had legal 
cover with a third party insurer. 
Thats all a bit confusing and I think Watford could have explained this better. But in the end, 
Im satisfied that the Watford policy doesnt include personal injury cover for the policyholder.
However, Miss Bs policy does provide cover for medical expenses. Section 3 of the policy 
booklet says: If You, Your driver or any of Your passengers are injured in an incident 
involving Your Car, We will pay medical expenses of up to £100 for each insured person. 
This is confirmed on the policy schedule. 
During her phone call with Watford on 17 December, Miss B explained that she had severe 
bruising, had been given codeine at the hospital, and I had to get paracetamol and 
[inaudible]. Ive been signed off for three weeks as well. Miss Bs policy looks like it covers 
her for any prescription or over-the-counter medication up to £100. There are no exclusions 
in the policy, so I dont understand why Watford didnt tell Miss B she was eligible for this.
Our investigator has tried to contact Miss B to ask for more details about her medical 
expenses but hasnt been able to speak to her. But based on her phone call to Watford, I 
think its likely Miss B had to pay for both prescription and over-the-counter medication. I 
think Watford should refund this. 
Given the time thats passed since the accident and Miss B didnt know Watford would 
refund her, I dont think its reasonable to ask Miss B to provide evidence of these expenses. 
Miss B was signed off work for three weeks so its likely she needed medication throughout 
this period. I think Watford should pay Miss B £100 to cover her medical expenses.
Finally, I think Watford has caused Miss B some distress and inconvenience by failing to 
give appropriate advice about her claim and what her policy covered. Having considered the level of award given by this service in similar circumstances, I think Watford should pay Miss 
B £100 to compensate her for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss B accepted my findings about her medical expenses and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. She told us that she hadnt sold her damaged car, which is currently 
registered as off the road (SORN). She said it was too expensive to repair the car or have it 
removed. She bought another car which needed some repair work and shes used some 
parts from her old car to do this. She asked that I award her an additional £215 to reflect the 
difference between the trade guide valuation for her old car at the time of her accident and 
her policy excess.
Watford disagreed with parts of my provisional decision. As a general point, it said my 
decision should be described as upheld in part rather than upheld. It agreed with my 
findings on liability and premiums but disagreed with me about its initial advice to Miss B 
about her claim, my award for distress, and my award for medical expenses.
As it had done in its final response letter to Miss B, Watford argued that its advice to Miss B 
had been correct. It said that the settlement is calculated by deducting the excess and any 
outstanding premiums from the pre-accident value of the vehicle. Using my valuation of 
£1,365, it said Miss B would still have owed £1,185 in premiums. It concluded:
Therefore, your resolution that states Miss [B] would have received a small payout 
or her premiums reduced is incorrect as Miss [B] would have owed £1185.00 to us if 
she had of pursued a claim which is the reason we advised it to be uneconomical for 
her to continue and pursue a claim on her policy.
For the same reason, Watford disagrees with my decision to award £100 for any distress or 
inconvenience caused to her by this advice.
Watford accepted my finding that the policy term about medical expenses wasnt clear 
because it didnt define what was covered by this. It agreed that, given this lack of clarity, it 
was reasonable to include painkillers within this term. However, it thinks my award of £100 is 
too high. Given the standard UK prescription charge and typical cost of over-the-counter 
painkillers, Watford believes £20 would be a more reasonable award. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept Watfords argument that its advice to Miss B was appropriate. Miss B was 
insured to July 2020. Her accident was in December 2019. Her premium history shows she 
paid her premiums in January and February 2020. In or around March 2020, Miss B bought 
a new car and put this onto her Watford policy. The premium history shows Watford made a 
mid-term adjustment (an increase) to Miss Bs premiums in March 2020 to reflect the 
change of vehicle. Miss B continued to pay her monthly premiums until July 2020, when the 
policy expired. 
So the outstanding premiums shouldnt have been a factor in the advice to Miss B because, 
under the policy terms, they were always payable and Miss B continued to pay them. Put 
another way, Miss B got no benefit from her comprehensive insurance even though the value of her car was greater than her policy excess.
Also, Miss Bs premium for the year was approximately £2,600. Watfords argument would 
mean that on day one of cover, Miss Bs car would need to be worth more than £3,750 
(premium plus excess) before it would pay out on a claim. I dont think thats what her policy 
says at all. Where a claim is made, the settlement is the market value of the car less the 
excess, not market value less excess and premium. So Miss B should have been entitled to 
a settlement pay-out of £215, reflecting the difference between the trade valuation of £1,365 
and her policy excess of £1,150.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I also need to consider what happened to the 
damaged car. Miss B confirmed that she still has it and has used some parts from it to repair 
her new car. In effect, Miss B has retained her car for salvage. In these circumstances, it 
would be reasonable for Watford to make a deduction from the trade valuation to reach a fair 
settlement amount.
Its difficult for me to know what this deduction would have been, and Watford didnt 
comment on this in its response. If it had been more than £215, Watford wouldnt have had 
to pay anything to Miss B. This is for the same reason I explained in my provisional decision 
when I asked if shed sold the car. That is, the value Miss B gained from the salvage of her 
car  basically, the value of the parts she took from it to repair her new car  means she isnt 
any worse off financially despite Watfords bad advice.
Ive looked at a couple of online quotes to get an idea of the scrap value of Miss Bs car. 
Based on these, I think its probable that any salvage deduction made by Watford would 
have been greater than £215. For that reason, Im not going to require Watford to make a 
settlement award for Miss Bs car.
I understand Watfords point about my award for medical expenses. However, I considered 
this carefully when making my provisional decision. I dont think Watfords new offer of £20 
would reasonably cover prescription and over-the-counter medication for three weeks. And 
given how long has passed since the accident, I dont think its fair to ask Miss B to prove 
how much she actually spent on painkillers. The policy covered Miss B up to £100. I think 
Watford should pay this.
Finally, Watford hasnt provided any evidence that changes my mind about my award to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss B. It should pay her £100 for failing to 
give appropriate advice about her claim and what her policy covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to:
pay Miss B £100 to cover her medical expenses; and
pay Miss B £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused by failing to give her 
appropriate advice about her rights under the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman