DRN-4109978
The complaint
Mr H complains that London & Colonial Services Ltd (L&C) allowed his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) to be invested in an investment which caused him to lose a 
significant amount of money. Mr H wants L&C to pay him compensation for the loss.
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options) has been dealing with the complaint on 
behalf of L&C. Options is part of the same group of companies as L&C. Throughout this 
decision Ive referred to the business as L&C.
What happened
Mr H had a defined benefit pension from a former employer. He said a financial adviser 
visited him at home and said he could help Mr H get a better investment on his pension 
now that he had left his employer. Mr H said:
[The adviser] explained about the need for sustainable energy and that a new form 
of sustainable energy could be sourced from Bio plants that were grown in 
Cambodia. 
Mr H signed a SIPP application form on 20 September 2011 to transfer his pension into a 
SIPP with L&C and to invest the funds inside the SIPP in an Agroforestry Lease offered by 
Sustainable Agroenergy PLC (SA). The investment involved leasing plots of land in 
Cambodia from SA and letting them to a Cambodian company connected to SA. According 
to agreements Mr H signed, the plots were planted with jatropha trees. And he was to 
receive 50% of the revenue the Cambodian company would generate by harvesting seeds 
from the trees on his plots to make bio-fuel.
Mr Hs SIPP application form listed his financial advisers as RealSIPP LLP (RealSIPP) and 
CIB Life & Pensions Ltd (CIB). It provided FSA authorisation numbers for both and contact 
details for RealSIPP. RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB from 6 April 2010 to 
4 June 2015. CIB was an authorised firm until 4 June 2015. The form didnt say whether 
Mr H received financial advice from the advisers. Boxes were ticked on the form to say Mr H 
wanted to manage the fund himself and wanted L&C to act on instructions from his financial 
adviser.
L&C acknowledged the SIPP application in letters dated 23 September 2011. On the same 
day L&C wrote to Mr Hs pension provider asking it to transfer Mr Hs pension entitlement to 
L&C. The cash value of Mr Hs pension entitlement was about £39,000. That amount was 
transferred on 24 October 2011. The following day L&C sent about £35,000 to SA to 
purchase an agroforestry lease for Mr Hs SIPP.
In November 2011 the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) opened a criminal investigation into SA. 
In February 2012 a court froze SAs assets. And in March 2012 SA entered receivership. 
The SFO later brought charges and three men were found guilty and given prison 
sentences. The SFO investigation had focused on the sale and promotion of SAs products, 
including the one Mr H invested in. The SFO found that investors had been deliberately 
misled about the nature of the investment and a person responsible for sales had obtained 
commission rates of 65% of the amounts invested. It also noted that SA was effectively 
insolvent by mid-2011.
In April 2012 the administrator for SA (Chantrey Vellacott DFK) wrote to investors saying SA 
had no title to the land being invested in and no way its business model could work, and 
most of the land was unsuitable for jatropha trees. The administrator said investors had been 
promised returns of 5% in the first year, 12% in the second year, and 20% in the third and 
subsequent years.
From 2012 L&C produced annual statements which showed Mr Hs investment in SA was 
valued at nil. L&C continued to take its annual fee from the cash in Mr Hs account until 2015 
when it wrote to him saying it couldnt collect its fee and Mr H couldnt take any benefits from 
the SIPP because the SIPP had insufficient cash and the investment was currently illiquid. 
L&C said that it had never been involved with, nor  in any way responsible for the choice 
of the investment or the difficulties arising in connection with it, but that L&C still needed its 
fee for operating the SIPP. L&C said it would accrue the fees due to it and to Mr Hs financial 
adviser and it would deduct the fees from Mr Hs SIPP when the investment became liquid 
enough.
Mr H later told us the SFO informed him of the investigation into SA and L&C sent him six-
monthly SIPP statements even after I had no investment. He said he contacted L&C to ask 
it to stop charging fees and pay him the balance of the cash in his SIPP account, which he 
said was about £2,500. He said L&C refused to stop taking fees because the SIPP was still 
active and told Mr H he could use the account to make further investments but he couldnt 
close it.
Mr H later told us:
I believed at the time London and Colonial were only the receiver of the money 
acting like a bank I did not understand they had any obligation regarding the 
investment and believed initially when I was first informed of the investigation that the 
only ones accountable where the individuals who had set up Sustainable Agroenergy 
and they were now under investigation, and facing criminal charges based on the 
information I was sent at the time from the Serious Crime Agency [sic] and the 
updates on their platform. I only sought legal advice at a later stage when I saw 
similar stories of other people who had lost their investment on social media and after 
the investigation completed and the confiscation order in 2016 .
Mr H further said:
I contacted a solicitor after the legal case had been settled as it was at this point it 
was confirmed the investment did not exist, I was initial contacted on several 
occasions by Chantler Vellacott [sic] who was aware of the investigation sometime 
during late 2014-2015 however they required an upfront fee which I was not able to 
afford and therefore never contacted them. I then became aware of solicitors who 
would take on a case based on no win no fee and I believe this is when I had an 
initial conversation with a solicitor at the end of 2015 early 2016, however I dont 
recall what action the solicitor did on my behalf, nor do I have any correspondence. 
At the time there was a lot of social media posts about claiming payment protection 
where it had been mis-sold and I became aware later in the year that individuals 
could complain directly with the financial ombudsman and that it may be possible to 
bring a complaint against the financial adviser who was listed on the London and 
Colonial statements as Real Sipp LLP. I logged a complaint directly with the financial 
ombudsman after sending letters of complaint to Real Sipp without any response, I 
was advised by the financial ombudsman to make take [sic] the complaint directly to the pension ombudsman which I did and the complaint file was transferred over the 
pension ombudsman. I was eventually awarded part of my investment through the 
compensation scheme. The complaint was against Agro Energy and the Financial 
adviser Real Sipp LLP.
On 17 January 2016 Mr H signed a form for a representative to investigate advice hed 
received to transfer his pension and invest in SA. The representative asked L&C for some 
information which L&C provided.
On 5 July 2016 L&C wrote to M H saying:
[SA] has unfortunately encountered serious trading difficulties. In the absence of 
any recognised market there appears to be no reference from which to establish a 
value or even any market or means to achieve a sale.
L&C said it was terminating Mr Hs SIPP agreement because the SIPP had very little cash 
and the SA investment had no realistic prospect of being sold.
Mr H said the SFO made him aware of the outcome of a confiscation order in August 2016 
which he said was when he knew no monies would be payable. He said:
I then followed the governments [sic] online advise, making a formal complaint 
[about] the financial adviser Real Sipp waiting the required time for a response, which 
was never received then raising it with the financial ombudsman, once I receive the 
advice from the financial [ombudsman] to contact the pensions ombudsman I did.
On 28 February 2018 Mr H submitted a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) about the actions of CIB (the principal firm for which Real SIPP had been 
an appointed representative). FSCS upheld his claim on 8 August 2018 and paid him 
compensation up to the applicable limit. FSCS later reassigned rights back to Mr H to pursue 
compensation from L&C.
Mr Hs complaint about L&C
Mr H said he became aware in 2019 that he could make a complaint against L&C after he 
made an enquiry to a new representative after seeing a post on social media about 
complaints to L&C about SIPPs. He said he contacted the new representative in December 
2019 and Up until this point I believed I had done all I could in trying to get some of the 
money back via the FSCS.
On 24 January 2020 Mr H filled out a Claimant fact find document for the new 
representative. The representative wrote a complaint to L&C on Mr Hs behalf dated 30 
October 2020. L&C said it received the complaint on 9 November 2020. In summary the 
complaint said L&C had a duty to protect its customers which it had not met by facilitating 
Mr Hs investment in a product that was illiquid, high-risk and complex. The complaint made 
reference to the Principles for Businesses from the FCA Handbook. It said that by not 
identifying and acting on the risk of detriment to Mr H, L&C had failed to follow Principles 2, 3 
and 6. It also said L&C facilitated a shoe-horning approach by RealSIPP.
Mr H wanted L&C to take ownership of the investment and put him in the position he 
wouldve been in had he not transferred his pension to the SIPP and made the investment. 
And he wanted compensation for the worry and distress he suffered.
L&C said in reply that Mr Hs complaint was out of time according to the rules in the DISP 
section of the FCA Handbook. L&C said Mr H complained more than six years after his SIPP and investment were set up and more than three years after he would have been aware of 
his cause for complaint. L&C said its annual statements from 2012 to 2015 had shown 
Mr Hs investment was valued at nil which had put Mr H on notice to raise any concerns he 
had about financial loss and lack of liquidity in the investment.
Mr H referred his complaint to us in January 2021. In summary his representative said:
L&C hadnt taken into account Mr Hs communication needs and treated him fairly 
and it had failed to act in line with Principles 1, 6 and 7.
L&C didnt put Mr H on notice because it didnt make clear to him at any point that 
he could complain against L&C for his investment loss.
Mr H didnt know he could hold L&C responsible for what happened. If L&C had 
treated Mr H fairly it would have told him he could complain about L&C.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She asked L&C about its relationship with 
Real SIPP, including any checks it did on Real SIPP, and any due diligence it did on the SA 
investment. L&C didnt provide any information in response.
Our investigators view
The investigator concluded that the complaint wasnt out of time. She disagreed with L&C 
that Mr H would or should have been aware of his cause for complaint more than three years 
before he complained. She said Mr Hs complaint was about L&C allowing the investment to 
be held in the SIPP, not the failure of the investment itself. She took the view that a 
consumer could not reasonably be expected to be aware of the due diligence obligations of 
SIPP providers. She said the earliest time Mr H was likely to have been aware of the 
responsibilities of SIPP providers was when he appointed a representative in 2018.
Having taken the view that the complaint was in our jurisdiction, the investigator also said the 
complaint should be upheld because L&C hadnt done enough due diligence on the SA 
investment. She drew negative conclusions from the fact L&C hadnt provided any evidence 
to show what due diligence it carried out. And she said L&C shouldve obtained and 
considered information about the title of the land which it agreed to lease on behalf of Mr H. 
And by not doing so it had caused Mr H a financial loss by allowing an investment it 
shouldnt have allowed. The investigator said Mr H wouldnt have invested in the fraudulent 
scheme if L&C had not allowed it; he would most likely have left his pension where it was. 
The investigator said L&C should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H suffered as a result of making the transfer
2. Take ownership of the SA investment if possible
3. Pay Mr H £500 for distress and inconvenience.
L&C didnt accept the investigators view. It said the complaint was out of time. In summary 
L&C said Mr H wouldve been aware he had cause for complaint more than three years 
before he complained in November 2020. L&C said he would only have appointed a 
representative to help if he was aware of his cause for complaint, so appointing a 
representative in 2018 couldnt have triggered his awareness. L&C said again that its 
statements ought to have made Mr H aware something had gone wrong and that he might 
have a complaint against L&C. And it said Mr H wouldve received other information too 
which shouldve alerted him to his complaint. For example, the administrator for SA wrote to 
investors in April 2012 saying SA had no title to the land being invested in and no way its business model could work, and most of the land was unsuitable for jatropha trees. L&C said 
individuals involved in SA were convicted in December 2014. So by the end of 2014 at the 
latest Mr H ought to have known SA had no title to the land, his investment had no value, 
and the investment was a sham run by fraudsters. L&C said this ought to have alerted him to 
any alleged due diligence failings.
On the merits of the complaint L&Cs representative said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ive summarised some of L&Cs key points below (and have carefully considered the 
response in full):
L&C recalled that a regulated third-party trustee was responsible for investigating title 
and ensuring that this was obtained by the investors. L&C was investigating this and 
would provide any relevant documents (but they havent been provided).
The view that Mr H wouldnt have transferred his pension were it not for L&Cs failure 
wasnt supported by contemporaneous evidence. Other SIPP operators were 
legitimately accepting such investments at the time. Mr H hadnt said he wouldnt 
have made the investment had L&C refused it. And if L&C had refused the 
investment it couldnt have told him why because that would have constituted 
investment advice, so Mr H would still most likely have made the investment.
The investigator diverged without explanation from the decision in the broadly similar 
case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2002] 
EWHC 1229 (Ch).
The investigator didnt explain why the Principles were relied on rather than Adams, 
despite Adams being a better foundation for considering a complaint against a SIPP 
provider.
Mr Hs complaint cant be upheld based on a breach of the Principles because the 
Principles cant give rise to a cause of action at law.
The ambit and application of the Principles, and such duties as may be imposed by 
them, must be construed in light of COBS, L&Cs regulatory permissions, L&Cs 
contractual arrangements, and the general principle in section 1C of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) that consumers should take responsibility 
for their decisions.
Adams [163] made clear standards imposed after the event couldnt be applied.
The FSAs 2009 thematic review has no bearing on the construction of the principles 
because the review cant found a claim for compensation.
L&Cs relationship with Mr H was similar to the relationship between SIPP operator 
and client in Adams where the judge found the limits of the SIPP operators role had 
been clear. And the criticism that the judge did direct to the SIPP operator in Adams 
(for accepting business from an unregulated introducer) didnt apply in Mr Hs case 
because Mr H received advice and explicitly asked L&C to follow his instructions.
L&C wasnt responsible for due diligence outside the limits of its role as defined in its 
contractual documents, limited by what was agreed by the parties and what Mr H 
expected of L&C. Like the SIPP operator in Adams, L&C was clear about the limits of 
its role and put in place appropriate documentation so each party understood those 
limits. Mr H knew L&C would act on an execution only basis and would accept no 
responsibility for the quality of the investment.To do what the investigator expected of L&C to safeguard consumers, L&C would 
have to give investment advice which it wasnt authorised to do.
L&C had never given advice about whether to transfer pension entitlements or make 
an investment, and never been authorised to do so.
The 2012 administrators report wasnt publicly available until after Mr Hs SIPP and 
investment had been set up. Information in it was only relevant if it couldve been 
ascertained with a reasonable level of due diligence at the time of the transaction.
Being allegedly high-risk didnt make SA manifestly unsuitable. Suitability depends 
on the circumstances of the consumer which L&C was under no obligation to 
ascertain.
L&C wasnt obligated to scrutinise an investment to the level of a management 
receiver. A reasonable level of due diligence wouldnt have identified the concerns in 
the administrators report. Specialist knowledge was presumably required to know 
that the land is unsuitable for the growing of Jatropha.
Mr H took advice on the investment. The advice from Real SIPP and Mr Hs claim to 
FSCS show that responsibility for Mr Hs loss doesnt sit with L&C.
Its unfair to regard an execution-only SIPP provider as responsible for a consumers 
investment choice. Its business is structured on the basis that its not investigating 
the quality of the investment or warning or advising clients about whether a SIPP or 
investment is suitable or appropriate for the client. Its fees and charges are based on 
execution-only services. And where a consumer chooses an execution-only service, 
it would be unfair if the SIPP provider couldnt rely on express representations made 
by the consumer when signing the contract documentation.
Our investigator considered the response from L&C and issued a further view. On the time 
limit for making a complaint she said information about his investments failing wouldnt 
indicate to a retail customer like Mr H that he had cause to complain about due diligence by 
his SIPP provider. On the merits of the complaint she said her reasoning had changed but 
she still thought the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged the 2012 administrators 
report post-dated Mr Hs SIPP and investment, but said L&C still would have identified 
concerns with the investment if it had acted fairly and reasonably to Mr H by carrying out 
some checks on the investment. The investigator noted that L&C hadnt provided any 
evidence of due diligence. She mentioned some examples of checks which would, if done, 
have alerted L&C to problems with the SA investment. She said if L&C had done reasonable 
checks its reasonable conclusion wouldve been that the investment shouldnt have been on 
its list of permitted investments for the SIPP Mr H opened. She said that was because:
There was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such high 
returns could be offered.
There was no independent verification that SAs assets were real and secure, or the 
investment operated as claimed.
The land leases, if they existed, mightve been difficult to independently value. And 
there might have been no market for them. So Mr H might not have been able to take 
benefits from his pension, or make changes to it, if he wanted to.
The investment in SA would allow Mr Hs SIPP to become a vehicle for a high-risk 
and speculative investment which wasnt a secure asset and couldve been a scam.The investigator said in these circumstances L&C shouldve given particularly careful 
thought to accepting the investment because it ought to have known there was a high 
chance of consumer detriment. And it wasnt fair to conclude L&C had acted with due skill, 
care and diligence or treated Mr H fairly by accepting the SIPP.
L&C replied saying again the complaint was out of time and that the points it raised on merits 
in its previous response hadnt been addressed.
I note L&C hasnt provided the evidence weve requested as part of our investigation of 
Mr Hs complaint. The evidence Ive considered in reaching this decision includes 
information provided to this service by L&C as part of our investigation of another complaint 
(which was the subject of published decision reference DRN-3587366) in which RealSIPP 
introduced a consumer to L&C. Ive summarised this evidence below.
L&C told us that by applying to be an intermediary, RealSIPP agreed to be bound by the 
terms of The Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts. Ive seen copies of the 
L&C intermediary applications that CIB and RealSIPP signed on 13 September 2010 to 
confirm this, and Ive also seen a copy of the agreement.
L&C also gave us copies of print outs from the FSA register showing that as at November 
2011 RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. And CIBs permissions included 
advising on pension transfers and pension opt outs.
Ive also seen L&Cs Open Pension Brochure which relates to the SIPP Mr H opened. 
Amongst other things, the document says, The L&C Open Pension is not appropriate for 
everybody and it is essential that you obtain financial advice before entering into one. The 
document also says L&C has no responsibility for investment decisions. But that itll ensure 
assets are correctly registered and comply with HMRC rules and regulations.
And Ive seen that archived versions of RealSIPPs website (www.realsipp.com) from 
3 February 2011 and 3 January 2012 said RealSIPP didnt provide advice and instead only 
provided generic information on the considerations and risks associated with property 
investment. It said:
If you are in any doubt over your chosen investment and its suitability to your needs 
and circumstances you should seek professional advice from a suitably qualified 
Independent Financial Adviser.
Because no agreement could be reached on Mr Hs complaint, the complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh and make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision and invited Mr H and L& C to comment on why I thought the 
complaint was not time barred, why I thought Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and how I 
thought L&C should put things right.
Mr H said he agreed with my provisional decision.  L&C said it disagreed with my provisional 
decision and disagreed that the complaint was in time. L&Cs solicitors provided comments 
on behalf of L&C but only in relation to jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction
In summary, L&C said the following in response to my provisional decision:
To be aware (or in a position where they ought to be aware) of their cause for 
complaint, consumers didn't need to fully understand what had happened or what they could do about it; they needed simply to know enough for it to be reasonable to 
investigate further.
The three-year limit was intended to allow investigations to take place and such 
matters to be established. 
Mr H knew much earlier than November 2017 that something had gone wrong.  By 
2014 at the latest he knew that:
otitle had not been obtained in respect of any parcels of land in Cambodia;
ohis investment had no value; and
othe investment itself was a sham and the individuals behind it were convicted 
fraudsters.
It was wrong to say the complainant wouldnt have been aware of his cause for 
complaint (and ought not to have been aware) until he was aware of some very 
specific information about the due diligence obligations of a SIPP provider.
Its beyond comprehension that Mr Hs discussions with a representative in 2016 
wouldnt have included the role of L&C when the representative said it was 
investigating advice Mr H had received.
As I said in my provisional decision, the time limits for bringing a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman service are set out in the DISP section of the FCA Handbook.  At the time Mr H 
referred his complaint to us, DISP 2.8.2R said the following:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response,  or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to 
the Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received
In thinking about when Mr H was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that he 
had cause for complaint, Ive considered how cause for complaint should be interpreted in 
the context of the FCA Handbook.
On interpreting the Handbook generally Singh LJ said the following in The Official Receiver v 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited [EWCA] Civ 367:
44. The FCA Handbook is similar in its drafting style to the Financial Services 
Authority's Client Assets Sourcebook (CASS), which was considered by this Court in Re Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (No 2) [2010] EWCA Civ 917; [2011] 2 
BCLC 184 
46. For present purposes I derive the following propositions from the judgments in Re 
Lehman Brothers:
 (1)  Ultimately it is the actual wording of a provision that must govern any decision as 
to its effect.
(2)  The Handbook should be read as a whole, taking an holistic and iterative 
approach, so that a preliminary view on one provision can be tested by reference to 
the rest of the relevant provisions.
(3)  The provision should be construed in the light of its overall purpose.
(4)  It should be construed on the basis that it is intended to produce a practical and 
commercially sensible result. The rules should be taken to be grounded in reality. 
The court should keep in proportion any drafting infelicities.
And in relation to DISP2.8.2R Nugee LJ said the following:
155.  The resemblance to the ordinary limitation periods for claims in negligence 
where there is also a primary period of 6 years (under s. 2 of the Limitation Act 1980 
("LA 1980")) and a secondary period of 3 years from the date of the claimant's actual 
or constructive knowledge (under s. 14A LA 1980) is striking. We have in fact been 
shown evidence that this is not a coincidence, but even without this material (which is 
of doubtful admissibility) it would have been a reasonable assumption that the 
general structure was modelled on the LA 1980 provisions and was designed to do 
the same thing in general terms.
156.  What then is the purpose of having these two time-limits? The purpose of an 
ordinary limitation period is to prevent stale claims from being litigated, the period of 
6 years being fixed as a generally reasonable period to bring a claim. This explains 
the primary period. But as is well-known that could and did lead to some claimants 
who had suffered latent injury or damage finding that they had lost their rights to sue 
before they even knew, or could reasonably be expected to know, that they had been 
injured or suffered loss. Provision was therefore made, first in ss. 11 and 14 LA 
1980 (applicable to claims for personal injury) and subsequently in s. 14A LA 
1980 (applicable to other claims in negligence), for the claimant to have 3 years from 
his date of knowledge to bring a claim. The purpose of this is obvious. It was to 
remedy the injustice of a claimant's claim being time-barred before they knew, or 
could reasonably be expected to know, that they had a claim. On the other hand the 
selection of a (relatively short) 3 year time period shows that another purpose was to 
provide that once they did, or should, have that knowledge they should get on with 
the claim and bring proceedings reasonably promptly. Precisely the same in my view 
applies to the secondary time-limit in DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). The purpose of the rule is to 
prevent a complainant from losing the right to complain before they are, or ought 
reasonably to be, aware that they have cause for complaint, but to require them to 
pursue the complaint with reasonable promptness once they are, or should be, so 
aware.
The Handbook includes the following rule (GEN 2.2.1R):
Every provision in the Handbook must be interpreted in the light of its purpose.  And guidance in the same section says the purpose of any provision in the Handbook is to 
be gathered from the text of the provision in question and its context amongst other relevant 
provisions (GEN 2.2.2(G)).
The Handbook also says (GEN 2.2.7(R)):
In the Handbook 
(1) an expression in italics which is defined in the Glossary has the meaning given 
there; and
(2) an expression in italics which relates to an expression defined in 
the Glossary must be interpreted accordingly. (GEN2.2.7(R))
The term cause for complaint is not defined in the FCAs glossary. But where DISP says 
the Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if it is out of time, the word complaint is in 
italics. So it is a defined term in the FCA Glossary and must be treated accordingly.
And where that section of the Handbook says it sets out how complaints are to be dealt with 
by respondents, complaint is again in italics. So again it is a defined term.
So although the term cause for complaint isnt in italics in the FCA Handbook, it appears as 
part of the rule that sets out what complaints (in italics) the Ombudsman cannot consider. 
And its reasonable to infer in light of the above rules and guidance on interpreting the 
Handbook that the Handbooks definition of the word complaint was intended to apply to 
that phrase.
For the purposes of DISP the FCA Handbook defines complaint as follows:
Any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
servicewhich:
(a) Alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) Relates to an activity of that respondent, or any other respondent with whom that 
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
And respondent (which is italicised) means a regulated firm covered by the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
So the Glossary definition of complaint requires that the act or omission complained of must 
relate to an activity of that respondent or firm (my emphasis). 
And so the material points required for Mr H to have awareness of a cause for complaint 
include:
awareness of a problem
awareness that the problem had or may have caused him material loss, and
awareness that the problem was or may have been caused by an act or omission of L&C (the respondent in this complaint).
Its therefore my view that its necessary for Mr H to have had an awareness (within the 
meaning of the rule) that related to L&C, not just awareness of a problem that had caused a 
loss. Knowledge of a loss alone is not enough. It cant be assumed that upon obtaining 
knowledge of a loss a consumer had knowledge of its cause. And I dont accept that the 
three year time limit necessarily means knowledge of a loss means the consumer has three 
years to make enquiries to discover all parties who might be responsible, failing which they 
run out of time to make a complaint. As Nugee LJ said in The Official Receiver case the 
purpose of the rule is to prevent a complainant from losing the right to complain before they 
are, or ought reasonably to be, aware that they have cause for complaint, but to require 
them to pursue the complaint with reasonable promptness once they are, or should be, so 
aware.
I dont think Mr H would need to have understood the details of the SIPP providers 
obligations to have been aware (or in a position whereby he ought reasonably to have been 
aware) of his cause for complaint. But I think Mr H wouldve needed to have actual or 
constructive awareness that an act or omission by L&C had a causative role in the loss. And 
I dont think there was any information available to Mr H before February 2016 that ought 
reasonably to have made him aware that he could attribute his problem to acts or omissions 
by L&C.
Its Mr Hs position that he followed the situation with SA: the arrests and criminal case and 
the confiscation case. People connected to SA were convicted in late 2014 and the SFO 
announced at that time that it would seek confiscation orders against them. Confiscation 
orders were made in 2016.
Mr H has said that in 2014-2015 he was approached by Chantler Vellacott who asked for 
money up front. I think Mr H is confusing things here. Chantrey Vellacott was the receiver for 
SA and I am not aware of it suggesting to creditors of SA that they might have claims against 
any third parties such as L&C, or seeking upfront fees for acting in such claims. And there is 
nothing to show that any firm, or any other party seeking upfront fees in 2014-2015, was 
doing so in any way that would have meant Mr H was aware or ought reasonably to have 
been aware that the loss he had suffered could be attributed to some fault on the part of 
L&C.
Mr H has said he became aware of solicitors who would act on a no-win-no-fee basis after 
the legal case had been settled. He said he had an initial conversation with them but 
doesnt now recall what action they took on his behalf. Nor does he have any 
correspondence from them. This initial contact seems to have been in late 2015 or early 
2016 (even though the confiscation case was not concluded until later in 2016). The 
solicitors wrote to L&C in January 2016. They said theyd been instructed to investigate the 
advice Mr H had received to transfer his pension into a SIPP. They asked for information 
from L&C and said nothing that indicated they considered L&C had been or might have been 
at fault or that they were investigating that possibility. They made no mention of L&C having 
any responsibility for Mr Hs loss.
I accept Mr Hs evidence is not clear in all respects but thats not surprising and his 
confusion on some points of detail doesnt fatally undermine his version of events which is 
that he wasnt aware he had a complaint against L&C until 2019. He says until then he 
thought hed done all he could to get his money back by pursuing a claim against the adviser 
to the FSCS.
L&C says its beyond comprehension that in 2016 Mr Hs solicitors wouldnt have made him 
aware of the role L&C had to play. I disagree that its beyond comprehension that the solicitors wouldnt have made Mr H aware of the role L&C had to play in the loss hed 
suffered, or put another way, why L&C might be responsible for Mr Hs loss. The reality of 
situations such as this is that claims professionals dont necessarily advise their clients in a 
reactive way after the clients have sought them out. Rather it is often the case that when 
issues arise which affect groups of consumers some legal firms and claims management 
companies advertise their services to potential clients from amongst those groups, typically 
on a no-win-no-fee basis. And such firms will not necessarily provide holistic advice to their 
clients but rather will have a particular claim they are advising clients to make.
In 2015 and 2016 claims against SIPP operators for due diligence failures were not 
commonplace. On the other hand claims against advisers for mis-selling investments 
were. Such complaints are aimed where the parties likely responsibility is obvious and easy 
to understand and the issues are relatively straightforward. Its entirely plausible that in 2016 
firms of solicitors and claims management companies were advising clients to make such 
claims against advisers and not contemplating or advising on alternative or additional 
potential claims.
Its also the case that Mr H didnt pursue the role of Real SIPP with the solicitors. He said 
that later in the same year he saw social media posts about claims in respect of mis-sold 
payment protection insurance and he became aware that he could, himself, complain direct 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he wrote a letter of complaint to RealSIPP 
and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And certainly the Financial 
Ombudsman Service does make clear that its not necessary to use professional 
representation in complaints against financial firms to this service. The point is Mr H wasnt a 
client of the solicitors for long and it was reasonable for him to decide he didnt need 
professional help to pursue his complaint against the adviser.
What all this means is that when Mr H says he wasnt aware he could make a complaint 
against L&C until 2019 when he saw an online post or advert regarding such claims, despite 
having been in touch with solicitors in 2016 about a claim against his adviser, I consider this 
plausible. Its plausible, and I accept it to be the case, that the solicitors didnt make him 
aware he might have cause for complaint against L&C as well as the adviser. Nor is there 
anything to suggest the solicitors provided information that ought reasonably to have made 
Mr H aware he had cause for complaint against L&C.
Ive considered whether Mr H acted reasonably in his pursuance of compensation for the 
loss he knew hed suffered. And I think he did. He followed the progress of the criminal 
investigation into the individuals responsible for the SA investment  he said he considered 
those individuals responsible for his loss and he thought he might be compensated through 
the court process. When Mr H became aware he could hold the adviser RealSIPP 
responsible for his loss he pursued a claim against RealSIPP (or its principal CIB Life and 
Pensions Limited) which was paid by the FSCS. He did this with the help of the solicitors 
initially and then on his own when he realised he could do so.
Given the problem with the SA investment the obvious people to think had caused the loss 
were the people who ran SA. And then the people who recommended the SA 
investment. Im not aware of anything L&C said or did at the outset of its relationship with 
Mr H that wouldve caused him to think it might be responsible if such a problem occurred.  
Nor am I aware of anything it said or did that would have caused Mr H to think it was 
responsible once the problem had occurred. In fact, in 2015 when L&C wrote to Mr H to say 
his investment was illiquid, L&C said it had never been involved with, nor  in any way 
responsible for the choice of the investment or the difficulties arising in connection with it. In 
the circumstances I consider Mr H was acting reasonably in looking to SA and RealSIPP and 
in not thinking that L&C might also be responsible for his loss, and in not seeking advice about whether he might have cause for complaint against anyone in addition to SA (or those 
connected to it who were prosecuted) and the adviser.
I dont say Mr H was obligated to seek expert advice from, for example, solicitors in relation 
to the loss he suffered but he did use solicitors in 2016. It seems clear they advised him he 
might have cause for complaint about the adviser and that that possibility should be 
investigated. They probably also made him aware that he did indeed have cause for 
complaint against Real SIPP when they had obtained the requested information from L&C. 
Its Mr Hs case that they didnt also make him aware he had cause for complaint against 
L&C. And I accept thats the case. And Mr H isnt to be treated as being aware of things from 
his solicitors that his solicitors didnt make him aware of.
As Ive mentioned, Mr H told us he only became aware he had any basis for complaint about 
L&C after he saw a social media post or advertisement about complaints to L&C regarding 
SIPPs in 2019, after hed concluded his claim against Real SIPP with the FSCS. Again I 
consider this to be plausible and not contradicted by the documentary evidence. I accept this 
is the point at which Mr H became aware for the first time that L&C might be responsible for 
the loss hed suffered. As result of seeing that social media post or advertisement, Mr H 
made an enquiry to a new representative in December 2019. Mr Hs representative made a 
complaint to L&C on 30 October 2020, which L&C received on 9 November 2020.
On balance, I consider this complaint was made within three years of the time Mr H became 
aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of his cause for complaint about L&C. I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Mr H to have carried out more investigations than he did 
to find out who was responsible for his loss and how he could claim redress. Although 
Mr Hs awareness of his cause for complaint about L&C took several years to emerge, he 
was engaged in the matter, took reasonable steps, and didnt simply choose not to pursue 
any action. On balance, I think its reasonable to accept Mr Hs explanation of events, 
including that he became aware in 2019 that he had cause for complaint against L&C. And I 
dont think Mr H ought reasonably to have been aware of his cause for complaint against 
L&C before then. So I dont think this complaint is out of time. I think its one this service can 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive taken into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on whats fair and reasonable, and 
explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point by point response to 
every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so, while I have considered all 
the submissions by both parties, Ive focussed here on the points I believe to be key to my 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what Ive identified as the relevant considerations to 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.Relevant considerations
The principles
In my view the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 and 6 
which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what it says about the application of the 
Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an 
ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded 
that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in 
respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, 
it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had 
therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104):These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an ombudsman is 
to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
L&C said a contravention of the Principles cant in itself give rise to a cause of action at law. 
That might be true. But Im dealing with a complaint, not a cause of action. For the reasons 
Ive given, Im satisfied the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint. As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held 
that it would be a breach of statutory duty if an ombudsman were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in Berkeley Burke.
L&C suggested Adams was a more relevant consideration for Mr Hs case than the 
Principles. I dont think the considerations in Adams case are analogous to the 
circumstances in this complaint, in which Im considering the Principles, amongst other 
things. But, notwithstanding that, I have taken Adams into account. And Ive taken into 
account L&Cs contractual relationship with Mr H which L&C said was similar to the 
relationship that existed in Adams.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued the following publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse 
the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme 
is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
These publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it treats its customers 
fairly and produces the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The publications indicated that the regulatory obligations of SIPP operators included doing 
due diligence checks on parties who introduce clients to SIPP operators and on the 
investments that SIPP operators allow to be held in SIPPs.
L&C commented on the relevance of the publications to Mr Hs complaint. It said the 2009 
report has no bearing on the construction of the Principles because the review cant found a 
claim for compensation. I acknowledge the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter 
arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). But the fact those 
publications didnt constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance doesnt mean theyre not 
relevant considerations.The publications provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an indication of the 
kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it treats its customers fairly and to 
produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, Im satisfied these 
publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
at the relevant time. So Im satisfied its appropriate to take them into account when 
considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without considering the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).

Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time. 
I note L&Cs point that the judge in Adams didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review 
Report, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant 
to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time  unlike the court in 
Adams. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and 
reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs actions with these documents in mind. The reports, 
Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt 
say the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to 
the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
L&C also said Adams made clear that standards imposed after the event couldnt be applied. 
The fact the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-
date the events of this complaint doesnt mean the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the relevant events. Its clear from the text of 
the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the 2014 Dear CEO letter), that the regulator expected 
SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the 
conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some 
industry participants understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of 
them changed over time, its clear the standards themselves had not changed. The later 
publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that 
underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those 
Principles.
Even if I took the view that publications post-dating the events of this complaint dont help 
clarify the type of good industry practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that 
doesnt alter my view on what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Thats because I find that the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear 
indication of what L&C could and should have done to comply with regulatory obligations 
that existed at the relevant time before allowing the SA investment into the SIPP.
Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  
and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications 
listed above are relevant considerations to that decision. So taking account of the factual 
context of this case, its my view that in order for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations, 
(under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other things it should have undertaken 
sufficient due diligence into RealSIPP and the business RealSIPP was introducing, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ill be looking at whether L&C 
took reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr H fairly, in accordance with 
his best interests. And what I think is fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key 
issue in Mr Hs complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted 
Mr Hs SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on RealSIPP and SA before deciding to accept Mr Hs 
SIPP application. 
The questions I need to consider are whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified that consumers 
introduced by RealSIPP and/or investing in SA were being put at significant risk of detriment. 
And, if so, whether L&C should therefore not have accepted Mr Hs application.
The contract between L&C and Mr H
L&C has made a number references to the significance of its contractual relationship with 
Mr H. My decision is made on the basis that L&C acted purely as a SIPP operator.
I dont say L&C should (or could) have given advice to Mr H or otherwise ensured the 
suitability of the SIPP or SA investment for him. I accept L&C made it clear to Mr H that it 
wasnt giving advice and nor was it able to, and that it played an execution-only role in his 
SIPP investments. And I accept Mr H signed documentation that confirmed, amongst other 
things, that he took responsibility for any losses arising as a result of L&C acting on his 
instructions.
I havent overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case is made with all of this in 
mind. But I remain satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its 
operation of SIPPs business, L&C had to decide whether to accept SIPP applications with 
the Principles in mind.I dont agree with L&C that it couldnt have rejected applications on the basis of due 
diligence checks without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment 
advice.
In Adams, the alleged breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into the SIPP 
a manifestly unsuitable underlying investment, where suitability meant suitability for Mr 
Adams. The judge didnt say the SIPP operator wasnt obliged to give any consideration to 
whether to accept or reject an application. Only that such consideration didnt need to 
include the suitability of the intended investment for the individual investor. It doesnt follow 
from this, for example, that the SIPP operator wasnt obliged to consider whether there was 
a risk the investment might be fraudulent. And, in my view, refusing to accept an application 
in such circumstances, is not the same thing as advising Mr H on the merits of investing 
and/or switching to the SIPP  there is a difference.
The business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. The regulatory publications 
provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the FSA and FCA during 
their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular investment is an 
appropriate one for a SIPP. So Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice, when conducting its business, L&C was required to consider whether to 
accept or reject particular referrals of business.
L&Cs due diligence
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, L&C needed to conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr H) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the 
circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that for L&C to meet its 
regulatory obligations, it shouldve undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider 
whether to accept or reject particular applications. L&C shouldve done due diligence checks 
on RealSIPP, as the party who introduced Mr H to L&C. And L&C should have done due 
diligence checks on the SA investment.
Due diligence on RealSIPP
L&C didnt provide any evidence to show in Mr Hs case what due diligence checks it did on 
RealSIPP or what conclusions it drew from any checks it did. Ive looked at evidence L&C 
gave us on the complaint which was the subject of published decision reference DRN-
3587366 which was about L&C accepting an introduction from RealSIPP in November 2011. 
The evidence L&C gave us in response to that complaint shows that, by the time it accepted 
Mr Hs application, L&C had:
checked the FSA register to ensure RealSIPP and its principal were regulated and 
authorised to give financial advice.
entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal.
And prior to accepting Mr Hs application L&C also had access to some information about 
the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from RealSIPP.
L&C told us on that other complaint that it wouldn't have accepted applications from a firm 
that wasnt authorised by the FSA. And L&C also told us its directors from around the same 
period have confirmed its policy was that applicants transferring an occupational pension, as Mr H was here, had to have had advice made available to them which would, as L&C put it 
in the other case, (have been) through RealSIPP. And that it was then for the applicant to 
choose whether to take up the intermediarys offer of advice.
These steps go some way towards meeting L&Cs regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice. But I think L&C failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on RealSIPP before 
accepting business from it, or L&C failed to draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what 
it did know about RealSIPP. My view is that L&C ought reasonably to have concluded it 
shouldnt accept business from RealSIPP, and it should have ended its relationship with 
RealSIPP before Mr H made his application. I say this for the following reasons:
L&C was aware or shouldve been aware of potential risks of consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by RealSIPP at the outset of its relationship with 
RealSIPP and by the time of Mr Hs application because there was insufficient 
evidence to show RealSIPP (or any other regulated party) was offering or giving full 
regulated advice to Mr H (that is advice on the transfer of the pension, the 
establishment of the SIPP and advice on the intended investment).
The introductions had anomalous features  high-risk business, in relatively high 
volumes, for unregulated overseas property developments and other esoteric 
investments. And, even though RealSIPP had the necessary permissions to give full 
advice on the business it was introducing, it wasnt giving advice on a large 
proportion of that business.
L&C shouldve taken steps to address these risks (or, given these risks, have simply 
declined to deal further with RealSIPP). Such steps shouldve involved getting a full 
understanding of RealSIPPs business model  through requesting information from 
RealSIPP and through independent checks.
Such understanding wouldve revealed there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment associated with introductions of business from RealSIPP. In the alternative 
RealSIPP would have been unwilling to answer or fully answer the questions about 
its business model. In either event L&C shouldve concluded it shouldnt accept 
introductions from RealSIPP.
The availability of advice to Mr H
Ive seen from evidence provided on the other complaint that L&C entered into intermediary 
agreements with RealSIPP and its principal CIB. As part of this process, it was open to L&C 
to mention to RealSIPP any policy requirements it had for full regulated advice to be made 
available to applicants where introduced business involved occupational pension transfers. 
L&C couldve highlighted this in its intermediary application form, The Intermediary 
Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts, or in supplementary correspondence with RealSIPP. 
But Ive seen no evidence that L&C mentioned this.
Mr Hs SIPP application didnt say whether he had been given advice at the point of sale. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr H was offered full regulated advice on his transfer to and 
investment in the SIPP.
Having considered the available evidence I think its more likely than not that Mr H wasnt 
offered full regulated advice.
So based on the available evidence I think there was insufficient basis for L&C to reasonably 
assume that advice had been given or offered to Mr H.The possibility that full regulated advice hadnt been given or made available was a clear 
and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment here. Mr H was transferring funds from a 
defined benefit pension to invest entirely in an esoteric overseas unregulated forestry 
scheme  a move which was highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail 
clients.
Anomalous features
RealSIPP was introducing consumers who were investing in high risk non-standard assets
RealSIPP had a history of introducing consumers who were all investing in high-risk non-
standard esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas property development and the 
unregulated overseas forestry scheme that Mr H invested in. As mentioned, I think its fair to 
say that such investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail 
clients. They will generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  
sophisticated and/or high net worth investors. So I think L&C either was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the type of business RealSIPP was introducing was 
high-risk and therefore carried a potential risk of consumer detriment on this basis too.
High proportion of execution-only business
In addition to the possibility that full regulated advice hadnt been given or made available to 
Mr H, the available evidence shows L&C was, or shouldve been, aware that not offering or 
giving advice was something RealSIPP was doing routinely.
Its clear L&C had access to information about the number and nature of introductions that 
RealSIPP made, as its been able to provide us with details about this when requested in 
relation to the other complaint. An example of good practice identified in the FSAs 2009 
Thematic Review Report was:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
So I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information would be 
consistent with good industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As the 2009 
Thematic Review Report said, the reason the records are important is so potentially 
unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
From the figures L&C provided, a little under half the introductions from RealSIPP were 
transacted as execution-only business (i.e. with no advice being given by RealSIPP). Thats 
a large proportion of the total business RealSIPP introduced, and I think its likely that 
RealSIPP had introduced business to L&C without providing advice on a number of 
occasions before Mr Hs introduction.
So I think that, from very early on, L&C was on notice that RealSIPP wasnt a firm that was 
doing things in a conventional way, despite being the appointed representative of a 
regulated business that had permission to advise on all the business being introduced. And I 
think L&C ought to have recognised there was a risk here that RealSIPP might be choosing 
to introduce some consumers not only without them being given full regulated advice but 
also without them having been offered full regulated advice.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with RealSIPP. Its highly 
unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in execution-only transactions involving 
pension transfers to invest in high-risk esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas forestry schemes. Thats because the risks involved in such transactions are unlikely to be 
fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say 
most advice firms decline to be involved in such transactions and certainly dont transact this 
kind of business in significant volumes.
I think L&C ought to have viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a further 
clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment.
Volume of business
During our investigation of the other complaint L&C said 153 members were introduced by 
RealSIPP and over a quarter of these had an occupational pension scheme. Prior to the 
consumers application in the other complaint RealSIPP had introduced 44 applications in 
about 9 months. I think L&C shouldve been concerned that such a volume of introductions, 
relating exclusively to consumers investing in higher-risk esoteric investments, was unusual 
 particularly from a small financial advice business like RealSIPP. And it shouldve 
considered how a small financial advice business introducing this volume of higher-risk 
business was able to meet regulatory standards.
And I think this concern ought to have been even greater in a case like Mr Hs where a 
defined benefit pension was involved. At the relevant date COBS 19.1.6G stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest.
While I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining the suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the regulators concern 
about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. Given the 
nature of its business and regulatory status, Id expect L&C to have been familiar with the 
guidance contained in COBS  even if the guidance didnt apply directly to L&C.
This was a further clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment. 
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment  
which I think were clear and obvious at the time  it shouldnt accept applications from 
RealSIPP. That wouldve been a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances. 
Alternatively, L&C couldve taken fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks of 
consumer detriment. Ive set these out below.
Requesting information directly from RealSIPP
Given the significant potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due 
diligence on RealSIPP, L&C ought to have found out more about how RealSIPP was 
operating long before it received Mr Hs application. And mindful of the type of introductions 
it was receiving from RealSIPP at the outset, I think its fair and reasonable to expect L&C, in 
line with its regulatory obligations, to have made some specific enquiries and obtained 
information about RealSIPPs business model.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review explained that the regulator would expect SIPP 
operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to be gathered and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, consumer 
detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed in an 
appropriate manner for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP guidance gave an example of good practice as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
And I think that L&C, before accepting further applications from RealSIPP, shouldve 
checked with RealSIPP about: how it came into contact with potential clients, what 
agreements it had in place with its clients, whether all of the clients it was introducing were 
being offered full regulated advice, what its arrangements with any unregulated businesses 
promoting investments were, how and why retail clients were interested in making these 
esoteric investments, whether it was aware of anyone else providing information to clients, 
how it was able to meet with or speak with all its clients, and what material was being 
provided to clients by it. 
I think its most likely that if L&C had asked RealSIPP for this information then RealSIPP 
wouldve provided a full response to the information sought. And I think its more likely than 
not that the position suggested on RealSIPPs website wouldve been confirmed  i.e. that it 
didnt provide full advice and only provided generic information on the considerations and 
risks associated with property investment.
L&C might say it wasnt required to obtain this information from RealSIPP. But I think this 
would have been a fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances, to meet its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice.
Making independent checks
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C 
to have taken independent steps to satisfy itself that full regulated advice was being offered 
to applicants like Mr H. For example, it couldve asked for copies of correspondence in which 
applicants were being offered advice.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said:
we would expect [SIPP operators] to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis)
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.So I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Mr H, directly and to ask whether theyd been offered full regulated advice on their 
transactions and/or seek copies of the suitability reports. 
L&C might say it couldnt comment on advice without potentially being in breach of its 
permissions. Again, I confirm that I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it had to take 
reasonable steps to meet its regulatory obligations. And in my view such steps included 
addressing a potential risk of consumer detriment by speaking to applicants and/or having 
sight of advice letters, as this could have provided L&C with further insight into RealSIPPs 
business model, and helped to clarify to L&C whether full regulated advice on the overall 
proposition was being offered/given. These were fair and reasonable step to take in reaction 
to the clear and obvious risk of consumer detriment Ive mentioned.
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it received Mr Hs application:
RealSIPP was presenting itself publicly (on its website) as providing only generic 
information on the considerations and risks in relation to investments, and not 
providing advice.
Consumers were being introduced to L&C without having been offered full regulated 
advice.
The other anomalous features Ive mentioned did carry a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Each of these in isolation is serious, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there was 
a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions from RealSIPP. L&C 
ought to have concluded RealSIPP had a complete disregard for its consumers best 
interests, and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations.
Had L&C carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, I think it should have identified 
that consumers like Mr H introduced by RealSIPP hadnt been offered, or received, full 
regulated advice from RealSIPP on their transactions.
As previously stated, RealSIPP said it provided generic information about investments,  
rather than advice. And Ive seen no evidence suggesting it ever offered full regulated advice 
to Mr H. This raises significant questions about the motivations and competency of 
RealSIPP  particularly where consumers were being introduced to it by unregulated 
businesses.
I think that if L&C had made enquiries with some applicants introduced by RealSIPP at the 
time, their responses wouldve been consistent with what RealSIPP (and, where relevant, 
CIB) had disclosed on its website in relation to the extent of its role.
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded that RealSIPP clients like Mr H, didnt have 
full regulated advice made available to them by any route. And have viewed this as a 
significant point of concern. As retail consumers were transferring their existing pension 
monies to L&C to invest entirely in higher-risk esoteric investments, including unregulated 
overseas property developments, and unregulated overseas forestry schemes, without the 
benefit of having been offered full regulated advice, by a business which appeared to be 
actively avoiding any responsibility to give advice.With the above in mind, L&C should also have concluded that the overall volume of business 
and the proportion of consumers who werent apparently receiving any advice raised further 
serious questions about the motivation and competency of RealSIPP.
As such, I think L&C should have concluded  certainly by the time of Mr Hs application and 
long before it  that it wasnt in accordance with its obligations, or its own policy 
requirements, to accept introductions from RealSIPP. I therefore conclude that its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to say that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Hs application 
from RealSIPP.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Mr H fairly by accepting his application from RealSIPP. To my mind, L&C didnt meet 
its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed Mr H to 
be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Due diligence on the SA investment
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself is 
acceptable for inclusion in a SIPP. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators 
publications as set out earlier in this decision. 
Taking into account the available evidence and the relevant considerations Ive described, 
and whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case my view is that L&C should, 
at least, have done the following:
Identified SA as a high-risk, speculative and non-standard investment, so it should 
have carried out sufficient due diligence
Considered whether SA was appropriate for a pension scheme
Ensured the investment was genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity
Independently verified that SAs assets were real and secure, and the investment 
operated as claimed
Ensured the investment could be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
Ensured Mr Hs SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment that wasnt a secure asset and could be a scam.
Had L&C carried out due diligence checks on these points it would have been aware of 
concerns regarding the SA investment which indicated a significant risk of consumer 
detriment. I say that because, for example:
The investment purported to offer a very high return through oil produced by jatropha 
trees. There appears to be no basis for the high projected return. I dont expect L&C 
to have been able to say the investment would be successful. But a high projected 
return without any apparent basis should have given L&C cause to question the 
investments credibility.
There was information available which called into question the viability of the 
proposed business model (particularly in light of the very high projected returns).
There was negative commentary in the public domain about investments that purported to offer high returns through investment in jatropha plants. Some of these 
articles warned investors against being seduced by high returns that might not be 
achievable, and questioned whether it was possible to make money from growing 
jatropha at all.
SA had no track record, and jatropha plants hadnt previously been used to make 
money on the scale proposed.
When Mr H made his SIPP application SAs first accounts were overdue and not yet 
published.
SAs first accounts had been published (on 6 October 2011) when L&C signed the 
lease agreement for Mr Hs SA investment on 26 October 2011. The accounts were 
subject to an opinion by an independent auditor on whether the information 
presented in the financial statements presented fairly the financial position of SA, in 
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards. An unqualified audit 
opinion would mean the statements gave a true and fair view, or were largely free 
from material misstatement. But I can see for SAs first published accounts, the 
auditors issued a qualified opinion, which means there was some limitation or 
exception to accounting standards. I note the auditor explained we have not 
obtained all the information and explanations that we consider necessary for the 
purpose of our audit and adequate accounting records have not been kept by [SA] as 
required by the Companies Act 2006.
Its not clear how the lease of a parcel of land in Cambodia could be valued or 
realised.
The investment was based overseas and would be subject to the domestic laws and 
regulations that applied to the ownership of land and matters governing investments. 
That created additional risk.
The lease and rental agreements L&C signed for the investment didnt specify the 
location of the plots L&C would lease on behalf of Mr H. They said beneficial 
ownership of the plots would be evidenced by a Certificate of Leasehold issued by 
Citadel Trustees and did not offer any evidence of title held by the lessor.
The information that was available to L&C ought to have led L&C to the following 
conclusions:
SA didnt have title to the land.
There was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such high 
returns could be offered.
The land leases, if they existed, might have been difficult to independently value, 
both at point of purchase and subsequently. It was also possible that there might be 
no market in them. So an investor might not have been able take benefits from their 
pension, or make changes to it, if they wanted to.
The investment in SA would allow L&Cs clients SIPPs to become a vehicle for a 
high-risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset and could have been 
a scam.
Based on the information L&C provided in connection with Mr Hs complaint, I cant see that 
it carried out any due diligence on the SA investment. L&C said it recalled relying on a regulated third-party to provide information about title to the land that was to be leased under 
the investment. But it didnt provide evidence of having received any such information. And I 
dont think L&C can absolve itself of its due diligence obligations by saying responsibility lay 
with a third party to provide information. If the third party had failed to provide information, 
L&C still need to do due diligence. And if L&C had received information about the title to land 
it wouldve known that SA didnt have title and the investment shouldnt be allowed in Mr Hs 
SIPP.
I dont think L&C wouldve needed to scrutinise the investment to the level of a management 
receiver appointed after the investment has failed or that it wouldve needed specialist 
knowledge about jatropha trees. Any of the information Ive mentioned above would have 
alerted L&C to the risk of consumer detriment. And the information wouldnt have required 
specialist knowledge to understand it or an unreasonable level of scrutiny to access it.
I find that in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint L&C didnt carry out due diligence to 
satisfy its reasonable responsibilities as a SIPP provider. And Im satisfied that, based on 
what was known at the time, L&C couldve identified the concerns Ive mentioned and ought 
reasonably to have drawn the conclusions Ive set out. Had it acted with due skill, care and 
diligence and treated Mr H fairly, L&C wouldve identified concerns with the SA investment. 
And it wouldve known there was significant risk of consumer detriment. So it shouldnt have 
allowed the SA investment to be a permitted investment for Mr Hs SIPP. I dont say L&C 
shouldve known the SA investment was fraudulent at the time  only that it ought to have 
identified significant points of concern, and these ought to have led it to conclude it shouldnt 
accept SA investments. It ought to have known there was a high risk of consumer detriment.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C shouldve assessed the suitability of the SA 
investment for Mr H. I accept L&C had no obligation to give advice to Mr H or otherwise 
ensure the suitability of the investment for him. L&C has said it couldnt have safeguarded 
consumers in the way our Investigator expected without straying into the territory of 
providing regulated financial advice. It said L&C had never given advice about whether to 
transfer pension entitlements or make an investment, and it had never been authorised to do 
so. But Im satisfied theres a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular 
investment for a SIPP and advising on an investments suitability for an individual investor. 
And I accept L&C wasnt expected to, and was unable to, advise Mr H on the suitability of 
the SIPP and/or SA investment for him personally.
L&C said SA allegedly having been high-risk didnt make it manifestly unsuitable. Suitability 
depends on the circumstances of the consumer which L&C was under no obligation to 
ascertain. Again, I dont say L&C should have found the investment unsuitable for Mr H 
personally. But I think it should have found the investment wasnt appropriate for a SIPP.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr H compensation in the circumstances?
The execution-only business model
L&C has said its unfair to regard an execution-only SIPP provider as responsible for a 
consumers poor investment choice because the providers business is structured on the 
basis that its providing execution-only services. I understand L&C might feel it was difficult 
to meet its regulatory requirements using its chosen business model. But it doesnt follow 
that I should ignore those requirements, or regard it as fair and reasonable for L&C to give 
Mr H less protection than the regulations required.The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Mr Hs complaint about L&C. But I accept that other 
regulated parties were involved in the transactions complained about  RealSIPP and CIB. 
L&C has said responsibility for Mr Hs loss lies with RealSIPP and CIB. CIB would be the 
respondent for complaints about activities RealSIPP undertook as an appointed 
representative of CIB. But CIB has been dissolved and no longer exists as a regulated 
business. We also cant look at complaints about SA.
The DISP rules set out that when an Ombudsmans determination includes a money award 
that award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers fair compensation for 
financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP 3.7.2R). As I set out 
above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold L&C 
accountable for its own failure to comply with the its regulatory obligations, good industry 
practice and to treat Mr H fairly. So the starting point is that it would be fair to require L&C to 
pay Mr H compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of its failings.
Ive carefully considered if theres any reason it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate 
Mr H for his loss, including whether itd be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. 
And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C 
to compensate Mr H to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs 
failings. 
I accept SA, RealSIPP and CIB might have some responsibility for initiating the course of 
action that led to Mr Hs loss. But Im satisfied its also the case that if L&C had complied 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr H 
wouldnt have come about, and the loss hes suffered couldve been avoided. 
Mr H taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
L&C has said the ambit and application of the Principles should be construed in light of 
Section 1C of FSMA. Section 1C of FSMA requires the FCA to have regard to the general 
principle that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions, when the FCA is 
considering what degree of protection for consumers may be appropriate.
Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr H should bear responsibility for the 
loss arising from his SA investment. 
Although Mr H signed a form instructing L&C to accept a transfer of his pension and invest it 
in SA, L&C was still obligated to carry out due diligence on the investment and its fair and 
reasonable to expect it to have acted on that obligation. In my view, if L&C had acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice it wouldnt have 
accepted Mr Hs application.
Would Mr Hs application have gone ahead elsewhere if L&C had declined it?
L&C has said Mr H would likely have proceeded with the transfer and investment regardless 
of the actions it took. It said other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the 
time. L&C said Mr H hadnt stated that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the investment, 
and there was no contemporaneous evidence supporting the view that he wouldnt have 
done it. L&C also said if it had refused the investment it couldnt have told Mr H why because 
that would have constituted giving investment advice, so Mr H would still most likely have 
made the investment.Mr H told us he received an incentive payment of £8,700 for transferring his pension to the 
SIPP and making the SA investment. We asked Mr H how that payment was explained to 
him and he said:
I was told by the financial adviser I would receive a small cash value within the first 
12/24 months of the investment as an incentive to invest with them. I was not aware 
of the amount until I received into my bank account.
An incentive of that size is a substantial sum and is likely to have been a motivating factor for 
Mr H to go ahead with the transfer and investment. But Mr H said he didnt know in advance 
how much he would receive.
I think its unlikely Mr H was aware that the investment was high-risk. On the fact find form 
that Mr H completed for his representative he chose the middle of three options to describe 
his risk tolerance at the time he applied for the SIPP. This was: Medium risk  Balanced: 
prepared to accept some risk. And his representative told us he thought the SA investment 
was safe. So Mr H was unlikely to have wanted to transfer his defined benefit pension 
entitlements into a SIPP with an SA investment if his application had been refused by the 
SIPP provider on the basis that the investment carried a high risk of consumer detriment.
In Adams the consumer was warned that his investment was high-risk and speculative. Ive 
seen no evidence of any such warning in Mr Hs case. Also, in Adams the consumer said he 
was happy to make a high-risk, speculative investment and that he still would have made the 
investment if his SIPP provider had warned him about the nature of the investment. HHJ 
Dight said (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Im not satisfied Mr H proceeded knowing that the investment he was 
making was high-risk and speculative, or that he was determined to move forward with a 
high-risk and speculative transaction just in order to take advantage of a cash incentive. 
Its also unlikely Mr H was aware that taking that sum from his pension might be viewed by 
HMRC as an unauthorised payment. In Adams the consumer said he knew the incentive 
payment he received was a breach of HMRC rules but he thought if he put it in his wifes 
account it would be okay.
In any case, had L&C acted appropriately and undertaken adequate due diligence then it 
shouldnt have accepted the application anyway. And had that been the case, the 
transaction wouldnt have come about in the first place  there wouldnt have been a route to 
proceed even if an incentive payment was offered to Mr H and even if Mr H wanted to make 
the transaction because he thought it would improve his financial position.
So in my opinion this case is different from Adams. And having carefully considered all of the 
circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to 
accept Mr Hs application from RealSIPP, the transaction this complaint concerns wouldnt 
still have gone ahead.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to say L&C shouldnt compensate Mr H for his loss on 
the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator wouldve made the same mistakes as 
Ive found L&C did. I think its fair instead to assume another SIPP provider wouldve 
complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt 
have accepted Mr Hs application. This wouldve been the case whether or not L&C had 
given Mr H its reasons for refusing the investment.In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint 
its fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Hs 
application. For the reasons Ive set out, I also think its fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr H 
for the loss hes suffered.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr H to the position hed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his SIPP application. I 
required L&C to calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the position 
Mr H would be in if he hadnt transferred from his defined benefit pension.
I accept Mr Hs SIPP has already been closed. So theres no need for me say L&C should 
take ownership of the SA investment in order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP 
fees prevented. Ive assumed the value of the SA investment is nil.
To put things right for Mr H L&C must:
1. I consider Mr H would have remained in his existing occupational pension if L&C 
hadnt accepted his application. L&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, 
as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in 
line with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, 
this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of this final decision.
2. If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, L&C should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested 
prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used 
in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to 
augment their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be 
augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts L&Cs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be 
augmented, given the inherent uncertainty of Mr Hs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, Mr H may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from 
their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 
75% would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
Account may be taken of the incentive payment Mr H said he received. This can be 
taken into account in the calculation on the basis of it having been paid at the outset. 
The FSCS calculation that we have seen said Mr H received £8,700. And Mr H 
confirmed to us that he received £8,700.
3. Pay Mr H £500 for the trouble and upset hes suffered.
In addition to the financial loss Mr H suffered as a result of the problems with his pension, I 
think that the loss of a significant portion of his pension provision has caused Mr H 
significant upset. Mr H said the whole situation  has been very difficult and stressful, 
knowing I had been scammed  and potential[ly] lost my future pension. And I think that its 
fair for L&C to compensate him for that.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against London & Colonial Services 
Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation up to £160,000, plus any interest 
and/or costs I consider appropriate. Where I consider fair compensation requires payment of 
an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend the business pays the balance.
Determination and award: I require London & Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr H the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
London & Colonial Services Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts my decision, the award is binding on London & Colonial Services Limited. 
My recommendation is not part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to Court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman