DRN-3869129
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr W complain about National House-Building Councils (NHBC) decision to 
decline a claim made under their Buildmark policy.
 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr W say the grass at the front of their home has been impacted by the ground 
settling around the drains laid underneath it. They said to prevent the area becoming an 
eyesore, they laid tarmac over the same area, but this also went on to be impacted by 
ground settlement. They said their driveway was also impacted. Mrs G and Mr W contacted 
NHBC who said in order to consider the matter further, they would need to see an 
independent report which set out any problems with there might be with the drains.
Mrs G and Mr W arranged this, and their report showed two separate areas of cracking in 
the drains and a buried manhole. They shared the report with NHBC, who then arranged for 
another inspection to be carried out. Following this inspection, NHBC said the second report 
didnt identify any defects with the drainage system. But instead concluded the drainage 
system had become disconnected as a result of the ground settlement following the tarmac 
being laid. They said there may not have been suitable preparations made to change the 
area from a garden to a driveway, but this did not appear to be a defect with the property. 
NHBC declined the claim, saying it wasnt covered by the Buildmark policy.
Unhappy with NHBCs response, Mrs G and Mr W complained. NHBC issued its final 
response in August 2002 and said their claim remained declined. Mrs G and Mr W referred 
their complaint to this Service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. She said 
she didnt think NHBC has acted unfairly. As Mrs G and Mr W didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I agree NHBC isnt responsible for the damage caused to the driveway as its not 
covered by the Buildmark policy. So, Ive considered if it should be responsible for the 
remaining damage to the front of Mrs G and Mr Ws home. 
I agree the report provided by Mrs G and Mr W identified two areas of cracking in the 
drainage system. However, the report is silent as to the likely cause of the cracking or the 
impact of the cracking. In the absence of this information, I dont consider this report 
contains sufficient information for me to conclude the cracking to the drainage system is a 
defect covered by this policy. 
Whereas the report instructed by NHBC specifically concludes there are no defects to the 
drainage system. It also made the finding the ground settlement was the cause of the defect 
around the ground inspection chamber, and the ground settlement was caused by the 
alterations to the driveway. The report concludes incorrect inspection chambers were 
installed in the driveway and they should be changed to take the weight of cars.
My role is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable based on the information provided. 
Where the information weve been provided with differs (as is the case here with the two 
reports making different findings on whether the drainage system is damaged), I need to 
decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
I note neither report contains a finding that enables to me to conclude the ground settlement 
in front of Mrs G and Mr Ws house was more likely than not caused by a defect with the 
drainage system. On balance, I find myself more persuaded by the report provided by 
NHBC. This concluded the damage to the drainage system occurred not as a result of a 
defect, but as a result of the alterations arranged by Mrs G and Mr W. 
In summary, I dont consider there is sufficient evidence for me to conclude the damage has 
been caused by a defect covered by the Buildmark policy. Im not going to require NHBC to 
take any further action to put things right for Mrs G and Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman