DRN-2551201
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Motorway Direct Plcs actions in connection with a guaranteed 
asset protection (GAP) policy.
What happened
Mrs R had a GAP policy which renewed on a rolling monthly basis. In 2018 Mrs Rs bank 
made a mistake and didn't pay the monthly policy premium, so the policy was cancelled. But 
after Mrs R showed that the error was the banks, Motorway Direct set up a new policy on 
the same terms but for a slightly higher premium.
In 2019 Mrs Rs direct debit again failed because of a banking error and her policy was again 
cancelled. On that occasion Motorway Direct told her that the policys underwriter no longer 
offered the same cover, so it couldn't provide her with a like-for-like replacement policy.
Mrs R didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. She said Motorway Direct 
should refund her all the premiums shed previously paid for the policy. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Rs complaint. She didn't think Motorway Direct needed to do 
anything else. Mrs R didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
It might help if I explain that Motorway Direct is an insurance intermediary (broker) not an 
underwriter. That means it sells policies and may help with their administration but it doesn't 
actually provide the insurance cover itself. Instead thats offered by the policy underwriter 
which is a separate business to Motorway Direct. And Motorway Direct isn't responsible for 
the underwriters actions or decisions, even if Motorway Direct has taken those actions on 
behalf of the underwriter. So in this decision I'm not going to make any findings concerning 
actions which are the underwriters responsibility.
Mrs Rs policy says that cover will end on the date from which the monthly premium isn't 
paid. It also says that once the policy is cancelled or lapses it can't be reinstated. The terms 
of the policy are set by the underwriter which means Motorway Direct isn't responsible for 
those. So, when Mrs Rs bank didn't pay her direct debit in 2018 the underwriter cancelled 
the policy. But Motorway Direct was able to put a new policy in place with the same terms, 
although the premium had increased slightly. But, when a similar thing happened in 2019 
and the bank again didn't pay Mrs Rs direct debit, the underwriter was no longer offering the 
policy. So Motorway Direct couldn't provide like-for-like replacement cover. 
The underwriters decision to no longer offer the policy isn't something Motorway Direct is 
responsible for. I would also point out, as Mrs R is no doubt aware, that Motorway Direct isn't 
responsible for the banks mistake in not paying the direct debit which led to the policy 
cancellation. So, while I can understand Mrs Rs frustration that she can't reinstate or 
replace the policy I don't think that's because Motorway Direct did anything wrong. And I've 
seen no reason why it should refund the premiums Mrs Rs paid previously, as those 
premiums paid for the cover Mrs R took out and could have claimed from. 
For completeness Mrs R asked what would have happened if the bank didn't make the error 
in not paying the direct debit. But I don't think thats relevant to whether or not 
Motorway Direct acted fairly after the policy was cancelled. As I've said above, 
Motorway Direct wasn't responsible for the policy cancellation, but the policy was cancelled, 
and I think Motorway Direct responded to that reasonably. So I'm not going to instruct it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman