DRN-2285133
The complaint
Mrs L complains (through her son Mr L) that Royal & Sun Alliance plc (RSA) is responsible
for mishandling her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name that
insurance company or other regulated financial firm, but we dont name any other party.
Where the complaint is about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim.
From at least 2015, Mrs L had a home emergency policy. It included cover for her gas
supply pipe, subject to a £50.00 excess.
From April 2019, RSA was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
There was also a policy administrator. Where I refer to RSA or the insurer, I include the
policy administrator and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible for their actions.
By 2019 Mrs L was over 80 years old and had dementia. She was living at home with carers
visiting her twice a day.
On Sunday 7 July 2019, a carer smelled gas. The gas infrastructure company visited and
identified a pressure drop, so turned the supply off. Mrs L was left without a gas supply to
her boiler and without central heating or hot water.
A gas supply company also visited. Its engineer confirmed a pressure drop and didnt turn
the supply back on. He said the pipework between the meter and the boiler should be re-
routed.
Mr L contacted the insurer, paid the £50.00 excess and its engineer visited. On 9 July 2019
the insurer declined to help because the pipework was difficult to access.
Mr L complained to the policy administrator. It sent a final response dated 12 July 2019. It
said his complaint was that the policy terms didnt cover the claim and the policy had been
mis-sold.
Mr L contacted us on 12 July 2019. He said that access to the pipework was perfectly
feasible. He also said that  when the policy was sold to her  his mum was a vulnerable
person and was not made aware of the policy exclusions.
Mr L said he had arranged for the gas supply company to complete the work needed on 15
July 2019 at a cost of £906.00. Mr L complained that the insurer should reimburse that, less
the policy excess.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as a complaint against the policy administrator. She
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the policy 
administrator had handled the claim appropriately and in line with the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to RSA on 25 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
The work was a re-configuration and renewal of substantially the whole of the internal 
gas supply pipe. This work went beyond the scope of reasonable efforts to repair or 
replace any damaged section of the internal gas supply pipe. So I didnt consider that 
the policy covered the work.
I wasnt minded to find that RSA treated Mrs L unfairly or unreasonably by saying 
that the repair was impossible or difficult due to problems with the access needed to 
facilitate the repair - so the policy excluded the repair.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to do anything 
further in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr L nor RSA has responded to the provisional decision. I see no reason to change 
my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen evidence of how Mrs L took out the policy. But Mr L has recently provided a
policy schedule dated 2015.
I havent seen any evidence that  at the time of the sale in or before 2015 - RSA had any
involvement in the sale (or mis-sale) of the policy to Mrs L. I find it likely that RSA was not
involved at all until 2019.
I say that because Mr L has recently provided a page showing that in earlier years another
insurance company was responsible for dealing with claims. And Ive seen a letter to Mrs L
dated 25 March 2019 saying that from 2 April 2019 the policy would be backed by RSA. That
meant that RSA would be responsible for dealing with claims after that date.
Ive seen the policy terms dated April 2019. They confirm that RSA was responsible for
dealing with claims.
The policy terms said that the excess had to be paid to the helpline before the approved
engineer will attend. So I consider that the excess applied even if the engineer attended
without doing a repair.
The policy terms included the following:
WHAT WE COVER:
We will assist you to repair or replace any damaged section of the internal gas
supply pipe following a gas leak occurring in your home.Our assistance will only be provided once the National Gas Emergency Service
have attended and isolated the leak.
The words in bold type had a definition in the policy. One of those definitions was as follows:
ASSISTANCE
means the reasonable efforts made by the approved engineer during a visit to the
home to complete a repair or replacement.
If your incident is an emergency, your call out will be given priority, otherwise an
appointment will be made.
So the policy cover only extended to reasonable efforts.
And the policy terms contained a general exclusion as follows:
Any design defect or any repair that is rendered, in our opinion, either difficult or
impossible due to problems with the access needed to facilitate the repair.
That exclusion rested on the opinion of the insurer. But I will consider whether it acted
reasonably in forming its opinion and applying the exclusion.
From what he says, Mr L was  from 2017 or 2018  acting as representative for his mother.
And Im satisfied that the policy terms were clear enough.
The insurer sent an engineer, so I dont find it fair to direct a refund of the excess. He
reported as follows:
The gas pipe is an old galvanised steel type and its in the concrete floor. Digging
up the concrete floor to repair the pipe is impossible. It needs to be re-run inside the
property across a couple of rooms or re-run outside the property somehow. Either
way this is a large repair.
From that report, I accept that it was impossible to dig up the concrete floor to get access to
repair the old steel pipe or to replace it in the concrete floor.
From what Mr L has said, the gas supply company installed a new pipe from the meter to the
boiler. And this was at a cost of £906.00.
From the photographs, I find that this work was a re-configuration and renewal of
substantially the whole of the internal gas supply pipe. I consider that this work went beyond
the scope of reasonable efforts to repair or replace any damaged section of the internal gas
supply pipe. So I dont consider that the policy covered the work.
And I dont find that RSA treated Mrs L unfairly or unreasonably by saying that the repair 
was impossible or difficult due to problems with the access needed to facilitate the repair - so 
the policy excluded the repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to do anything further in response to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman