DRN-2908644
The complaint
Mrs W complains esure Insurance Limited havent carried out proper repairs to her car 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
On 8 October 2020 Mrs W was unfortunately involved in an accident with her car being hit in 
the rear. The other party admitted full liability. Mrs W wanted her car to go to a 
manufacturers garage, but esure arranged for it to go to a garage Ill call K. Mrs Ws car was 
picked up by K on 27 October and she was given a hire car  and on 3 November her car 
was returned, and the hire car was taken back.
Mrs W says when the car was returned there were a lot of problems. She contacted esure 
again on 17 November, and they asked K to get in touch. The car was returned again on 
14 December 2020 having been back with K for a second time for repairs. Mrs W called 
esure on 22 January 2021 to say there were still issues with the repairs, and she wasnt 
happy to go back to K because they were rude and refused to collect the car.
Because of this, Mrs W complained about a number of different issues with her car.
On 5 February 2021 another company carried out an independent inspection at esures 
request. Ill call this company H. 
In Hs report, they listed out the ten issues theyd looked at and their thoughts on them. The 
first nine were issues Mrs W had raised, the last point was one theyd noticed themselves:
1. Poor tailgate alignment  satisfactory and not accident related
2. Poor left hand rear bumper corner alignment  needs to be fixed
3. Bumper reinforcement corroded  needs to be fixed
4. Stainless steel exhaust has been replaced by recycle system  not replaced so no 
action required
5. Left hand quarter glass surround moulding insecure  fix as a gesture of goodwill by 
K
6. Water leak into left hand front footwell  investigate and report as a gesture of 
goodwill by K
7. Right hand front door handle sticks in the open position  fix as a gesture of goodwill 
by K
8. Right hand front seat belt stalk inoperative  seat belt was fine so no action required
9. Left hand rear tyre deflated  fix as a gesture of goodwill by K
10. Tailgate badges insecure  needs to be fixed
Mrs W didnt agree with this so complained to esure.
In response esure said of the ten points raised, H agreed with points 2, 3 and 10, didnt 
agree with 1, 4 and 8, and said esure could do the remaining four points as a gesture of 
goodwill. They said theyd not seen anything to think Hs opinion was incorrect. And, in their 
experience, didnt think window mouldings, door issues or a water leak in the front footwell 
were likely related to the rear end impact Mrs Ws car suffered. To move forward, esure 
offered three options:
Have K fix points 2, 3 and 10, along with the gesture of goodwill items
Send Mrs W £302.92 which is what H said points 2, 3 and 10 would cost. They said 
they wouldnt cover the gesture of goodwill items at another repairer. 
Or Mrs W can get an estimate from her own garage for points 2, 3 and 10  saying 
they werent comfortable paying another garage for works K had agreed to do as a 
gesture of goodwill.
But, esure did accept things hadnt been handled properly, saying it wasnt acceptable some 
of the issues hadnt been properly fixed. Because of that, they paid Mrs W £75 into her 
account.
Unhappy with esures response Mrs W asked us to look into things. When doing so, she 
explained esure had taken the courtesy car back, so she had no way of getting around  and 
she said the car has lost around £5,000 in value as a result of sitting on her driveway for 
months. She also said one of Ks representatives had been abusive to her which is why she 
didnt want her car to go back to them. She also had concerns over other issues with the car 
 such as it pulling to the left when driven. She said H couldnt have checked this, as they 
didnt drive it when they inspected it.
One of our investigators considered things. He felt esure had dealt with the complaint fairly 
by offering the three options and paying £75 compensation, so didnt think they needed to do 
anything further.
Mrs W didnt agree with this. She felt esure were in breach of contract, no safety checks 
were done after the repairs, and shed suffered unnecessary stress. She added that Hs 
report wasnt accurate, as they didnt do the things at the time of the inspection theyd put in 
the report  such as saying the car drives straight as they never drove the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that our service arent experts or mechanics. So, we cant 
physically inspect a car to determine what happened, instead we rely on the reports by the 
relevant experts unless theres a reason not to.
That means in Mrs Ws case, for me to say that I uphold her complaint, Id need to be 
satisfied the information provided from K and / or H was wrong. Itd need to show me that 
some of the issues Mrs W has raised were caused by the accident  or call that into 
question.
I can see esure have said on several occasions if Mrs W were to provide her own 
independent report, theyd consider that. Mrs W has told us shes not been able to afford the 
report. Thats unfortunate, but it does mean the only expert evidence on the state of the car 
is information provided by K and H.
Mrs W has said H have said the car drove fine and there were no issues with the brakes. So, 
Ive looked at the report she was provided with. This says:Steering: No Apparent Defects
Brakes: Pedal Travel Acceptable
Ive seen no reference in the report by H saying theyve driven the car. And I think both of 
these comments are consistent with what Mrs W has said  which is the car wasnt driven it 
was just inspected on her driveway. So, I cant agree this means I should question the 
validity of the report as Mrs W has argued.
In looking at the items Mrs W initially singled out H have said some of these need additional 
work, some dont, and K had agreed to fix some of the issues as a gesture of goodwill. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest H wouldnt have said these need to be fixed as part of the accident 
as well  so I can only conclude H didnt think they were caused as a result of the accident. 
And, something I think adds further weight to H having carried out their inspection properly, 
is that they picked up on something theyve said Mrs W didnt complain about. This was 
point ten  which theyve said wasnt mentioned by Mrs W in her initial complaint.
Overall then, Ive seen nothing to suggest K or H have said or provided incorrect information. 
That means Ive seen no reason not to rely on the information provided. And, as Mrs W 
hasnt been able to provide anything that contradicts this information, Im only able to say 
esure have acted fairly in relying on this information as well.
In their response to Mrs Ws complaint, esure offered her three options which Ive listed out 
above. Given esure have acted fairly in relying on the report from H I think these options are 
fair. 
The first allows K the opportunity to fix any remaining issues, and theyd do some further 
issues as a gesture of goodwill  presumably as a result of the problems Mrs W had. This 
seems fair.
The second option is for esure to send Mrs W £302.92. Mrs W has questioned why in the 
information from K it says the cost of repairs is over £2,500  but in the report from H it says 
the cost of repairs are £302.92 which is what shed get. But that first figure of £2,500 is for 
the original repair costs which K have already carried out. The figure of £302.92 represents 
the costs of fixing the remaining issues. So, I dont think esure have done anything wrong in 
saying theyd only pay her this figure rather than the £2,500. And, as Ive explained above, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the gesture of goodwill items were caused by the accident  so 
I wouldnt expect esure to pay for them themselves.
And the third option addresses Mrs Ws concerns over taking her car back to K by saying 
she could take her car to her own garage, and theyd pay for those repairs. Because of the 
previous issues this seems reasonable.
So, I think esure have offered reasonable solutions to resolve the issues. But Mrs W hasnt 
accepted any of them currently.
On several occasions Mrs W has asked why esure havent given her a courtesy car when 
there are issues not resolved. Under the policy terms I can see esure would give a courtesy 
car when repairs need to be carried out. And, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied esure have given a fair answer about further repairs which Mrs W hasnt accepted. 
With that in mind, as no repairs are currently due to be completed, esure arent required to 
provide a courtesy car.
Ive also noted Mrs W has said the car isnt safe to drive. But, her car was MOTd after the 
inspection by H and it passed. So, if the car isnt safe now, I dont think I can reasonably say thats as a result of the accident  because if it was, I think its likely the MOT would have 
picked this up.
I do agree though that it shouldnt have taken two efforts to try and repair Mrs Ws car. And 
although I know Mrs W doesnt agree, I think the £75 esure paid her for this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say that because although there were several months 
between the issues, it seems Mrs W was driving the car during this time  so I think the 
impact of any issues were somewhat limited as a result of that.
Overall then, I find esure have acted fairly, and arent required to do anything further other 
than the three offers theyve already made her to move forward with the repairs. If Mrs W 
wishes to accept any of these offers, then shell need to speak to esure directly to make 
arrangements.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman