DRN-3152809
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan. She isnt happy that 
it turned down a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M took out her pet insurance policy through Allianz in April 2018. Her dog had a pea 
size lump on its foot at this time, but she didnt tell Allianz about this when she applied for the 
policy.
As the growth got bigger the vet removed the lump and she made a claim under her policy 
for the costs incurred in May 2021. But when Allianz looked into the claim for her it turned it 
down. It said Mrs M shouldve made it aware of the pre-existing lump before the policy was 
taken out. And had she have told it about the pre-existing condition it would have added an 
exclusion in relation to skin disorders. So it wouldnt pay the vet costs incurred.
Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so she complained to Allianz and then this service. Allianz 
maintained its position and said that she should have told it about the pre-existing condition 
before she took the policy out. And when our investigator looked into things for Mrs M she 
didnt uphold her complaint. This was because she thought that Allianz hadnt acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim as she agreed Mrs M should have told it about the lump 
on her dogs foot when the policy was taken out.
As Mrs M didnt agree, saying that she hadnt claimed under the policy before and thought 
the claim should be met, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M, but Ill explain why.
I have some sympathy for Mrs M as I dont think it was ever her intention not to tell her 
insurer about her dogs pre-existing condition and Allianz agree. But she was asked clear 
questions about this before she took out the policy. Mrs M says that she didnt think her 
insurer was bothered about these things and the lump wasnt a concern at the time she took 
out the policy. However, she was fully aware of the lump and had discussed it with the vet in 
the past when they decided to keep an eye on it  this was before she took out her pet 
insurance policy with Allianz.
So, when Mrs M was asked if her dog had ever been seen by a vet for any reason she 
should have said yes. And Mrs M should also have said yes to a question about whether 
her dog had ever shown any signs of illness or injury. But Mrs M answered no, and while I 
dont think she deliberately answered the question incorrectly she should have told Allianz 
about the lump which was being actively monitored. And at an earlier stage of her 
application Mrs M was told by Allianz that your pets health history can affect your cover.
Given all of this, and the fact that the lump was pre-existing, I dont think Allianz has acted 
unreasonably in turning down the claim. I say this as Mrs M should have told it about the 
lump and the vets advice about it - had she have done so Allianz would have added a 
clause in relation to skin conditions. And most, if not all, pet insurance policies exclude any 
pre-existing conditions in any event. Indeed, Mrs Ms policy documentation and summary 
made it clear that any pre-existing condition would not be covered. So, Mrs Ms claim in 
relation to the lump would always have been excluded as it was clearly a pre-existing issue 
and so I dont think Allianz acted unreasonably in declining the claim.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman