DRN-4502655
The complaint
Ms Hs complaint is about the handling of a claim under her home emergency insurance
policy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA), provided as part of a package of benefits by
her bank.
What happened
On 30 April 2022, Ms H made a claim under her policy with IPA as she had found a leak
from her boiler. The boiler is situated on the first floor and IPAs notes say she reported the
leak had come through the ceiling and staircase below. Ms H said that she had turned the
water off at the mains to stop the leak but this meant she had no water in the house.
IPA attended on 1 May 2022 and said a part needed to be replaced. IPA isolated the boiler
while it waited for a new part, which was fitted on 4 May 2022. However, a short time after
IPAs contractor had left, Ms H came home to find the boiler leaking from the same place
and says the property was flooded. Ms H says this caused damage to the floor, ceiling, walls
electrics and furniture. She got her own engineer to isolate the boiler, to stop the leak. Ms H
says the engineer told her the part had not been fitted correctly. She reported this to IPA and
it went back out on 5 May 2022 and said the part it had fitted had failed. It replaced the part
again the following day and I understand this resolved the problem.
IPA says it was a fault with the part and not the workmanship of its engineer that caused the
part to fail. IPA also said that Ms H should make a claim under her household buildings and
contents insurance for the damage. However, it said there had already been water damage
to the property (and the leak may have been going on for a time before it was noticed) but
that it accepted that it might have caused additional damage. IPA said if Ms H was able to
provide evidence of the further damage and quotes it would consider this further.
IPA also offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by having to wait for the
original repair for three days and having to get her own engineer out when it failed.
Ms H was unhappy with this. She says IPA is responsible for significant damage to her
home. She says the lounge ceiling (which is asbestos) needs to be replaced, among other
things and IPA should pay to put it right. Ms H says she will incur an excess and increased
premiums if she has to make a claim under her household insurance, which would be unfair.
Ms H also says she had no running water at all and no heating or hot water, between 30
April to 4 May 2022.
Ms H made a complaint to this service in November 2022. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She thought IPAs offer to consider any 
quotes for the repairs needed that Ms H could provide and the offer of £100 compensation 
was fair and reasonable. Ms H provided a quote to IPA for the repair of the ceiling. However, 
IPA has not agreed to meet any costs and Ms Hs home has not been repaired.
Ms H came back to us to ask us to look at the matter again. The Investigator considered the
complaint again and said that IPA should pay the cost of the repairs Ms Hs has claimed for
(ceiling, bed frame, lampshades, which were on coffee tables under the leak, and decorative
work) and £250 compensation for the delay in dealing with the matter, including the impact
on Ms H of the property still being damaged.
IPA does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
IPA said again that, while it may have caused some further damage, but the same repairs
would have been needed anyway as a result of the first leak.
In the meantime, we asked Ms H for some further details of the damage she says occurred
and quotes for the work needed, as well as a report from her contractor that she had
previously referred to.
Ms H provided an email from her contractor that said when he attended on 4 May 2022, he
found the leak coming from the bottom connection of the z pipe. The brass fitting and
retaining clip had not been secured correctly to the part underneath and was leaking badly.
She also provided a quote for decorating the lounge and said she is waiting for quotes for
the reboarding and plastering the ceiling.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2023, the main part of which is 
copied below: 
Ms Hs policy provides cover for any sudden and unexpected incident including 
where gas or water services have failed. Given that the policy covers failure of 
essential services, there is a reasonable expectation that repairs will be carried out 
as soon as possible.
Ms H was without heating or hot water or any water from 30 April 2022 and it took 
four days for IPA to attend. I think that was longer than should reasonably have been 
the case. I can see that IPA offered Ms H alternative accommodation but she 
declined this because she has a dog. I think it was reasonable to offer alternative 
accommodation but I do consider some compensation is warranted for this delay. I 
will address this further below.
IPA attended on 4 May 2022 but the repair failed almost immediately. Ms Hs 
contractor said the part had not been installed correctly, which caused the further 
leak. IPA said the part was faulty, rather than a workmanship issue. I have not seen 
any  [convincing] evidence the part was faulty. Given that the repair failed almost 
immediately after IPAs contractor turned the water back on and left, and in the 
absence of any convincing evidence the part was faulty, I think IPA did cause this 
second leak.
As a result, Ms H had to call out her own contractor to stop the leak. This should not 
have been necessary, so any costs she paid him for this visit should be reimbursed.
IPA came out the next day and it was repaired properly. So altogether Ms H was 
without water, heating and hot water for five days and had to get her own contractor 
out and had to have an extra repair visit, which were unnecessary.
In addition, Ms H says that because IPA didnt install the required part properly on    
4 May 2022, there was a further significant leak which flooded her property, which 
caused damage to the lounge ceiling, a bed and lampshades. She wants IPA to pay 
for the necessary repairs.
In order to be satisfied that IPA should pay towards any of the repairs, there needs to 
be some convincing evidence that the repairs are only needed because of IPAs 
error.I have considered carefully everything that has been provided.
There is very little evidence about the extent of the first leak Ms H reported on the   
30 April 2022. There are no photos for example from before IPA attended. However, 
it appears she reported this leak having found water coming through the lounge 
ceiling and into a staircase.
It seems to me that there would therefore inevitably have been some water damage 
caused to Ms Hs home as a result of this leak. IPA is not responsible for any 
damage caused by the first leak (such damage is not covered under the policy and 
IPA did not cause it).
The second leak was from the same place but Ms H says this is what caused the 
damage to her property, such that the lounge ceiling needs to be replaced, 
decoration works are needed and a bed frame and lampshades were damaged.
Ms H has provided some photos following IPAs attendance, which show a large, 
long crack in the artex ceiling of her lounge and a crack on a wall. However, none of 
the photos clearly show water damage. For instance, there is no bowing or staining 
as far as I can tell. 
Ms H has provided a quote for removing the ceiling but this states the contractor did 
not attend the property and there is no evidence that the ceiling needs to be removed 
because of water damage. And even if it does need to be removed because of water 
damage, there is no convincing evidence that this was damage caused solely or 
predominantly by the leak IPA caused. 
Ms H says she is also waiting for some other quotes but I do not think these will
help establish the cause of the repairs needed.
As stated, the second leak was from the same place as the first, so its reasonable to
assume it would have affected the same areas. In addition, I note that Ms H told the
Investigator the leak IPA caused was apparently going on for only around 10 minutes 
(she said she had popped out to get some supplies and when she returned the 
house was flooded) when she found it. She called someone out immediately to stop 
the leak. I dont know exactly how long it was going on for but it seems to not have 
been left for very long.
It is difficult therefore, in the absence of any other evidence, to conclude that any 
damage to the property was only as a result of the second leak. The damage may 
have been made worse than it would otherwise have been but unless the removal 
and replacement of the ceiling and redecoration would not have been necessary at 
all but for the second leak, I do not consider I can require IPA to pay the cost of the 
repairs.
Ms H has provided a photo of a water mark on the divan bed frame and also says 
some lampshades were damaged. Again there is no evidence, other than what Ms H 
has said, that these were damaged solely as a result of IPAs actions. While I have 
no reason to doubt Ms Hs word, I do require some further evidence to support this, 
given that there was already a leak that was significant enough to have come through 
the ceiling below. On the evidence currently available, I do not consider there is 
enough evidence to determine that IPA should pay for these items.
Having considered everything available to me, I am not persuaded that I can 
reasonably require IPA to meet the costs of the repairs to Ms Hs property or the damaged items.
However, I do think that some compensation is warranted for the time she was 
without water and the fact there was a further leak, which she had to resolve and 
another attendance by IPA to put that right. Overall, I consider the sum of £350 to be 
appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and require it to 
do the following:
1. Reimburse cost of her own engineer who isolated the boiler on 4 May 2022, on
production of suitable evidence of the payment, together with interest at 8% simple
per annum, from the date Ms H paid this cost, to the date of reimbursement.
2. Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
handling of this claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
IPA has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision and has not added anything further. 
Ms H has also responded. She does not accept my provisional decision and has made some 
further comments. I have considered everything she has said but have summarised her 
comments below:
The first leak began while she was at home, she was therefore able to stop it 
promptly. The water came from directly underneath the boiler and came through the 
ceiling above the staircase and passage below. She was happy to cover any 
redecoration costs to the affected area. 
The second leak, which was a result of incompetent workmanship by IPA, flooded 
her bedroom and was flowing through the lounge ceiling. If she had been home, the 
damage would not have been as great as it was. The water had sufficient time to 
flood a room and make its way through a ceiling, this evidences that the second leak 
caused the damage in the lounge. Her contractor also witnessed this. 
She was awake through the night of 4 May 2022, trying the control the escape of 
water in the lounge. She used three buckets and ten large towels to try and contain it. 
IPA also took several photos of the lounge ceiling showing it bowed, stained and 
heavily damaged. 
She has been caused a massive amount of distress and inconvenience by this, 
including time involved in obtaining quotes and confirming the presence of asbestos.
IPA deliberately delayed communications and did not respond to her complaint within 
the specified timescales.  
She has lived with the damage for nearly two years, which is unacceptable and she 
wants her lounge restored to its former immaculate state. 
The compensation I proposed is not realistic or proportionate to the event. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated in my provisional decision, in order to consider IPA responsible for any repair 
costs, there needs to be convincing evidence that the repairs are only needed because of 
IPAs error. 
Ms H says the second leak affected a different area than the first leak and there was no 
damage to the lounge ceiling as a result of the first leak. It seems the leaks both came from 
the same location in the boiler: IPA replaced the z pipe as it was leaking and the second leak 
was because the new z pipe had not been connected properly. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision there are no photos or reports of the extent of the 
damage caused by the first leak. Ms H says she would have paid for any redecoration costs 
caused by this. So it does suggest there was some damage caused. And again I note the 
water came through the ceiling, so it seems likely there was some damage as a result of the 
first leak. But, even if I accept the first leak did not affect the lounge ceiling, there is not 
enough evidence that the lounge ceiling needs to be replaced due to the error by IPA.  
Ms H says that there were photos taken by IPA which showed the ceiling bowed, stained 
and heavily damaged. However, the only photos I have seen show a crack in the artex 
ceiling and a crack in the wall but no obvious water damage. I have not seen any photos 
showing water marks or the ceiling bowing. And there is only a quote for removal of the 
ceiling from a contractor that has not been to the property. 
Ms H has not provided anything further that would establish the ceiling needs to be replaced 
due to water damage, or at all. In addition, even if there were evidence of water damage to 
the lounge ceiling, there is no convincing evidence that any such water damage was caused 
solely or predominantly by the leak IPA caused. 
I therefore remain of the opinion that I cannot reasonably require IPA to pay for the 
replacement of the lounge ceiling and other repairs. 
Ms H also says the bedroom was flooded by the second leak, which damaged her bed and 
some lampshades in the lounge were also damaged. No additional evidence has been 
provided to support that this was solely as a result of IPAs actions. I therefore remain of the 
opinion that there is not enough evidence to determine that IPA should pay for these items. 
Ms H does not think the compensation I have proposed is sufficient to reflect the trouble 
caused to her. She says she was up all night containing the water leak and had to clean her 
sofa and towels. When considering the amount of compensation that would be appropriate I 
took account of the fact there was a further leak that Ms H had to resolve. I appreciate this 
would have required clearing up the leak as well. Having considered everything again, I still 
consider the £350 I provisionally proposed to be reasonable in the circumstances and in line 
with awards made in similar scenarios. 
Ms H has also said that IPA deliberately delayed communications and did not respond to her 
complaints within specified timescales. I have not seen any evidence of any deliberate 
delays on IPAs part. There was a delay in its initial repair, which I have already addressed. 
IPA reattended Ms Hs property the day after the second leak and rectified the problem.
If there were delays in dealing with Ms Hs complaint, I cannot address that, as complaint-
handling is not an activity that we can consider in its own right. In any event, consumers 
have the right to refer the complaint to us within eight weeks of raising their complaint with a 
financial business, whether the business has responded to the complaint or not. I do not 
therefore consider I can take this point any further. My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and require it to do the
following:
1. Reimburse Ms H the cost of her own engineer who isolated the boiler on 4 May 
2022, on production of suitable evidence of the payment, together with interest at 8% 
simple per annum, from the date Ms H paid this cost, to the date of reimbursement.
2. Pay Ms H £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman