DRN-4034841
The complaint
Miss B complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) havent dealt with the balance on 
her account fairly when shes been going through difficulties. 
What happened
Miss B is unhappy about how Capital One responded to her when she told them about her 
financial and personal health difficulties. Miss B told us she suffers from a mental health 
condition and, when that is acute, she has issues managing her personal and financial 
affairs. In August 2020 Capital One agreed to a three month payment holiday on her credit 
card account with them. 
In May 2021, Capital One refused Miss Bs request to write off her balance on medical 
grounds. Shed made the request with assistance from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) 
and thought Capital Ones refusal was insensitive. She thought as Capital One wouldnt 
agree to a repayment plan, she was paying more in interest than she should. And despite 
reaching out to Capital One for further help with the balance on her credit card she felt theyd 
treated her in a way which showed they didnt care.
Capital One didnt uphold her complaint. They thought theyd provided the appropriate help 
and support with this account by stopping interest and fees when they were made aware of 
her circumstances.  So, they felt theyd treated Miss B fairly. They said the information via 
the CAB in 2021 showed more outgoings than income so they couldnt agree to a formal 
payment arrangement as she didnt have the affordability to make payments. And, at the 
time, they didnt agree to writing off the balance. But they said they had applied breathing 
space to the account since 2016 and stopped interest and fees and they would continue to 
send letters to keep her informed of the accounts status. Capital One asked that she 
continued to make affordable payments to reduce the balance. 
During our investigation Capital One told us that in relation to the write off request they 
would need to get a better understanding of Miss Bs circumstances and what the root cause 
was of why she was unable to manage the account as it had been managed well to date. 
They also said if Miss B could send updated income and expenditure information they would 
look into this further. Miss B sent this and Capital One responded saying it was unlikely 
theyd agree to write off the balance as the accounts history suggested she was able to 
manage the account and the income and expenditure information suggested her financial 
situation had improved since March 2021 as she had a disposable income suggesting the 
minimum monthly payments required were affordable.
Our investigator issued two views in this matter and didnt uphold the complaint in either. In 
the first view he thought the decision not to write off the debt was reasonable following a 
review of the financial and medical information Miss B and the CAB sent them. And it 
wouldnt have been fair reasonable or proportionate for them to put her into a repayment 
arrangement when the evidence suggested she had a negative disposable income in 2021. 
He thought the reviewable breathing space arrangement was a sensible approach in the 
circumstances. And overall that Capital Ones response had been positive and sympathetic.
Miss B didnt agree with this view, she didnt think the matter had been properly finalised as 
the investigator as he hadnt set out the steps Capital One should provide for this account 
going forward. And despite what had been said about the ongoing breathing space 
continuing she noticed interest charges had recently been applied to her account without 
Capital One first contacting her for a financial review. 
Our investigator was told by Capital One the breathing space had been removed as it hadnt 
got a response to a review letter. Miss B said she hadnt received a review letter. In his 
second view the investigators opinion on the outcome remained unchanged. He was 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Capital One to re-apply interest to the account when it 
did so he didnt ask them to take any corrective action.
Miss B disagreed and said she was concerned that the government and this service werent 
giving clear information on breathing space or terms. 
I asked Miss B for more information and she responded although didnt deal with the 
substance of my request. I asked Capital One to explain their review decision not to write off 
the balance from May 2022 - based on a three figure disposable income - as on my 
interpretation of Miss Bs figures at that time showed the same negative disposable income 
as in 2021. 
Capital One reviewed the matter and decided to write off the balance. To date Miss B hasnt 
responded to our request as to whether she felt this offer fully resolved her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 1 March 2023. I thought, after establishing 
Miss Bs financial information from May 2022 had been misinterpreted, Capital One 
responded reasonably. They agreed to write off the balance and to contact Miss B to confirm 
this along with the details of the write off. So, I didnt think they needed to do anything 
further. Neither party have responded to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have responded to my provisional decision. As such theres nothing before me 
which changes my substantive findings in this complaint. So, I dont see any reason to alter 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Capital One (Europe) plc should write off the balance on this account and contact Miss B to 
explain this to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc should write off the 
balance on this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman