DRN-3553735
The complaint
Mr A complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent him 
money on high cost loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr A with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Term Instalment* Date repaid
Loan 1 13/7/2016 £2,000 12 months £232 10/10/2016
Loan 2 31/8/2017 £5,000 60 months £221 15/10/2019
Loan 3 23/12/2019 £4,000 36 months £212 2/9/2020
Loan 4 4/11/2020 £5,000 36 months £244 18/11/2020
*rounded up
Mr A repaid all the loans in time and repaid loan 4 within 14 days by taking out a lower cost 
loan. He said that the loans were unaffordable to him as he was heavily in debt due to his 
problems with online gambling. He believes that if Likely Loans had checked his credit report 
or asked for his bank statement before providing the loans, it would have found them to be 
unaffordable. Over the period he says he had over 50 payday loans and other loans with 
high interest providers.
Likely Loans do not have an actual credit report from the time of this application. The credit 
file data is extracted from the credit reference agency, in a coded format and is processed 
electronically. It has provided this data for each loan, together with the data from each loan 
application. For loans 1 and 2 it said that had the loans been applied for today, it would have 
assessed Mr As expenditure based on ONS (Office for National Statistics) data, which it did 
use for loans 3 and 4. Nevertheless it assessed that each loan was affordable, Mr A having 
sufficient monthly disposable income to pay for them.
Our adjudicator accepted that for loans 1,2 and 3, Likely Loans had made a fair lending 
decision. However, he said that for loan 4, as Mr As credit commitments had gone up 
substantially since the issue of loan 3, Likely Loans should have investigated Mr As finances 
more thoroughly. Likely Loans agreed with the adjudicators view and offered to pay back the 
interest payments for loan 4 with added interest on those payments.
Mr A disagreed, pointing out that if Likely Loans had asked for bank statements it would 
have discovered his gambling which was a huge problem for him during the period of the 
loans. He has supplied bank statements for the two months around the application for loan 3 
and similarly for loan 4.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
All the loans represented a considerable commitment for Mr A, both in terms of the length of 
time over which the loans were to be repaid and the amount of those instalments. This meant that Likely Loans should carried out a thorough though proportionate assessment of 
Mr As financial circumstances.
loan 1
The credit check showed that Mr A had revolving credit (e.g. credit cards, mail order 
accounts) commitments totalling just over £7,000 and non-revolving credit (loans) of just 
under £4,000. His monthly income was assessed at £2,079. This meant that with the new 
loan his credit commitments would have been about 38% of his income, a rather high figure 
which could have indicated that the loan was potentially unaffordable.
Likely Loans assessed however that, applying ONS data Mr A would have had around £480 
monthly disposable income after paying the new loan instalment. So on the face of it, the 
loan was affordable. I have considered whether Likely Loans should have been alerted to 
anything in the checks it did to carry out more investigation of Mr As finances e.g. by looking 
at bank statements. The record showed he hadnt had any recent payday loans and that he 
had had defaults in the past though not for two years. There was no indication that he had 
had an overdraft. So, I think the indications appeared to be that though he had struggled in 
the past, he was paying his debts. This was his first loan with Likely Loans so I think it did 
carry out a proportionate assessment. By that I mean that it did the checks necessary to 
establish if Mr A could afford the loans. It wasnt required to carry out a full forensic 
investigation of his circumstances.
The rules Ive referred to dont require loan providers to ask consumers to provide bank 
statements, but if Likely Loans had looked at Mr As bank statements or carried out any 
other checks I dont know what it would have seen, as Mr A hasnt provided a statement for 
the period around the issuing of this loan. So I dont know if it would have shown any 
gambling transactions, whether the gambling was getting out of hand or any other debts.
loan 2
The credit check for this loan showed that, having paid off loan 1, Mr A no longer had any 
payments due on loans. His revolving credit payments had reduced by over £700. This 
meant that, with the new loan instalment his credit commitments represented about 22% of 
his income. And his disposable income was assessed at over £1,100. All the indications 
were that Mr A was getting his finances back on track. A credit check wont necessarily show 
all the debts the consumer has, as not all loans/credit are registered with all the agencies. 
But again Mr A didnt appear to be overdrawn, and I cant see anything in the checks Likely 
Loans did to indicate that the loan wasnt affordable.
loan 3
By the time Mr A applied for this loan, his revolving credit commitments had gone down, by 
nearly £2,000. He had no new loans, according to the credit check, and had paid off loan 2. 
His assessed income had gone down, but still his credit commitments (including the new 
loan) Ive assessed at being just over 20% of his income. And his disposable monthly 
income remained at around £1,100. So again I think Likely Loans did proportionate checks 
and nothing in those checks in my view would have alerted it to carry out further checks. So I 
think it made a fair lending decision.
This is the first loan for which we have seen Mr As bank statements. They showed that he 
had had a short-term loan of £1,400 but he had repaid that within two weeks so it wouldnt 
have been of any concern. The statements do show that Mr A was spending huge amounts 
on gambling (over £61,000 in October to November 2019). But if that statement is anything 
to go by he was receiving back more than he paid out which may explain why it didnt reflect on his overall credit. As Ive said I can see nothing in the checks Likely Loans did to alert it 
to carry out more investigations. And whilst I understand that Mr A felt unable to say he had 
a gambling problem, nevertheless loan providers will be reliant on consumers telling them 
about any debts that may not be shown in normal checks. If a business suspects that a 
consumer isnt telling the truth then of course it should carry out further enquiries. But I cant 
see in this case that it had any reason to doubt what Mr A was telling it.
loan 4
As Likely Loans has accepted the adjudicators view in respect of this loan, I wont make 
any further comment, but will make directions accordingly.
   
Putting things right
Mr A has had the capital sum in respect of loan 4 and its fair for that sum to be repaid. In 
respect of loan 4 Likely Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr A as payments respectively towards the capital 
amounts.
If Mr A has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% simple 
interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information, if appropriate, about the loan from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in respect of loan 4 and require OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED 
trading as Likely Loans to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
I dont uphold the complaints in respect of loans 1,2 and 3. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman