DRN-2940831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money they lost when 
they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W say they were looking to invest in cryptocurrency and so did some research 
on the internet about the best way to do this. They were then contacted by a company 
claiming to offer investment in cryptocurrency, but who we now know to be scammers. Mr 
and Mrs W then made a number of payments, as set out below, which they thought were 
going towards cryptocurrency investments.
Date Amount
20 May 2019   £1,801.15
20 May 2019   £3,499.68
4 June 2019 £20,000.00
24 June 2019 £20,000.00
12 September 2019   £4,000.00
13 September 2019   £5,000.00
16 September 2019   £9,202.52
23 September 2019   £5,401.00
26 September 2019   £5,401.50
Mr and Mrs W say the company sent them a link through which they could view their 
investment account. And this showed they were making a profit and appeared to mirror the 
actual market, so they thought it was legitimate. But when they tried to withdraw some of the 
profit theyd made they were told they had to pay fees and taxes first, and then the company 
stopped responding to their emails. Mr and Mrs W then realised it was a scam and reported 
the payments to Barclays.
Barclays investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments. It said it couldnt do anything 
further to recover the money Mr and Mrs W had lost and paid them £25 as an apology for 
not responding to their letters. Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with Barclays response so 
referred their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they thought Barclays should have 
been concerned Mr and Mrs W were at risk of fraud from the payments and so carried out 
further checks and warned Mr and Mrs W about the risks involved. And they thought that, if 
Barclays had done this, Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have gone ahead with all the payments. So 
they thought Barclays should refund the £3,499.68 payment and all the subsequent 
payments, plus interest. Barclays hasnt responded to our investigators letter, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs W authorised the payments. They say they made the 
payments themselves, through both online and mobile banking. So while I recognise that 
they didnt intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Barclays 
was obliged to follow their instructions and process the payments. So Mr and Mrs W arent 
automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Barclays 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr and Mrs W have said they initially made a smaller payment of £250 to the cryptocurrency 
investment company to see how the investment would work. I cant see this payment on the 
statements for their account. But, in any event, I wouldnt expect Barclays to have identified 
that Mr and Mrs W were potentially at risk of fraud from this payment as it was relatively 
small and in-line with the amounts of the payments typically leaving their account.
I do think Barclays should have identified that the payment of £3,499.68 was unusual and 
out of character though. This was for a relatively large amount of money and a significantly 
larger amount than most of the other transactions on Mr and Mrs Ws account in the 
previous twelve months. There were some larger transactions out of the account in the 
months before, but these were bill payments or transfers to what appear to be family 
members, that Mr and Mrs W had sent money to before. Whereas this payment was an 
international payment, which Mr and Mrs W hadnt done in the previous twelve months, and 
was sent to a new payee which they hadnt sent money to before that day. So I think 
Barclays should have identified that Mr and Mrs W were potentially at risk of fraud as a result 
of this payment and carried out additional checks before processing it.
I accept its not for this service to dictate the checks Barclays should do or the questions it 
should ask. But, given the size of this payment and how unusual it was, I think in these 
circumstances it would be reasonable to expect these additional checks to include questions 
about the purpose of the payment, how Mr and Mrs W had been in contact with the 
cryptocurrency investment company and what research theyd done into the company.
If it had asked these questions, I think Barclays wouldve found out that Mr and Mrs W were 
looking to invest in cryptocurrency, that the company had contacted them and that theyd not 
done significant research into the company. On finding this out, I think Barclays should then have warned Mr and Mrs W about the increase of scams of this type in recent years, the 
importance of checking the company they were dealing with was legitimate and the risks of 
sending money in this way.
As Barclays is a financial business and Mr and Mrs W werent experienced investors, I think 
Barclays warnings would have carried significant weight with Mr and Mrs W. I think the 
warnings would have at least led to Mr and Mrs W looking into the cryptocurrency 
investment company further. And that, if theyd done this, the scam wouldve become 
apparent and they wouldnt have made that payment, or any further payments.
So if Barclays had carried out additional checks before processing the £3,499.68 payment, 
as I think it should have, I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have lost the money from that 
payment or any of the later payments.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs W should bear some responsibility for their loss. But I 
dont think it would be fair for them to do so. This was a sophisticated scam, they had 
contact with the cryptocurrency investment company over a period of time and they were 
sent a link to view their investments which made it look as if they were making money as 
they expected. And while Mr and Mrs W could have done further checks into the company 
themselves before Barclays involvement, they werent experienced investors and so I dont 
think it would be fair to say they were grossly negligent or had acted unreasonably in not 
doing so.
So I think Barclays should refund the full amount of the £3,499.68 payment, and all the later 
payments, to Mr and Mrs W.
As Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have lost this money if Barclays had done more, theyve now 
been without that money for a period of time. So I also think Barclays should pay them 
compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year on the refunded payments from the 
date they were paid until the date they are refunded.
Barclays has also offered to pay Mr and Mrs W £25 as compensation for the delays in 
responding to their letters. And I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part. My decision is 
that Barclays Bank UK PLC should
Refund Mr and Mrs W the £3,499.68 payment, and all the later payments
Pay 8% simple interest a year on those refunds, from the time of the payments until 
the time they are refunded
Pay Mr and Mrs W £25 compensation
HM Revenue & Customs may require Barclays to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mr and 
Mrs W. If it does, and if Mr and Mrs W request it, Barclays should provide them with a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman