DRN-2520070
The complaint
Mr L complains about unauthorised attempts to gain access to his Clear Score Technology 
Limited online account. Mr L says Clear Score failed to investigate appropriately or take 
action after someone else tried to gain access to his account. 
What happened
Last summer, Mr L received multiple text messages from Clear Score after someone used 
his email address and attempted to gain access to his online account. Clear Scores text 
messages included a code that has to be entered to complete the account access process. 
Clear Score has confirmed that, as the code wasnt input, Mr Ls online account (and credit 
file) wasnt accessed by a third party. 
Mr L complained to Clear Score but it didnt agree it had made any errors. Clear Score said 
its security process had worked to stop a third party gaining access to his account. Clear 
Score also said it couldnt provide specific information concerning the details of the third 
party. In addition, Clear Score said it had referred the issue to the security team and been 
advised that the issue was isolated, with no other similar attempts to access his account 
found. Clear Score gave advice about how Mr L could help strengthen the security of his 
account and details of a free service it offers to help provide additional protection. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Clear Score had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr L 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr L is concerned that a third party tried to access his Clear Score account and the 
private information on his credit file. And I appreciate that receiving multiple text messages 
from Clear Score caused some distress. Whilst I accept the situation was concerning, I 
havent found anything to show Clear Score made a mistake, gave access to Mr Ls credit 
file to a third party or treated him unfairly when it looked at what happened. 
I think its reasonable to note that the third party didnt gain access to the information on Mr 
Ls credit file because Clear Scores security process worked as it was designed to. Clear 
Score explains it has a two stage process which, in this case, worked to protect Mr Ls 
account. Im satisfied the information provided shows no unauthorised access was gained by 
a third party and that Mr Ls information wasnt compromised. 
Whilst this was a distressing situation, I havent found that Clear Scores actions were 
responsible for what happened. I appreciate someone tried to use Mr Ls details to gain 
account access which is in itself frustrating, but Im satisfied Clear Score systems meant the 
impact on Mr L was limited. As Ive said above, the security process meant the third party 
didnt gain access to Mr Ls online account. 
Mr L has told us he feels Clear Scores investigation was inadequate. But I can see his 
concerns were referred to its security team to look into. Clear Scores final response 
explained what had happened and how the online account was protected from access. Clear 
Score also told Mr L that this was an isolated incident with no evidence someone had tried to 
gain access to his online account on other dates. Clear Score says it couldnt provide details 
of the third party and I accept thats the case. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but the 
information Ive seen shows Clear Score took Mr Ls concerns seriously and that it 
investigated what happened. I note Clear Scores final response gave Mr L some additional 
pointers on how to help improve his account security which was a reasonable approach. 
I can see Mr L had to contact Clear Score about what happened which caused some 
inconvenience. But I dont think its fair to tell Clear Score to pay Mr L compensation based 
on the information Ive seen. Im satisfied Clear Scores processes meant Mr Ls details 
werent accessed. Im also satisfied that it took reasonable steps to investigate what 
happened and provided a clear explanation to Mr L. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but as Im 
satisfied Clear Score dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman