DRN-3098399
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs O acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs O. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 79,000 miles so I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs in the first six months we are to assume it 
was present when the car was supplied; the point at which MotoNovo are responsible for its 
quality. 
The engine failure on Mrs Os car was identified in April, four months after the car was 
supplied and after Mrs O had completed only 3,315 miles in the car. 
So, it was for MotoNovo to demonstrate the fault wasnt present from inception. The 
independent inspection they commissioned suggested that the damage to the engine was 
caused by oil starvation. It was the inspectors view that as it was the consumers duty to 
check oil levels, the responsibility for the failure should be shouldered by Mrs O. The 
inspector couldnt identify any major oil leaks and noted the quality of the remaining oil was 
poor.
I dont think the inspector has taken proper account of the very short length of time the car 
had been in Mrs Os possession; the limited mileage she had completed and, most 
importantly, the fact that an oil service had been completed shortly before Mrs O took receipt 
of the car. With that evidence in mind I think it would be unfair to hold Mrs O responsible for 
the failure. I dont think its fair to suggest that within only four months (perhaps less) and 
3,315 (perhaps less) miles the cars oil would have depleted that much or that Mrs O should 
have noticed it. I think its most likely this fault had been developing in the car when she took 
receipt of it.
  
Putting things right
The relevant legislation explains that a business should be allowed one opportunity to repair 
a fault that is present at the point of supply. But here I dont think that is a cost-effective 
solution. The relevant legislation also says that the repair should be completed in a 
reasonable time and Mrs O has been kept waiting since March. I think the fairest resolution 
would therefore be to allow Mrs O to reject the car.
MotoNovo should therefore arrange for the cars collection and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs O paid and they should add interest to that refund as 
Mrs O has been deprived of the money. The finance agreement shows the deposit as £500.
Mrs O was able to drive the car before it failed catastrophically and its fair she pays for that 
use. But the car hasnt been driveable since 13 March 2021 so MotoNovo should refund any 
finance instalments Mrs O may have paid since that point and theyll need to add interest to 
that refund.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
allow Mrs O to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs O;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid since 13 March 2021 and add 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Os credit file in relation to 
this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman