DRN-3669616
The complaint
Mrs R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) are holding her solely 
responsible for the repayment of an overdraft on a joint account. She also complains they 
failed to support her during times of financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mrs R opened a joint account with Mr R in 1996. It had an arranged overdraft limit of £2,500. 
They separated in 2017. As a result, Mrs R said her personal and financial circumstances 
changed significantly. 
Between July and October 2019, Halifax sent letters stating the overdraft had been 
exceeded and if action wasnt taken, the account would be closed and transferred to their 
recoveries team. In response, Mrs R advised she was experiencing financial difficulties and 
asked for the balance to be written off due to medical reasons. The account was transferred 
to Halifaxs vulnerable consumers team. They agreed to temporarily stop the daily overdraft 
fees. They asked for medical evidence but this wasnt received. They also said they had 
made attempts to speak to Mrs R but they were unsuccessful in doing so.  
A formal demand letter was sent in May 2020 stating the full balance of £2,693 had to be 
paid otherwise the account would be defaulted. As no payment was received, a default was 
applied around July 2020. The account was passed to the recoveries team in September 
2020.
Mr R entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) in August 2021. In turn, Halifax 
said Mrs R was solely liable for the debt. Mrs R complained. She didnt believe that was fair 
and she was unhappy Halifax never responded to her letters regarding her financial difficulty. 
Halifax accept they shouldve started the default proceedings sooner given they were made 
aware of Mrs Rs financial difficulties. To put things right, they said they would backdate the 
default to November 2019 and pay £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
They also confirmed all interest and charges from August 2019 were refunded. 
They said as per the terms and conditions, both parties were liable for the debt balance until 
it was repaid. However as Mr R had entered into an IVA, he was removed from the account 
meaning Mrs R was fully liable for the debt. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs R referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded Halifax had acted fairly by 
backdating the default, refunding charges and paying some compensation. They said, based 
on the terms, Halifax could hold Mrs R solely liable for the debt.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive referred to the terms and conditions regarding joint accounts. It says:
You are each, separately, responsible for complying with the terms of this agreement. If any 
one of you does not comply, we can take action against any or all of you
It also says:
Both people are responsible for any debts  such as the overdraft  and fees on the 
account. This means we can choose to claim the money from either person.
This means, Mrs R and her ex-partner, Mr R, are joint and severally liable for the account 
balance. Meaning Halifax can ask either her, Mr R or both of them to repay the debt. Mrs R 
believes they should be held equally liable (50/50). While I can understand why she feels 
that way, the terms dont say that must happen. 
Based on the evidence provided, I can see the balance of the account was above the agreed 
overdraft limit for some time. Ive seen copies of the letters that were sent about it and 
Halifaxs request for payment. They were sent as separate letters to both parties at the same 
address. Given the circumstances, I find Halifax acted fairly by sending the same and their 
communication was clear about the status of the account and what actions were needed.
Halifaxs system notes confirm Mrs R contacted them to say she was experiencing financial 
difficulty and she could no longer afford the daily overdraft fees. There is no indication, Mr R 
responded to these letters. 
In instances of financial difficulty, I expect financial businesses such as Halifax to treat their 
consumers with forbearance and due consideration as outlined in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Theres not a defined list as to 
what supportive measures should be applied but it may include accepting reduced 
payments, waiving interest, applying a payment deferral, etc. In this case, Halifax agreed to 
apply a 30 day hold on the account in July 2019 meaning no interest or charges would be 
applied during that time. This was later extended on more than one occasion. 
To get a better understanding of Mrs Rs financial circumstances, Halifax carried out an 
income and expenditure assessment to review her incoming and outgoing expenses. They 
found she had no disposable income so I can understand why they were unable to set up a 
repayment plan given this situation. 
Given Mrs Rs circumstances, the account was transferred to their vulnerable consumers 
team. She asked for the debt to be written off due to grounds of health.  Halifax asked for 
medical evidence so they could consider her request and I find it was reasonable for them to 
do so. They applied an additional 30 day hold for Mrs R to provide the same however there 
is no evidence this information was received.
Thereafter, they sent letters chasing the additional information to the address held on file. 
According to their records, they also tried to call Mrs R but they were unable to speak to her. I acknowledge Mrs Rs comments that she preferred communication in writing due to 
personal reasons but I cant see she ever made that clear to Halifax so I cant say they did 
anything wrong by trying to call her to discuss the situation. 
Given the lack of response from either party and the returned letters, I can understand why 
Halifax believed they had lost contact with Mrs R. Based on their system notes, they couldnt 
trace neither her nor Mr R. This may be due to both or either party moving address but as 
mentioned by the investigator, its the responsibility of the consumer to update their contact 
details.
Having reviewed the evidence, I can see Halifax had taken steps to engage and provide 
financial support to Mrs R. This included extended 30 day holds and they were willing to 
consider her request for write off. So I cant agree with her comments that they never 
responded to her letters and they never helped her, I find they did. Overall, Im satisfied 
Halifax acted fairly by communicating with Mrs R about the account and they made 
reasonable steps in providing financial assistance. 
As Halifax hadnt heard from either party for several months, the account balance remained 
over the overdraft limit and there was no indication either party were able to make payments, 
they decided to take further action by initiating default proceedings. Given the 
circumstances, I consider this course of action reasonable. 
Formal demand letters were sent in May 2020 to both parties outlining what was required. 
As no payment was received to satisfy the default by the deadline, I cant say Halifax did 
anything wrong by doing what they said they would do which is default the account and 
transfer it to their recoveries team. Im aware Mrs R sent a letter to them in September 2020 
to say her financial circumstances had changed and to let them know of her new address, 
but this was after the account had already defaulted.  
However as it was clear from around July 2019 that Mrs R was in financial difficulty and Mr R 
wasnt responding to Halifaxs letters, I agree the default proceedings shouldve been 
initiated earlier than May 2020. By doing so, it wouldve stopped all interest and charges 
meaning the debt wouldnt have increased. Halifax accept they shouldve started this 
process sooner. 
Based on the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), it says 
defaults can be recorded when a consumer is at least three months behind in payments and 
its expected to be in place by the sixth month. On that basis, I believe Halifax acted fairly in 
backdating the default to the earliest opportunity (November 2019), that is around three 
months from when Mrs R reported her financial difficulties and said she couldnt make the 
repayments. As already mentioned, by defaulting an account, interest and charges are 
stopped. In this case, Halifax has confirmed all interest and charges from August 2019 had 
been removed. By doing the same, Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly. Theyve tried to put Mrs 
R as close to the position she wouldve been had they defaulted the account sooner. They 
also paid her £50 compensation which I consider fair in the circumstances.
Mr R entered into an IVA in August 2021 and as a result Halifax removed him from the 
account and is holding Mrs R solely liable for the outstanding debt. Ive thought about Mrs 
Rs comments that had Halifax acted sooner, any repayment plans couldve been set up with 
joint and equal liability before Mr R entered into an IVA. While I recognise Mrs Rs strength 
of feeling about this, for the reasons already explained above, Halifax can hold both or either 
party liable. So I cant say with any certainty Halifax wouldve evenly split liability. Nor can I 
say whether this debt shouldve or couldve been subject to his IVA. As Mr R became 
insolvent, I dont find Halifax acted wholly unreasonable by saying Mrs R is solely liable for 
the debt. Ive carefully considered what Mrs R has said about her personal and financial 
circumstances at the time, including her health and her ongoing obligations to her family. I 
recognise this wouldve been a difficult time for her. For the reasons explained above, Im 
satisfied they provided support during her time of financially difficulty and they had taken 
reasonable steps to engage with her about the same. I also find Halifax acted fairly in 
defaulting the account and based on the terms, they can hold her solely responsible for the 
outstanding debt. 
Nevertheless, I empathise for the situation Mrs R now finds herself in. I wish to remind 
Halifax that if she is still experiencing financial difficulty, I expect them to treat her with 
forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman