DRN-2102215
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) 
treated her during a period of financial difficulty.
What happened
In December 2017 Ms M opened an account with Very. At this time she purchased a 
television under a Buy Now Pay Later scheme, under which no interest would be incurred if 
the purchase price was repaid in full by January 2019.
As Ms M hadnt repaid the balance in full by January, Very contacted her to confirm interest 
would be charged and a regular monthly payment of around £30 would be payable.
Ms M made the monthly payment successfully until October 2019 when a payment was 
missed and a £12 fee was incurred. She contacted Very at the end of this month by email to 
explain shed been made redundant and asked if they would accept a reduced monthly 
repayment of £5.
Very responded to Ms Ms request four working days later and asked her to complete an 
income and expenditure form. She completed and returned this the same day. Two working 
days after it was returned, Very tried to call Ms M to discuss her circumstances, but she 
didnt answer. She emailed Very that day and asked it not to call her as English was her 
second language and she felt more comfortable communicating in writing. Despite this, it 
attempted to contact her by phone three times in the following few days.
A few days later Very again sent Ms M an income and expenditure form to complete. She 
replied immediately and explained shed already done this. Very responded the same day 
and confirmed that:
It was unable to offer any repayment plan as her income and expenditure showed 
she had no surplus income to support this
She could continue to make payments to the account in the meantime, but it was 
likely a default would soon be reported on her credit file and the account may be sold 
to third party
It would suspend interest and charges
It provided details of a debt advice charity and encourage her to contact them for 
further support
After it had agreed to suspend interest and charges, two charges were applied to the 
account in December 2019 and February 2020. Very recognised the February 2020 charge 
was applied in error and reversed this but the December 2019 charge remained.
Ms M was unhappy with this response and continued to contact Very to ask it to consider 
entering into a payment plan with her. Very didnt discuss her payment arrangement further 
but treated her further correspondence as a formal complaint and let her know it was 
investigating this. 
It was unable to answer Ms Ms complaint within eight weeks, so she brought it to our 
service to consider. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. Whilst they didnt feel Very 
had acted unreasonably in relation to her financial difficulties, they felt some of the customer 
service shed received hadnt been sufficient and a charge had been unfairly applied in 
December 2019.
Very accepted the investigators findings. It agreed to reverse the December 2019 charge 
and to make a payment of £100 to recognise the insufficient customer service. Ms M didnt 
accept this. She maintained Very had treated her unfairly and felt it should right off the entire 
debt in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. As she didnt 
accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Very handle Ms Ms financial difficulties fairly?
When Ms M informed Very of a change in her financial circumstances it was obliged to 
engage with her positively to explore possible solutions. Something it shouldve considered 
as part of this was whether a reduced repayment plan was suitable. But it didnt have to 
agree to one if it didnt feel it was affordable to her.
The income and expenditure information Ms M gave Very showed she had £10 left each 
month after essential bills were paid. Its not clear if the essential bills included the cost of 
food, but even if it did, a surplus of £10 doesnt leave much room for additional expenses like 
clothing, increases in existing bills or other unexpected costs that sometimes occur. So I 
dont think her income and expenditure reflects the £5 monthly payment shed offered was 
affordable long term. Based on this, I think Very acted reasonably in not accepting this 
proposal.
This didnt mean it had no further obligation to her and I think it was appropriate for Very to 
suspend charges and interest when it did. After it agreed to do this, charges were applied to 
the account on two occasions. Very has reversed the charge applied in February 2020 and I 
think it should also reverse the charge applied in December 2019 as this was after the 
suspension was in place.
Around six months after Ms M started missing payments a default notice was issued. As her 
financial circumstances had unfortunately not changed, I think it was reasonable for Very to 
take this action at this time. Part of Ms Ms complaint is that Very didnt accept her offer of a 
reduced payment plan. But, as I say, it wasnt obliged to do so and ultimately, she wasnt 
able to meet her contractual payment. The default was delayed for someone months, 
seemingly to allow a reasonable amount of time for Ms Ms circumstances to improve and for 
her to bring her account back in order/out of arrears. But I dont think Very shouldve let the 
situation continue indefinitely as this may not have benefitted her in the long term.
Ms M has said Very reduced the spending limit on the account during this period and she 
was charged more interest as a result. The interest incurred is calculated based on what she 
actually owes which didnt change when the limit was reduced. So she wasnt charged more 
as a result of this reduction. As Very was aware the existing borrowing wasnt affordable to 
Ms M, Im satisfied it was acting reasonably in taking action to prevent the debt from 
increasing. 
Could Very have provided better customer service?I can see throughout the course of discussing her financial circumstances with Very there 
have been times when it couldve provided a better service to Ms M. 
I dont think its unreasonable it took several days to respond to emails, even when 
Ms M was chasing this. Whilst I acknowledge Ms M was proactively trying to make 
repayment arrangements and she wanted this to happen as soon as possible, she wasnt 
Verys only customer. When sending requests via email, I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect you might not receive an immediate response. Im also satisfied they ultimately gave 
her enough information about why they werent able to accept her offer of reduced payment 
and explained the same day they declined the offer that it didnt appear to be affordable.
But Very shouldnt have tried to call her when she asked it not to. It also shouldnt have 
asked her to send a completed income and expenditure form when it already had this. Ms M 
has said she feels Very should write off the debt in recognition of the stress this caused her 
and I have no doubt it wouldve caused her additional worry at an already difficult time. But 
Im satisfied the debt is owed and so I think its fair for Very to expect repayment of it. Taking 
into account the customer service she received overall, I think a payment of £100 is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) should:
Reverse the charge of £11.62 showing on the December 2019 account statement
Pay Ms M £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman