DRN-4493080
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) rejected his claims 
under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product purchased in 
January 2008. I gather the purchase was made by Mr and Mrs A, but as the finance 
agreement was in Mr As name he is the eligible complainant. In this decision for simplicity I 
will refer to Mr A as the sole purchaser.
What happened
Mr A and his wife have made a number of purchases of holiday products. While on holiday in 
2008 Mr A says he was approached by a representative of a company I will call S. As a 
result he purchased another holiday product at a cost of £25,000 funded by a loan from BPF. 
This loan was repaid by January 2015.
In July 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to BPF. It said the product had been mis-sold as 
Mr A had been told it was an investment and he had been pressurised. PR said a proper 
affordability check had not been carried out and Mr A had not been told of any commissions 
which may have been paid. It said this made the agreement unfair. It also said that S had 
ceased trading.
In September 2021 PR brought a complaint on behalf of Mr A to this service. Our 
investigator asked for further information from BPF and it said it was considering a refund for 
a later purchase, but that the claim relating to this one was out of time. Our investigator 
concluded the claims had been made out of time.
PR didnt agree and made a detailed submission. Much of this related to the merits of the 
claim, but it also addressed the issue of whether the time limit for the claims could be 
extended. It said S had not supplied clear information about its status and domicile. PR went 
on to say the product had been misrepresented as an investment. It made general 
comments about the activities of S and said much of the reality of the market had been kept 
from Mr A. It referenced Mr As age and said he would not be able to obtain the full benefit of 
the contract. PR said the maintenance fees and interest rate made the purchase a liability.
PR argued that there was an unfair relationship under s.140A CCA. It suggested this began 
with earlier loans and continued with subsequent ones. It said Mr A didnt know Ss business 
model contravened European law and was based on improbably optimistic assumptions. It 
said this concealment was similar to that in Potter v Canada Square Operations and the 
limitation period did not begin until Mr A discovered these facts.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
The misrepresentation claims under s.75 CCA
PR says that S misrepresented the nature of the membership to Mr A when he bought it and 
that he has a claim for misrepresentation against S. Under s.75 CCA, BPF could be jointly 
liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by S.
But BPF says that any claim brought by Mr A for any alleged misrepresentations was made 
too late. Ive considered that argument and, having done so, agree with what BPF has said. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not decided whether the limitation period has expired as that 
would be a matter for the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, Ive considered 
whether BPF has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under 
s 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the 
LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued (s 2 LA).
Here Mr A brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 CCA. The limitation period for the 
corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. As 
noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) 
the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to the supplier, including that of 
limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's right to repayment is so closely 
connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the 
debtor may assert a right of set-off in diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the 
creditor, and as a defence in proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter- 
claim). Any attempt to exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and 
would in any case fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])
Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr W entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of S and suffered a loss. He says, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, he would not have bought the timeshare. And it was on 
that day that he suffered a loss, as he took out the loan agreement with BPF that he was 
bound to and would have never taken out but for the misrepresentations. It follows, 
therefore, that the cause of action accrued in January 2008, so Mr A had six years from then 
to bring a claim. But he didnt make a claim against BPF until July 2021, which was outside 
of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think BPF acted fairly in not accepting his 
misrepresentation claim.
The breach of contract claim under s.75 CCA
PR has said that the S became insolvent and that was a breach of contract. However, as I 
understand it this purchase was disposed of before that happened and BPF has agreed to 
pay proportionate redress for the subsequent purchase. As such this is not something I can 
consider in this complaint.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under s.140B CCA in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but this 
is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Mr A made his claim to BPF in July 2021. But the loan account closed either in January 2010 
or January 2015, so over six years from the date a claim was first made.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB)1 that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because 
the claim Mr A wishes to make it for repayment of sums he has paid to the loan, which is an 
action for sums recoverable under statute, to which s.9 LA applies. That means Mr A would 
have to bring an action within six years of January 2015 at the latest. As he didnt do that, I 
think he brought his claim too late.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Ive considered 
the facts of this complaint and I dont think the time limits Ive set out above can be extended 
under any of the provisions of the LA. Ive considered several reasons specifically raised in 
more detail.
I have been asked to consider s.32 LA. The relevant parts of that provision read:
(1)where in the case of any action for which a period of limitation is prescribed by this Act, 
either:
(a) the action is based upon the fraud of the defendant; or
(b) any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been deliberately concealed from him
by the defendant; or
(c) the action is for relief from the consequences of a mistake;the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff has discovered the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (as the case may be) or could with reasonable diligence have 
discovered it.
References in this subsection to the defendant include references to the defendants agent 
and to any person through whom the defendant claims and his agent.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above, deliberate commission of a breach of duty in 
circumstances in which it is unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate 
concealment of the facts involved in that breach of duty
In short, PR alleges that S marketed and sold the membership to Mr A as an investment, 
which was a breach of Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations. It says this breach 
was deliberate and falls under s.32(2) LA. It also argues that the fundamentals of the 
business were not disclosed which would have allowed Mr A to conclude it was not a viable 
business.
PR also say that Mr A was led to believe, by S, that the marketing of the membership as an 
investment was lawful. It would have been clear to S that the sale breached Regulation 
14(3), but this was hidden from Mr A. Further, PR points to the judgment in Canada Square 
Operations Ltd. v. Potter [2021] EWCA Civ 339, (Potter) that held that the creation of an 
unfair relationship under s.140A CCA can amount to a breach of duty and, for the purposes 
of s.32 LA, limitation does not run until the facts related to the unfair relationship could have 
been discovered with reasonable diligence.
Having considered what PR has said, there is nothing to make me think a court would 
conclude Mr A had longer to bring his claim than the time set out above, namely by January 
2021.
Potter concerned a claim in which the Defendant business had not disclosed to the Claimant
that it received a very large commission out of the sale of an insurance policy. It was held 
that the Defendants failure to disclose the amount could amount to a concealment for the 
purposes of s.32(1)(b) LA. Further, it was held that the concealment was deliberate and 
s.32(2) LA could apply to the claim.
But the issue in Mr As claim is very different to that in Potter. Here, Mr A alleges that S sold 
him membership as an investment. That was necessarily something he must have known at 
the time of the sale as either S sold membership to him as an investment or it didnt. Nothing 
about that part of the sales process was concealed from him as he says it was an 
inducement to take out membership.
Further, I cant see that Mr A was given any assurance that the way the membership was 
sold to him was in compliance of any regulation, rule or law. I appreciate that Mr A might not 
have realised at the time of sale that there was a prohibition on timeshare memberships 
being sold as investments, but not knowing that wouldnt extend the limitation period where 
he was aware of the underlying facts of the claim  namely that the timeshare was sold to 
him as an investment.
Nor do I consider that the claim that S would have known its business model was 
unsustainable at the time of sale has been demonstrated. The fact that it failed some years 
later does not show that the model was unsustainable in 2008. Indeed S continued trading 
for many years after that.
AffordabilityPR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mr A found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me 
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr A lost out as 
a result of its failings. Following the issue of our investigators view PR has made generic 
points about affordability, but has not provided evidence that they would have found, or did 
find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think BPF acted fairly in not accepting Mr As 
claims.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add and PR said Mr A didnt agree, but 
submitted no further evidence or arguments, nor did it say that it would supply anything 
further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments that would allow me to alter my 
provisional decision I can only conclude that this complaint should not be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman