DRN-3027877
The complaint
Mr D complains about delays in the transferring of his Junior ISA and that National Savings 
and Investments wont pay him interest from the date he feels it should.
Due to his age, Mr D is represented in this complaint by his father and it was his father who 
requested the transfer and was communicating with NS&I.  But, for clarity, Ill just refer to 
Mr D in my decision.
 
What happened
Mr D first requested the transfer of his Junior ISA from his previous provider to NS&I on 
6 June 2020. NS&I then wrote to him asking for a transfer authority form to be completed, 
and it appears NS&I received this form back around 23 June 2020. NS&I then wrote to the 
previous provider on 3 July 2020 asking for the funds to be transferred, but says the cheque 
from the previous provider wasnt received until 5 August 2020.
Mr D complained as his previous provider told him it had sent the cheque to NS&I on 16 July 
2020 and so, as NS&I had only started paying interest from 5 August 2020, hed lost out on 
the interest he should have earned between those two dates. He highlighted industry 
guidance which said interest should be paid by the new provider from the earlier of the date 
on the cheques from the previous provider or 16 days after the transfer authority forms were 
received. So he felt NS&I should have paid him interest from 14 July 2020, as this was 16 
days after the forms were received by NS&I.
NS&I investigated but said it had banked the cheque on the day it was received and had 
dealt with the transfer process within reasonable timescales and without excessive delay. So 
it didnt agree to change the date it had started paying interest. It did pay Mr Ds father £50 
for not acknowledging that it had received the funds from the previous provider. Mr D wasnt 
satisfied with NS&Is response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt it was unfair that NS&I had only 
paid interest from the date it received the cheque from the previous provider. They felt it 
would be fair for NS&I to pay interest from 16 July 2020, the day after the previous provider 
stopped paying interest, so that Mr D hadnt lost out on any days interest. NS&I agreed but 
Mr D disagreed, as he felt NS&I should pay interest from 14 July 2020, regardless of when 
the previous provider stopped paying interest. As Mr D didnt agree, the case has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NS&I has now agreed to pay interest on Mr Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020, Ive 
focused my decision on whether I think this offer is fair.
The rules about how this service makes decisions are set out in the Dispute Resolution rules 
(DISP)  which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules say 
that an ombudsman will take into account the law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
relevant codes of practice and what they consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. But it also says that the ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, 
in their opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Throughout his complaint with NS&I and his case with our service, Mr D has referred to 
industry guidance about the transfer of ISAs  most recently, suggested best practice 
guidance published by the government. And I recognise that this guidance says that interest 
on funds transferred as part of an ISA transfer should be backdated either to the date on the 
cheque, or to the date which represents day 16 of the transfer process, whichever is earlier.
But, in this case, Mr Ds previous provider paid interest on his ISA until 15 July 2020. So if 
NS&I was required to pay interest from day 16, which would be 14 July 2020, Mr D would 
have been paid interest by two different providers on the same funds for the same dates. 
And I dont think it would be fair for Mr D to be paid interest for this period twice or to require 
NS&I to pay this additional interest just because, in these circumstances, the guidance says 
it should. I think the fairest outcome would be for Mr D to be put in the position he would 
have been in had the ISA transfer been completed without delay  which would be for him to 
earn interest each day from NS&I after his previous provider stopped paying interest.
Mr D has been asked to provide evidence of the interest rate on the Junior ISA with his 
previous provider, in order to see whether he has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
interest for 14 and 15 July 2020 being paid by his previous provider rather than by NS&I. But 
hes refused to do so. So I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr D will suffer a financial 
loss as a result of NS&I paying interest from 16 July 2020.
As NS&I paying interest on Mr Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020 means it will have paid 
interest each day after his previous provider stopped, he wont have lost out on any days 
interest, and I havent seen anything to suggest he will have suffered a financial loss, I think 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
Mr D has made a number of further points about whether NS&I correctly followed its own 
protocols, on what basis it decided the date to pay interest from and whether it dealt with the 
complaint and awarded redress in line with its own guidance. But its not the role of this 
service to determine whether NS&I followed either internal or external guidance correctly, 
only to look at whether a customer has been treated fairly. And, for the reasons given above, 
I think the offer NS&I has made to pay interest on Mr Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020 is 
fair.
NS&I has paid Mr Ds father £50 for not acknowledging that it had received the funds from 
the previous ISA provider. As it is Mr D that is the complainant here, rather than his father, I 
cant require NS&I to pay Mr Ds father any further compensation. And as Mr Ds father has 
been representing him and communicating with NS&I on his behalf, and I can only make an 
award for distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr D himself, I dont think it would be fair 
to require NS&I to pay any further compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require National Savings and Investments tobackdate the interest paid on Mr Ds Junior ISA, so it is paid from 16 July 2020
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman