DRN-4225913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that First Title Insurance Plc rejected a claim on their Policy of Title 
Insurance.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs M were in the process of buying a new build property. The 
property was one of two houses being built on a plot of land.
Their solicitors advised them it would be better to wait for the local search to come in but 
asked them whether they wanted to do that or proceed without it and take out an indemnity 
policy. On 17 March 2021 Mr and Mrs M told the solicitors they wanted to proceed, with 
completion on 23 March, and take out the policy. Contracts were exchanged on 22 March, 
with completion to be the following day (23 March).
The solicitors received the Local Search on 23 March 2021 at 10.15am, but didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs M this. The purchase was completed at around 12.45pm after the other side confirmed 
receipt of the funds. The solicitors asked Mr M to pay the premium so they could activate the 
policy from that date. He confirmed to the solicitors that he had paid the premium in an email 
he sent at 1.21pm.
The solicitors issued the policy on 25 March, with the policy date backdated to 23 March 
2021.
In June 2021 Mr M contacted the solicitors saying he thought they might need to claim on 
the policy. He had discovered the builders were building a third property next to theirs. He 
was also unhappy that there was limited visibility when driving out onto the road due to a 
high hedge, and said the developer was in breach of the planning permission in relation to 
this. The solicitors sent him documents relating to the property, including the Local Search, 
which he hadnt seen until then.
In November 2021 Mr M notified First Title of a clam on the policy regarding two issues  
access to the property, and another house being built on the neighbouring plot.
First Title said it would not provide cover for either of these matters. Mr and Mrs M 
complained but First Title maintained its position. In brief, it says theres no cover for the 
following reasons:
In respect of access to the property, the planning permission was shown in the 
search, but the developers failure to comply with it would not have been shown 
unless it was the subject of a planning notice, which wasnt the case.
Although a fresh planning application had been made, that was some months later. A 
search cant disclose planning applications that dont exist at the date of the search. 
So they cant claim for this.
The solicitors had the search on 23 March 2021 and so were aware of the previous 
planning applications before the policy was issued. They acted on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs M who were imputed to be aware of what their solicitors knew, and the policy 
doesnt cover anything disclosed by the seller to the buyer or any previous search in 
the sellers possession. In addition, Mr and Mrs M had seen a plan of the site, which 
showed a proposed third house on the plot next to theirs, so they were aware of this.
Mr and Mrs M brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold the complaint but as my 
reasons were different from the investigators, I was giving the parties an opportunity to 
comment. I set out my reasons as follows:
The policy provides cover for any actual loss (which includes a reduction in the value of the 
property; any sums the insured has to pay as a result of a court order or settlement; or any 
loss incurred by the insured) as a result of any adverse circumstance that would have been 
revealed by the local search, or that existed at the policy date on the Local Authority Land 
Charges, Water Service Company and/or the Coal Authority registers.
Its designed to cover policyholders who buy a house before receiving the Local Search 
against something they would have been made aware of, if they had received the search. If, 
for example, the search showed up a valid planning permission for another property next 
door, this was only received after they completed their purchase, and they hadnt known 
about it, the policy might cover them for any loss caused by that.
But as with most insurance, there are conditions and limits on the cover provided. The policy 
is issued on the following basis:
The coverage for this Known Risk is provided based on the following assumptions: 
1. The owner is not aware of any matter that would give rise to a claim under the policy.
And the policy includes the following exclusion:
First Title will not be liable under the policy in respect of any loss arising from or relating to: 

4.4 any circumstances or allegations that are known to the Insured but not to First Title on or 
prior to the Policy Date;
Terms like this are not unusual in insurance policies, since the aim of insurance is generally 
to protect against a future risk, not something that the policyholder is already aware of when 
they take out the policy.
There were two issues Mr and Mrs M wished to claim for. Ill deal with each in turn. When 
doing so, Ive taken into account the policy terms and the requirement for insurers to deal 
with claims promptly and fairly, and not to reject a claim unreasonably.
Access to the property
Mr M has explained that the concerns about access relate to restricted visibility driving out 
onto the road. He says the developer didnt comply with conditions in the planning 
permission relating to access. However, the search would only have disclosed whether there 
were any relevant planning permissions; not whether they had been complied with fully  
unless this was the subject of a planning notice. There wasnt any such notice in this case. 
So the search would not have disclosed whether the developer was in breach.
That means this wouldnt be covered as its not something that would have been disclosed 
by the Search.The property on the neighbouring plot
Information about this was received by the solicitors on 23 March 2021, which is the date of 
policy. That means it was known before or on the policy date. I appreciate Mr M says they 
werent told about it, but the solicitor was their agent, so effectively had the information on 
their behalf.
The policy covers Mr and Mrs M for things that would have been disclosed by searches, if 
theyd been received. What the searches showed was that planning permission had been 
granted in the past for three properties to be built. But that permission had expired. So at the 
point when they completed the purchase of the property, there wasnt a valid planning 
permission. This means even if they had received the search earlier, this would not have 
been revealed as an adverse circumstance existing at that date. It was only around May 
2021 that the developer started work on that plot and  after objections were raised  
submitted a fresh planning application.
What the search would have made them aware of was that the developer had previously 
sought permission for three properties. Mr M has said the builder told them that wasnt the 
intention  and the sales particulars only referred to two properties. But the solicitors had 
been sent copies of the previous planning applications by the sellers solicitors. And 
documents on the solicitors conveyancing file include a plan of the site  signed by Mr and 
Mrs M  showing Future plot 1 next to their property. So they were aware there was a 
possible third property to be built at some point.
The policy provides cover for any adverse circumstances the policyholders dont know 
about, but would have been made aware of if they had received the Local Search. The 
adverse circumstance in this case is the fact a third property was to be built, which Mr M 
says would have affected their privacy and reduced the value of their home. The Local 
Search wouldnt have made them aware that there was a valid planning permission for this, 
since there wasnt at that point. What it would have revealed was that the builder had in the 
past sought permission for another property  and so might have this in mind. And they were 
already aware of that, as their solicitors had previously been sent copies of the earlier 
planning applications and they themselves had seen a plan showing the proposed third 
house.
Taking all these factors into account, I think the decision to decline the claim In these 
circumstances was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
Replies to the provisional decision
First Title says it agrees with the provisional decision and has no further comments. 
Mr and Mrs M dont agree and Mr M has made detailed comments. Some of the points are a 
repeat of those made previously but the additional points include:
The work on the third property wasnt done by the same builders  it was a different 
builder.
The planning decision of December 2021 confirms the earlier permission was still in 
force  it hadnt expired. But they werent aware at the time they bought their house.
Hes not sure why the provisional decision refers to the plan of the neighbouring 
property as this wasnt mentioned by First Title and wasnt part of their decision.
After they complained about the solicitors, the Legal Ombudsman said the solicitors 
actions seem reasonable. While the policy was taken out on 25 March 2021 it was 
backdated to provide cover from date of completion.
At no point was there any reference to a three property development.They signed the plan showing the third plot after they gave instructions to the 
solicitors to take out the policy. The plan showed plot 1 had previously been called 
plot 3. It referred to Future Plot 1 but plot 1 had already been built and there was no 
planning permission for any more houses. This document doesnt mean they were 
aware there would be a future development. They were never made aware of a third 
plot or of planning permission for a third plot.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the issue of access to the property, Ive seen nothing to change my view that the search 
would not have disclosed whether the developer was in breach, so this wouldnt be covered. 
Ive given further thought to the position regarding the property on the neighbouring plot, 
which is the focus of most of Mr Ms comments.
The position concerning the earlier planning permission seems contradictory. Mr M says the 
permission was still valid, though in correspondence in 2021 he said it had expired and this 
was confirmed by two different council officers. Ive seen correspondence confirming that, 
though other documents indicate it was still valid. Either way, what is clear is that planning 
permission had been granted for three houses. And that information was in the 
conveyancing file, having been sent to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors in February 2021.
Changes to the earlier permission approved by the council note that they concerned two of 
the three properties  plots 2 and 3. When the new application was submitted for the third 
house, the planning documents refer to this as being one of the three plots that were to be 
developed and note that The other two houses have been built. So it seems clear the 
intention was always to build three houses, with the remaining one to be built on plot 1.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were told their house was one of two. But as Ive said, the 
documents in the conveyancing file show there were intended to be three. Mr M has asked 
why the provisional decision refers to the plan of the neighbouring property and says this 
wasnt mentioned by First Title and wasnt part of their decision. Its relevant because it is 
evidence of what they knew at the time. It is consistent with the other documents in showing 
that plots 2 and 3 had been built, leaving the future plot 1 to be built. 
In its decision First Title referred to the plan, which accompanied the transfer deed and was 
signed by Mr and Mrs M, saying this shows they were aware of the intention for a new 
property to be built on Plot 1.
Mr and Mrs M and their solicitors were aware of plans to build three properties. Even if the 
builder who built their house had only built two, and even if the third house wasnt being built 
at that time, I think the evidence shows they were aware of plans to build a third.
On this basis it remains my view that it was reasonable to reject the claim since the policy 
would not provide cover where the owner was aware of something that would give rise to a 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman