DRN-3343213
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about the unarranged overdraft fees The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) applied to his account and that he is being contacted by debt collection agencies to 
recover the debt before his complaint has been resolved.
What happened
Mr F complained to RBS about the charges applied to his account when he went into 
unarranged overdraft and that he didnt receive all its letters regarding the management of 
his account. 
RBS said all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and that all letters sent to Mr F regarding his overdrawn account were sent to the 
address it held for him and if he didnt receive these it was through no fault of its own.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs concern and reached the conclusion RBS hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mr F has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account when he went into unarranged overdraft. But before I go any 
further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts 
RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at RBSs various charging structures or processes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr F if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Fs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr F was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where RBS didnt treat Mr F fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that RBS did treat Mr F unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Fs statements I cant see anything to suggest that RBS 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to RBS 
getting in touch with Mr F about his account becoming overdrawn.
Having looked at Mr Fs statements I can see his account with RBS was generally managed 
well with Mr F transferring enough funds into the account to cover the payments going out. 
So I cant say there is anything in the way Mr F was managing his account which ought to 
have alerted RBS to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did 
when Mr F went into unarranged overdraft. 
Mr Fs account became overdrawn in December 2019 when Mr F did not have enough of a 
credit balance to cover a debit card transaction. At this point RBS applied charges to his 
account in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  As Mr F failed to bring his 
account into credit RBS took action to by writing letters and texting Mr F explaining that his 
account was overdrawn and what steps he needed to take to correct it and what would 
happen if he didnt. As Mr F didnt bring his account into credit or take any action RBS closed 
Mr Fs account in September 2020 and passed it to recoveries.
Mr F says he didnt receive these letters, but I can see that that the address RBS held for Mr 
F was correct and while it is possible that letters sometimes arent delivered correctly  more 
often than not they are. And I havent been given any specific reason why the letters might 
not have arrived. So I think its likely Mr F wouldve at least received some of the letters and 
even if he didnt he was sent text messages as well as having access to online banking. So I 
think Mr F wouldve understood he was overdrawn and ultimately as it is his responsibility to 
manage his account he should have taken action and engaged with RBS. 
And because he didnt do this, I dont think RBS acted unfairly when it closed Mr Fs account 
and passed it to recoveries. Having followed its processes RBS were perfectly within its 
rights to close Mr Fs account and try and recoup any losses. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think RBS treated Mr F unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman