DRN-3403051
The complaint
Mr M has complained HSBC UK Bank plcs delay in getting his replacement debit card to 
him meant he had to spend more than €530 in transfer fees to get funds.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr M lost his debt card. HSBC agreed to send him a replacement card to 
his address overseas. A card was ordered on 14 October. Mr M was warned this could take 
14 days. Mr M didnt receive his card.
Mr M then had to work elsewhere and asked another card to be sent to his temporary 
address. A further card was ordered on 11 November. Again this wasnt received.
As Mr M didnt have his debit card, he felt he had to use a funds transfer company to get 
money to him with friends help. He wanted HSBC to refund the fees hed had to pay for this. 
This totalled €533.67.
HSBC said these transfers were not their responsibility and wouldnt be refunding the fees. 
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator explained the first transfer was made on 27 October and the second on 
4 November so within the time period HSBC had provided for getting his debit card to him 
without using a courier service. He didnt believe there was any basis for asking HSBC to 
refund those fees.
Mr M was dissatisfied with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I appreciate the problems Mr M had. Getting hold of his debit card came on top of being told 
by HSBC that he could continue to use his debit card details even though hed lost the 
physical card. This didnt turn out to be the case. I suspect this aggravated his feelings 
things werent going well.
The transfers were on 27 October and 4 November. By the second of these dates Mr M was 
planning to go elsewhere to work. So he wouldnt be at his home abroad to pick up any debit 
card that HSBC had ordered for him on 14 October. 
When the card was ordered, the evidence shows HSBC made it clear to Mr M that it may 
take 14 days for any card to arrive. Mr M doesnt dispute this. He was also then told that if 
the card hadnt arrived by 4 November it would only be then HSBC could look at arranging a 
courier for his debit card delivery.
Mr M felt he had no choice but to arrange a money transfer on 27 October. But I think there 
was always every chance that his replacement debit card was never going to be there on 
time. I dont think the choice he made could be considered HSBCs responsibility.
The same applies to the funds transfer on 4 November.
Mr M has explained to us why hes looking for more than €530 to be reimbursed, even 
though the transfer fees on the two individual payments were 100 and 150 dirhams. He 
believes he was obliged to use the fund transfer company he did. They charge a 
proportionately less favourable exchange rate than other options. 
Ive considered this and appreciate Mr M has told us he had no choice but to use this funds 
transfer company. I dont agree that the evidence Mr M has provided shows hes lost out to 
the tune of €530. In any case Im not convinced this should be for HSBC to make good.
Mr M had a few complaints running concurrently with HSBC. On this aspect I can see HSBC 
gave Mr M £75 for the information they provided him about the replacement card. I think this 
is fair.
I appreciate this all caused Mr M trouble but overall I dont see why it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask HSBC to reimburse Mr Ms fees.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman