DRN-1787555
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Ms B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Ms B opened a store card account in a shop in 1996. AXAs records show that the PPI was 
added to her account a few months later, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Ms Bs card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said that Ms B 
would have been entitled to12 months sick pay from her employer. And given this, he didn't 
think she needed the policy enough to make its benefits worth what it cost her. AXA 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms B 
and to AXA on 26 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
AXA isn't able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used around the 
time when the PPI was added to Ms Bs account. I didnt think that was 
unreasonable, given that this was so long ago. So I didnt know what was said to Ms 
B about the PPI. But based on what we know about the sales process, and given that 
PPI was added around six months after shed taken out her store card, I thought Ms 
B would have realised that the PPI wasn't compulsory. And I thought it was likely that 
she agreed to take the cover, knowing that she had a choice.
 
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Ms B. That meant it didn't have to check that it was 
right for her. It was for Ms B to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other 
means shed have had of making her store card repayments if she was off sick, or if 
she lost her job. But AXA did have a responsibility to give Ms B clear enough 
information to enable her to decide for herself whether the policy was right for her.
 Ms B has told us shed have been entitled to 12 months sick pay from her employer 
at the time. But based on our knowledge of these cases, that would be unusually 
generous for the type of employment Ms Bs told us she was in. Id seen a copy of 
the information Ms B gave AXA when she first brought her complaint. She sent it a 
copy of her employment contract. And she said her sick pay entitlement was as set 
out in the contract.
 
The contract provided for increased sick pay with increasing length of service. When 
she took out the PPI, Ms B had been with her employer for around two and a half 
years. At that stage, shed have been entitled to four months full sick pay, followed 
by four months half pay. The maximum sick pay provided for in the contract was six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay. But that was only after five years 
service.
 
If Ms B had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, 
or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at time of her claim had been 
repaid - whichever was the earliest.
 
So the policy would potentially have covered Ms B for longer than shed have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. What was more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Ms B received from her employer, allowing her to use those to cover other 
day-to-day expenses.
 
I acknowledged that Ms B says her husband was employed, and could have helped 
with her repayments if need be. But circumstances can change, and I couldnt be 
sure that Ms Bs husband would have been in a position to help if the need had 
arisen.
 
Taking everything into account, I thought the PPI policy could have provided a useful 
benefit to Ms B.
 
I accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasn't 
as clear as it should have been. But I was satisfied, on balance, that she chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looked as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now. She was eligible for the policy, and didnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main things it didn't cover (for example 
provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). And 
Id seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Ms B.
 
Taking everything into account, I wasnt convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Ms B off taking it out. So I didnt think shed lost out as a result of 
anything that AXA may have done wrong.
 
So based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint.
 further submissions
Neither Ms B nor AXA has provided any comments on my provisional decision, and the time 
for doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman