DRN-3362023
The complaint
Mr L complains Allianz Insurance Plc declined a claim he made for storm damage under his 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
When considering storm claims the three main issues we consider are: Was there a 
storm? Is the damage claimed for consistent with what a storm typically causes? 
And, was the storm the main cause of the damage.
Im satisfied the significant level of rainfall experienced at the time was sufficient 
enough for it to be considered a wet storm. So, the claim can be considered under 
the storm section of the policy. 
Mr L claimed for slipped and dislodged slates, which I accept, while relatively unusual 
on a well-maintained roof, could in theory become displaced with a significant level of 
rainfall. However, Mr L also claimed for repairs to flashing around the chimney. Given 
this was a wet storm without the associated high winds, I wouldnt usually expect 
flashing to be damaged by high rain levels. 
When considering the third question  was the storm the main cause of the damage, 
there is contradictory evidence on file.  Allianz argues via expert reports and photos, 
that the roof was in poor condition prior to the storm and therefore that was the main 
cause of the damage. Mr L has said the roof was repaired a year before, after 
another storm event and it was therefore watertight.
Where evidence is contradictory like this, I have to make a decision, on the balance 
of probability, which version of events I am more persuaded by. So, what I think more 
likely than not happened in the circumstances. 
Allianz has provided photos of the roof to evidence its position, however Mr L has 
said they were taken after temporary repairs were completed so are irrelevant  
however I disagree with Mr L here. I believe the photos, which show dislodged and 
broken slates in various places across the roof speaks to its general condition and its 
deterioration over time. Where slates have moved, it is evident that has happened 
over time as there is evidence of weathering of the exposed tiles beneath. The 
pictures also show cracking to the chimney and the quality of the flashings, which 
dont appear to be new damage. 
While the issues with the roof slates doesnt necessarily mean the roof wasnt 
watertight, I agree with Allianz here that increases the possibility that it wasnt and 
therefore it was unable to withstand the level of rainfall that occurred. Repairs may 
have taken place on each previous occasion, but they would have only been 
localised to the particular area of concern at that time. So, Im not persuaded a year 
on from the last repair the roof, in all certainty, could be deemed to be watertight.
Im mindful there have been several events of ingress of water from the roof, 
reportedly due to storm damage over the last few years. Again, I think this speaks to 
the fact that rather than the storm itself being responsible for the damage  it simply 
served to highlight existing issues with the deterioration of the roof. 
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded the damage to the roof was mainly 
caused by the storm that was present. So, I dont think Allianz has applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy unfairly.
Allianz has considered the water ingress to the property under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. And, I think it has provided sufficient evidence which 
suggests the internal damage is also excluded under the policy term which covers 
damage caused by wear and tear and gradual deterioration. 
For the reasons above, I think Allianz has applied the terms of the policy fairly when 
declining the claim, so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman