DRN-3953367
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined his application to port (transfer) his 
mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage. Mr M had to take out a mortgage with 
another lender, and he wants Santander to reimburse the early repayment charge (ERC) of 
£12,862.47 he paid when his Santander mortgage was redeemed.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2020, after taking advice from his own independent financial adviser, Mr M took out a 
mortgage with Santander. He borrowed Just under £428,000 on an interest-only basis over a 
term of 15 years. The mortgage was on a fixed rate until 2 March 2022. If the mortgage was 
repaid before then, an ERC would be payable. The mortgage offer states that the loan is 
only available up to a maximum 60% loan-to-value (LTV). The mortgage offer also states 
that the mortgage is portable, subject to meeting Santanders porting conditions and its 
lending criteria, and conditional on passing an affordability assessment.
In April 2021 Mr M applied for a new mortgage with Santander, through his own independent 
financial adviser. Mr M wanted to buy a new property for £850,000, port his existing 
mortgage balance of £850,000 and take out additional borrowing of £86,500. Mr M intended 
to retain the property hed mortgaged to Santander in 2020, and take out a buy-to-let 
mortgage on it.
Santander declined the application on the basis of affordability. Mr M had to arrange a 
mortgage with another lender, and on redemption of his Santander mortgage he paid an 
ERC of £12,862.47. 
Mr M complained to Santander. He thought the bank had treated him unfairly, and argued 
that there were no affordability issues. Santander didnt uphold the complaint so Mr M 
brought it to our service.
Initially the investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, as she (mistakenly) believed 
Mr M was applying for a like-for-like port of the mortgage interest rate product, and so 
Santander didnt need to assess affordability. However, Santander clarified that Mr M was, in 
fact, asking for an increase in his mortgage borrowing. As such, Santander said it was 
entitled to assess affordability. After considering this, the investigator agreed with Santander 
and so didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. Mr M said that he didnt 
need to borrow any more money and could have made up the difference from his savings. 
Mr M says that, by refusing his application, Santander made him a mortgage prisoner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Ill explain that Mr M was not a mortgage prisoner. The FCA defines mortgage 
prisoners as borrowers who have mortgages in closed books with inactive firms and has 
identified 195,000 mortgage accounts where the borrowers could potentially benefit by 
moving to an active lender. Mr M is not in this category, because Santander is an active 
lender. He was not, therefore, a mortgage prisoner.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aim at 
protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
However, Mr M wanted to increase his borrowing. Therefore Im satisfied Santander was 
entitled to carry out an affordability assessment. I should clarify here that my remit is to 
decide whether Santander has acted fairly  not to re-assess the application or substitute my 
own lending decision for that of Santander. 
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. The decisions Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are discretionary matters 
for Santanders own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Santander has provided us with information about its lending criteria and about what was 
taken into account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this information 
as confidential, because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering it, Im satisfied 
that Santander reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, 
including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr Ms specific 
circumstances. 
Mr M has suggested that he didnt need to borrow any additional funds and so could have 
ported only the amount outstanding on the mortgage. However, Mr M had his own 
independent financial adviser acting for him. It was their role to give Mr M advice about his 
mortgage options which would, I assume, have included advising him about increasing the 
deposit from his own resources. Santander was entitled to assess the application that was 
made to it, and it was never suggested to Santander by Mr Ms financial adviser that Mr M 
only needed to port the amount of the existing mortgage with no extra borrowing.Even after Mr Ms mortgage broker appealed the decision, Santander wasnt able to agree 
the application. I appreciate this was disappointing for Mr M, but Im satisfied that Santander 
gave fair consideration to this application and, having done so, was entitled to decline it. This 
means that there is no basis upon which I can find that Santander has treated Mr M unfairly 
or unreasonably. It follows that I am satisfied Santander isnt required to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman