DRN-3943771
The complaint
Mr A, via a representative, complains that £2,200 has been withdrawn from his account with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) which he says wasnt him, and that it 
hasnt refunded this.
What happened
Mr A is disputing the withdrawal of £2,200 on 15 March 2022. 
Mr A and his representative had initially queried withdrawals of £500 and £2,000 on 1 March 
2022 as well. But Mr A has since made it clear that hes only disputing the withdrawal on 15 
March 2022. 
Mr A doesnt feel that Halifax has provided sufficient information to prove that he made the 
withdrawal; Halifax doesnt have CCTV footage or the withdrawal slip. And Mr A said that the 
withdrawal goes against his usual routine.
Halifax said Mr A withdrew the £2,200 in question at the counter using chip and PIN with no 
incorrect PIN attempts. It also said Mr A signed a withdrawal slip, though it has since been 
unable to find this slip. It said it spoke to the branch colleague who carried out the 
transaction and they recalled serving Mr A. 
Mr A is confident that no one else knew the PIN for the card used and that it wasnt written 
down anywhere. He hasnt alleged the card to have been lost or stolen at any point.
The same card was used in transactions before this one (the abovementioned withdrawal on 
1 March 2022) and afterwards too (22 March 2022).
Our investigator considered this complaint. He couldnt see a viable way in which a third 
party would have been able to obtain Mr As card and PIN, use it and then return the card to 
Mr A without him knowing. So, he concluded that Mr A authorised the withdrawal of £2,200 
on 15 March 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know Mr A is likely to be disappointed, I dont uphold this complaint and Im satisfied 
Halifax has acted reasonably in holding Mr A liable for the disputed transaction. Ill explain 
why. But, before doing so, Id just point out that while I may not comment on everything 
thats been raised, Ive read and considered the evidence and arguments from both sides. 
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs). The PSRs set out when a customer should be held liable for transactions which 
happen on their account and when they shouldnt. The starting position is that a customer is 
liable for authorised transactions and a bank is liable if theyre unauthorised. And where 
theres a dispute about whether a customer has authorised the transactions or not, the bank 
would be expected to provide evidence as to why theyre holding their customer liable.
My role is to weigh up the information made available to me by Mr A and Halifax and decide 
whether I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to hold Mr A liable for the disputed 
transaction. I must decide what I think is more likely to have happened based on the 
evidence Ive seen.
In this case, Halifax has been able to evidence that, in order to make the withdrawal of 
£2,200, the card and PIN were used. 
Mr A hasnt disputed that he had the card in his possession before the disputed transaction  
having used it on 1 March 2022. Nor has he disputed that he had the card in his possession 
after the disputed transaction. He hasnt alleged at any point that he was without it. And he 
also hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone else. 
So, I cant see that theres been a point of compromise in which someone else would have 
been able to intercept Mr As card. I cant see how they would have obtained his PIN. And I 
also cant see how the card would have then been returned to him without him knowing.
I have weighed up Mr As testimony and I know he feels very strongly about this complaint, 
and that it wasnt him that withdrew this money. But Im conscious that he also disputed 
another large withdrawal in March and then later recalled that this was in fact him. So, he 
has provided inconsistent recollections about branch withdrawals before. And the evidence 
in this case does suggest it was him  considering no one else knew his PIN and he still had 
his card afterwards.
Ill just comment briefly on some discrepancies around Halifaxs recollections of Mr A. 
Halifaxs branch staff provided information about Mr As appearance and personal 
characteristics which dont marry up with what Mr A and his representative have told us to be 
the case. While I can appreciate this will have caused some confusion to Mr A, I dont 
consider this to fundamentally change anything. The characteristics in question are 
somewhat subjective  and they dont negate the use of Mr As actual card, which seemingly 
remained in his possession, and PIN.
So, based on all the evidence provided, I think its more likely than not that Mr A carried out 
the transaction. And for this reason, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Halifax to 
hold Mr A liable for the disputed transaction. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman