DRN-4410648
The complaint
Ms N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms N is being supported by a representative (the representative).
What happened
In or around November 2015, Ms N was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms N decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In 2020, Ms Ns made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. She said that P had 
made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Ms N to enter into the contract with P. She 
has made the following points: 
The system would generate free electricity.
The system would be self-funding. 
The feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayment costs which was important to Ms N as she was on a low income. 
Shed asked for interest to be frozen while Shawbrook looked into her claim but 
received no response to this causing her significant inconvenience and distress. 
She said she experienced problems some time after the sale  and subsequently 
explained this was in relation to her warranty provider becoming insolvent. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms N or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for the delay in 
responding to her concerns. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms N. But she did think Shawbrook had failed to notify Ms N that it hadnt 
frozen interest, and despite several chasers, it did not respond to her. So, she felt 
Shawbrook should pay £350 compensation (including the £200 it had offered). 
Ms N didnt agree for the following reasons:
 
She doesnt believe her home is suitable for solar panels due to its positioning and 
the slant on her roof  which is why the system didnt perform as expected and as 
she was promised.
She reiterated her concerns that the insurer providing her with a warranty became 
insolvent and, had she wanted to purchase replacement cover, she would have had 
to pay an alternative provider around £20 a month. 
Ms N also raised a number of other concerns as set out below. 
 
Ms N says that Ps salesperson paid an inducement to a third party in order to sell 
Ms N the system. She also set out some detail around her personal circumstances 
that were deeply distressing for her. 
She tried to cancel the system after the sale but was told she couldnt. 
She doesnt believe the loan was affordable and she felt this formed part of her 
original complaint. 
Ms N moved houses in 2021, which is before the end of the loan term, and whilst she 
remains responsible for repaying the loan, she is no longer receiving any benefit. 
Ms N feels P should have taken into account the possibility of her moving. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 15 September 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding 
the complaint but only in part and broadly in line with our investigator. I invited both parties to 
provide any further submissions they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. Ms 
N made a number of additional comments which Ill address below. Shawbrook accepted the 
findings of my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms N could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms N and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Ms N says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Ms N and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, 
to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The cost of the system 
Im satisfied that Ms N was told that the cost of the system was £7,755. The quote and credit 
agreement set this out clearly. 
The credit agreement also sets out that the monthly payment was £84.23. The total amount 
of credit is £7,755 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £15,161.40.
The figures set out in the quote are marginally different due to Ms Ns credit agreement 
having a deferral period of a few months, but the costs are broadly the same. Overall, I think 
Ms N would have understood what shed be paying for the system. Im also satisfied that P 
made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,755, it would cost Ms N more than 
this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Self-funding from the outset 
Ms N has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most 
likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms N could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the table is clear that Ms N could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one 
of £511.20, which results in an average monthly income of £42.60. As outlined above, Im 
satisfied that the credit agreement set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £84.23. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments when there is such a significant 
shortfall between the monthly cost of the system (including the loan costs) and the FIT 
benefit she was estimated to receive.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Ms N entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £82.86. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £82.86, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms N could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments as there is a deficit for the first two years. This supports my 
finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the loan 
repayment from the outset. 
While Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income alone. As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that 
the system would be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went 
through the quote at the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between 
the expected income and the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding over a period of time
Having reviewed everything provided by both Ms N and P, I do accept that Ms N was likely 
told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Ms N could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms N that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms N. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3432 kWh a year.
I have looked at the latest meter reading Ms Ns provided and can see what the solar panels 
were generating on average annually. Im satisfied that the system was performing at around 
the expected level of performance. I understand Ms N has since moved out of the property 
and can no longer provide any updated information. 
Ms N has also mentioned that, while her electricity bills did go down, this coincided with her 
former partner moving out and the overall usage reducing. I accept that this is likely to 
impact how much energy is used in the property, but Ive seen no evidence that the system 
didnt perform as it was designed to. It looks to me like the system isnt faulty and generated 
the amount of power it was expected to generate. I have also noted her comments regarding 
her house being unsuitable due to its position and roof slant, but, as explained above, it 
looks like the system did perform as it was designed to and generated the power broadly in 
line with the estimates. I think P made it clear how the system likely would perform, having 
taken account of her specific property, and the system then did perform in line with that. So, 
it doesnt look like P made any errors in this regard. 
P also estimated how much benefit (in financial terms rather than solely power generation) 
Ms N would likely receive over the expected lifetime of the system and used a set of 
assumptions to help it calculate these estimates. I have looked at the assumptions used by 
P, including the self-consumption rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and 
expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these 
are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think that explains why she may not 
have been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms N couldve expected to receive 
from the system.
So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high over the years, as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Ms N entered into the contract. This therefore 
doesnt amount to a misrepresentation  as they were formed based on reasonable 
assumptions at the time. 
To summarise, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that Ms N was told that the FIT 
payments would cover her loan payments from the outset. I think it was clear that there 
would be a shortfall between the FIT payments Ms N would receive and the loan payments 
shed have to make. 
And while the system was expected to generate enough benefit to cover the costs of the 
loan over a period of time (13 years), these estimates were reasonably calculated at the time 
of sale  so this also does not amount to a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold this complaint. 
Other issues
Warranty 
Ms N says she was unhappy that, after the sale, a third party contacted her and explained 
the company providing the warranty for her system had become insolvent, but she could 
purchase a replacement warranty from the third party. Ms N didnt want to increase her costs 
given her circumstances at the time, so she didnt buy the additional warranty. Bearing in 
mind that the system was performing as it was designed to, so she didnt need to make any 
claims on the warranty, she didnt buy a replacement warranty, and no longer owns the 
property where the system is installed  shes suffered no financial loss because of this. So, 
I dont intend to ask Shawbrook to do anything about this. 
House move 
Ms N is also unhappy that she moved out of the house in 2021, where the system is installed 
and feels the possibility of consumers moving out ought to have been considered during the sale. She also feels that her complaint with Shawbrook should have been resolved before 
the sale of her house. 
However, Ms Ns decision to sell her house came about after her circumstances changed 
following the installation of the system, so P could not have advised her with the house move 
in mind. And during the sale of the house, consumers are able to negotiate the purchase 
price of the house with the solar panel installation in mind. I think its apparent that, as Ms N 
was no longer going to own or reside in the house, she would no longer gain any benefits 
from the system.  Irrespective of the outcome of her complaint with Shawbrook, the solar 
panels were to remain installed in the house and the new owners would benefit from them. 
Shawbrook is also only obligated to put matters right if P has misrepresented anything to 
consumers during the sale or breached any contractual terms. But it is not expected to 
cover the costs or any losses arising from a consumers change in circumstances.   
Interest freeze 
Ms N asked for a payment holiday from Shawbrook during the lockdown period and also 
asked for interest to be frozen while Shawbrook investigated her complaint. Ive listened to 
the call and the advisor made it clear that, while payments would be temporarily on hold, he 
wasnt able to agree to interest being frozen. He said he would instead ask a manager if this 
is something that could be arranged. Ms N never received confirmation from Shawbrook 
regarding her request for interest to be frozen. 
Shawbrook is under no obligation to freeze interest, but it ought to have confirmed to Ms N 
and explained that it hadnt complied with her request. I can see Ms N repeatedly chased 
Shawbrook for an answer, but her requests remained unanswered causing Ms N significant 
inconvenience and worry. 
So, I agree with our investigator that Shawbrook hasnt responded to Ms Ns complaint in a 
timely manner and caused unnecessary worry by not informing her that interest was not 
frozen. And it should pay her £350 compensation for this, including the £200 it already 
offered. Shawbrook also said Ms Ns credit file wouldnt be negatively affected during the 
period that payments were stopped on the account and it should ensure that this is the case. 
New complaint points 
As our investigator explained, Ms N has raised a number of new issues that werent part of 
her original complaint. This service is unable to look at new issues that werent originally part 
of Ms Ns complaint, so I reiterate that we are not able to look at any of her new complaint 
points. 
I understand when Ms N raised her self-funding complaint, she stressed that as she was on 
a low income, she relied on Ps comments about the system being self-funding. But I have 
reviewed everything she originally complaint about, and at no time did she say the loan was 
unaffordable. Her concerns about a third-party receiving inducements, and her inability to 
cancel the system also werent part of her original complaint. I would add that I understand 
Ms N has suffered through some extremely distressing personal circumstances and she 
feels that Ps salesperson was aware of this. However, Shawbrook is only responsible for 
any breaches of contracts and misrepresentation on the part of P related to the sale of the 
system. Ms N has also raised concerns about being unable to open emails recently sent by 
Shawbrook. But as explained I cannot look at any new issues that werent raised as part of 
her original complaint. 
So, I will not be looking at these issues as part of this complaint. Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms N to enter 
into the contract for the system.
However, I do think it failed to deal with her complaint in a timely manner and also failed to 
confirm that it would not freeze interest on her loan account. So, it should pay her 
compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right 
Pay Ms N £350 compensation for the inconvenience and worry caused. 
Ensure Ms Ns credit file does not record any adverse information for missed 
payments during the period Shawbrook agreed to suspend payments. 
Shawbrook accepted the findings in my provisional decision. Ms N has disagreed with my 
provisional decision. Id like to stress that I have read and thought about everything shes 
said but I will only deal with her most salient points below. Ms N disagrees with my findings 
for the following reasons: 
Ms N reiterates that she did raise a complaint about the loan being unaffordable. She 
set out further detail and provided evidence as to why the loan was unaffordable. 
Ms N reiterates she was told the system would be self-funding and the provisional 
decision didnt address what induced Ms N to buy the system if it wasnt because the 
salesperson made claims about the system being self-funding. 
The quotation booklet sets out returns, estimates, and lists the payback year as year 
8  but these figures are for cash purchases, when Ms N bought her system using 
finance. Ms N feels these figures corroborate her claims that the system was sold to 
her as self-funding. Ms N adds that the quotation booklet setting out estimated 
returns for cash purchases was unfair and the salesperson gave her information 
based on a cash purchase while knowing Ms N was using a loan with higher costs. 
Ms N says that she did not receive a copy of the booklet and she cannot evidence it 
wasnt sent to her. That it should be for Shawbrook to prove that it was sent and used 
during the sale. 
Ms N also feels we havent investigated whether there has been a breach of contract. 
She reiterates that lenders should have pointed out at the time of sale that if she 
were to move, she would not benefit from the solar panels. 
Ms N reiterates that the salesperson was aware of private details about her partner at 
the time of sale and the salesperson should not have made the sale without 
informing Ms N of such details. She feels this makes the contract void. 
Ive reconsidered Ms Ns concerns about the affordability of the loan. In her original 
complaint, Ms N commented she was informed the system was self-funding which was 
important to her due to her low income. At no point did she raise concerns over the loan 
itself being unaffordable, or that appropriate credit checks or affordable lending assessments 
werent carried out. We cannot add additional complaint points and carry out new 
investigations into Shawbrooks credit checks and affordability assessments at this stage of 
the complaints process. This would have to be raised with Shawbrook in the first instance. 
Shawbrook would need to investigate these matters first and if Ms N remains unhappy, a 
complaint could be referred to this service after the complaints process has been followed. 
Ms N has made a claim that she was sold the system on the basis it was self-funding, and 
this is what induced her into the contract. I have reviewed the available evidence and found 
that there isnt sufficient evidence of her claim. Consumers enter into contracts for many reasons, and it isnt for me to ascertain their reasons. I can only make findings on the claims 
Ms N has made, and Ive found that its unlikely the system was sold to her in the way she 
says it was. 
Ms N says she didnt receive a copy of the sales documentation and Shawbrook should 
prove that it was sent. As explained in my provisional decision, Shawbrook has told this 
service that the quote formed a central part of Ps sales process. And given what I know 
about its sales process, Im satisfied that it was likely referred to during the sales meeting 
and likely sent to her.  
I understand the sections of the quote that Ms N has highlighted are for cash purchases, but 
the quote does specify these sections do not include finance charges. It is my understanding 
that P offered consumers the option to purchase these systems in cash, via point-of-sale 
loans or via other payment methods like credit cards. The quotation document includes 
sections for both cash purchases as well as finance  and this is clearly set out. I have to 
consider the quotation document as a whole. As I explained in my provisional decision, I 
think Ms N knew she was using finance to purchase the system, and the sections setting out 
the benefits in relation to the costs, including finance, showed the system would not be self-
funding (which Ive clearly set out in my provisional decision). And the sections for cash 
purchases only, explicitly said finance wasnt included. So overall, I dont think the quote is 
mis-leading.   
Ms N feels I havent investigated whether there has been a breach of contract but didnt 
specify what she means by this. From what I can see, P sold her a system which was 
installed correctly, and it performed broadly in line with the MCS certificate. So, it looks like 
she received the goods and service paid for and the system wasnt faulty. 
However, I note in Ms Ns impact statement she mentioned the first-year FIT payments didnt 
materialise and were guaranteed under the contract. Ms N didnt raise this in her original 
complaint, and, as Ive explained before, I cannot carry out investigations into new claims at 
this stage of the process. So, if Ms N feels Shawbrook has breached the contract in some 
way, for example under the year one FIT guarantee, or any other specific terms, she needs 
to raise that with Shawbrook first. Shawbrook can then look into whether any specific terms 
of the contract have been breached, and, if needed, Ms N can refer the matter to us after the 
complaints process has been followed. 
Ms N feels Ps salesperson ought to have pointed out that she wouldnt benefit from the 
system if she were to move houses and it ought to have considered the possibility of 
consumers moving houses when considering the long term financial returns the systems can 
provide. 
However, as I have already explained, in my view, it is clear that if a customer is moving 
houses, that they can no longer benefit from the system. The solar panels are installed in the 
original home, and they provide electricity that is to be used in that home. How would a 
consumer access and use electricity installed in another house? So, I dont think this is 
something that needs to be stressed on every sale  I think its apparent. And the sales 
documentation sets out the estimates that the systems will provide over the lifetime of the 
system. P cannot know what consumers may or may not do in future unless consumers 
inform P of their plans during the sale. So, generally, it is up to consumers to consider their 
life circumstances and choices bearing in mind the information given to them about the solar 
panels and the benefit they provide over the lifetime of the system. 
Finally, I have again thought about the personal circumstances regarding Ms Ns former 
partner and her belief the salesperson ought to have given her details about this. However, 
as I have already explained, Shawbrook is only responsible for the misrepresentations and breach of contract of P. And as Ive stated above, I think Ms N has received the goods and 
service she has paid for, and I dont think theres been a misrepresentation here. The 
information Ms N was given about the solar panel system and the credit agreement was 
clear, fair and not misleading so I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint. However, I understand 
Ms N has suffered through some extremely distressing circumstances and Im very sorry for 
this. But I dont think this means the system was mis-represented to her or it was mis-sold to 
her. 
Summary
Having again carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms N to enter 
into the contract for the system.
However, Shawbrook did fail to deal with Ms Ns complaint in a timely manner and also 
failed to confirm that it would not freeze interest on her loan account. So, it should pay Ms N 
compensation for the inconvenience and worry this caused.
Putting things right
Pay Ms N £350 compensation for the inconvenience and worry caused. 
Ensure Ms Ns credit file does not record any adverse information for missed 
payments during the period Shawbrook agreed to suspend payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman