DRN-2031596
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK PLCs (AXA) decision to decline a claim made 
under his contents insurance policy. Any references to AXA also refer to its agents.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Gs home was burgled. Entry was gained to his home via a window at 
the front of the property while Mr G was in the garden. Mr G returned to the room at the front 
of his home and noticed signs of the burglary. He called the policy and notified his insurer. 
AXA considered the claim but declined it. When first declining the claim, AXA said Mr G 
hadnt complied with an endorsement, as Mr Gs accessible windows didnt have key 
operated locks. It went on to refer to another exclusion in the policy, in that claims for theft 
wouldnt be covered if there was no evidence of force or violence when a thief was entering 
the property. However, it said the main reason for declining the claim was the endorsement 
for the window locks. Finally, AXA had said that Mr G hadnt been able to provide evidence, 
such as receipts, showing he owned the items that had been stolen. 
Mr G disputed the decision to decline the claim. He maintained the windows didnt need to 
be locked as he was at home when the burglary took place. He also said there was no 
definition of accessible windows set out in the policy terms, and he had never considered 
these windows to be accessible, as they were surrounded by railings. Mr G said hed been 
able to provide serial numbers for the stolen items. But he wasnt able to provide receipts as 
hed owned some of the items for a number of years. 
AXA issued its final response. It remained of the view the claim should be declined for two 
reasons. It said there was insufficient evidence there were signs of forced or violent entry to 
Mr Gs home, and because the accessible windows did not have a key operated lock, as 
required by the policy terms. 
Mr G said it was unfair of AXA to suddenly decide that there were no signs of force giving 
early indications it accepted force had been used. He also felt it was clear that there was 
evidence of the window being prised open by a screwdriver and then forced upwards. He 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to rely on the exclusion for the key lock as Mr G was 
at home at the time the burglary occurred. So she didnt think AXA could decline the claim 
on that endorsement alone. But she agreed there was insufficient evidence of damage or 
violence from the theft, and on that basis, she considered AXA was entitled to decline the 
claim. Mr G didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to start by clarifying there isnt any dispute that Mr G experienced a 
burglary at his home, and Im sure this has been a very upsetting time for him. Mr G has 
made extensive submissions, and in deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
Ive started by considering the endorsement for the window, which was AXAs initial reason 
for declining Mr Gs claim. The relevant clause from the policy terms say:
Accessible windows must have key-operated locks. If these locks are not fitted, 
cover for theft or attempted theft will be EXCLUDED
Mr G argued the window used in the burglary is in such a position in his home that he didnt 
consider it to be accessible by an ordinary definition. He also notes the policy doesnt define 
what it means by accessible. Ive considered both of these points, but I think the most 
persuasive of Mr Gs arguments is when the policy required the windows to be locked. 
The clause goes on to say the locks needed to be in full operation whenever You are away 
from home. However, Mr G wasnt away from home when the burglary took place. He was 
in the garden. So I dont think the fact the window locks are not key-operated is as relevant 
here as AXA considers them to be. Im more persuaded by Mr Gs argument that because 
he was at home when the burglary took place, there was no requirement for the windows to 
be locked. It follows, I dont consider it is fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on this clause to 
decline the claim.
Ill turn now to the second point AXA has relied on to decline the claim. Mr G has expressed 
some concern around the fact AXAs agents have made several different uses of language 
when declining his claim for what it perceived to be a lack of force or violence. For ease and 
clarity, Ive copied the relevant term from the policy wording that applied when the burglary 
took place. The clause says:
For any claims caused by theft, or attempted theft, no cover is provided:
 Unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get into Your 
Home or violence or deception was used to gain entry
I can understand Mr Gs frustration at the different use of language, but I think the point AXA 
and its agents have been making is essentially the same. This being if there is no sign of 
damage caused or violence used to gain entry to Mr Gs home, the claim is not covered.
Mr G has provided images taken during the police investigation. Hes highlighted what he 
says to be damage caused to the window frame. Mr G suggests this damage was caused by 
a screwdriver used to force the closed window open. Mr G considers this should be sufficient 
to meet the term.  
AXA disagreed and says it doesnt consider the image is conclusive evidence of damage 
caused or violence being used to enter Mr Gs property. Ive reviewed the image provided by 
Mr G. But I havent reached the same conclusion as Mr G in that this image is evidence 
damage was caused when the window was opened by the thief. I have carefully considered 
all Mr G has said about this image, but I do not agree it is conclusive in showing the window 
frame was undamaged before the burglary occurred, and damaged during the course of it. 
Id need to be satisfied of this to say AXA was wrong to rely on this policy term to decline the 
claim.   In addition to this, like our investigator, I dont consider the palm prints on the window to be 
sufficient in showing violence used by the thief when opening the unlocked window. I dont 
consider the unlocked window being opened in that way is indicative of the window being 
opened outside of its normal or intended use. 
Mr G suggested the police report should have been provided to this service as part of our 
investigation. AXA said in considering Mr Gs claim it accepted a burglary occurred, and how 
the thief entered the property. What it needed to decide was whether Mr Gs policy covered 
him for the claim he made. And, for this, AXA says it declined the claim based on the 
information at hand. Mr G says he was unable to obtain the police report when he asked for 
a copy.
Ive considered both sides comments here. Having done so, I agree with AXAs position. I 
say this as there is no dispute how the thief entered Mr Gs home, but there is also no 
conclusive evidence that damage was caused by the thief or violence was used to enter the 
property. I cannot see that, in light of the information available (which included photographs 
Mr G took of the scene of crime officer examining the entry point), AXA failed to properly 
consider the claim by relying only on the information immediately available to it. 
In summary, Im satisfied AXA is entitled to decline the claim on the basis there is no 
evidence of damage being caused by the thief, or violence being used to enter Mr Gs home. 
It follows, Im not intending to direct AXA to settle Mr Gs claim. I realise my decision is likely 
to be a disappointment to him and Im sorry for this. 
Mr G considers the service hes received from AXAs agent to be inadequate. He says there 
have been conflicting reasons for declining his claim and his complaint has not been handled 
in line with the timeframes set out in the regulators handbook. While it is clear Mr G 
experienced significant frustration with the handling of the claim, Im satisfied the final 
response letter set out why the claim had been declined. I havent seen anything to support 
Mr Gs allegations the date of the final response letter was backdated.  What I will say is 
that, while I can see there has been some differences in the reasons why the claim was 
declined, Im satisfied the final response letter sets out why the claim was being declined by 
AXA. It follows, Im not intending to direct AXA to take any steps to compensate Mr G for the 
handling of the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman