DRN-3479725
The complaint
A partnership Ill call B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down their 
business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close their business premises 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
L, a legal firm, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. For simplicity Ill refer to B 
throughout.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. They have a hairdressing salon.
They claimed on the policy for their business interruption losses caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. AXA declined the claim. It said the claim wasnt covered there had been no 
damage to property and Covid-19 wasnt on the list of specified diseases covered by the 
policy. 
B complained to AXA. They also thought the fact that the policy wording had been changed 
upon renewal in September 2020, to include a specific exclusion for Covid-19 related claims, 
implied that it had previously been included. AXA didnt change its decision. Unhappy with 
that response, B brought their complaint to us. 
Our Investigator investigated the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
B asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Bs business. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy which 
might be relevant to the claim in turn.
The core business interruption in the policy covers business interruption caused by 
Damage to the Property Insured under Section 1 Buildings and Contents.
Damage is defined as:
accidental physical loss, damage or destruction.
The causes of damage in Section 1 of the policy include events such as fire and storm. 
Regardless of the cause of damage there has to be physical damage to property in order for 
a claim to be valid.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Bs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical damage to the property. 
So, I dont think the claim was covered under this part of the policy.
There is also cover for business interruption loss caused by Damage (as defined above) to 
property in the vicinity of the insured premises which prevented or hindered the use or 
access to the premises. Again, there must have been physical damage to property. Since I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property in 
the vicinity of Bs premises, I dont think this part of the policy covers the claim.
Another part of the policy covers loss arising from:
any occurrence of a Notifiable Human Disease attributable to food or drink supplied 
from  the Premises
Notifiable Human Disease is defined as an:
illness sustained by any person resulting from 
(a) Food or drink poisoning or
(b) any of the following human infectious or human contagious disease
i) acute encephalitis, 
ii)Acute poliomyelitis,
iii) Anthrax,
iv) Chicken pox
v) Cholera, 
vi) Diphtheria, 
vii) Dysentery
viii) Legionellosis
ix) Legionnaires Disease 
ix) Leprosy,
x) Leptospirosis
xi) Malaria, 
xii) Measles, 
xiii) Meningococcal infection
xiv) Mumps, 
xv) Ophthalmia Neonatorum
xvi) Paratyphoid fever
xvii) Plague,
xviii) Rabies,
xix) Rubella, 
xx) Scarlet fever, 
xxi) Smallpox, 
xxii) Tetanus, 
xxiii) Tuberculosis, 
xxiv) Typhoid fever
xxv) Viral hepatitisxxvi) Whooping cough
xxvii) Yellow fever
An outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated will be notified to them.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19 or some other notifiable diseases such as 
SARS. Since Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies 
which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. 
Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And 
there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering any 
new diseases just because they are notifiable diseases. 
B has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in The Financial Conduct Authority & 
Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 which they believe is relevant to this 
aspect of their complaint but, as our investigator explained, their policy has a definitive list of 
specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case.
Furthermore, even if Covid-19 were included within the list of diseases covered by the 
definition of Notifiable Human Disease, someone would have had to have caught it from 
food or drink supplied from the premises. That is thought to be an unlikely way of spreading 
Covid-19 as it is a respiratory illness. There is no evidence that this happened.
My decision is based upon the wording of the policy in force at the time the loss arose. 
Although AXA might have decided later to state explicitly that Covid-19 wasnt covered, it 
doesnt follow that Covid-19 was covered under the earlier wording. I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that the policy under which B is claiming provides cover for their claim. And 
before it is necessary to consider any exclusion that may or may not be in the policy, it must 
first be shown that a relevant claim falls within the cover provided.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to B. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman