DRN-2164461
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
 In January 2018, Mr Ss car was damaged by a falling roof tile. He was insured with Ageas 
at the time, and they arranged for his car to be repaired. In December 2019 Mr S was 
involved in a road traffic accident. At the time of the second accident he was insured with a 
company Ill call Insurer B. Because this was a non-fault accident, Mr S also used an 
accident management company (AMC) to manage this claim for him.
When Mr Ss car was taken in for repair, it was discovered that the repairs following the first 
incident hadnt been completed  there was an issue with a sensor and a cruise control 
camera bracket needed to be replaced. And Mr Ss car was listed as a total loss on the 
Motor Insurers Anti-Fraud and Theft Register (MIAFTR) when it shouldnt have been. This 
caused a delay in Mr Ss car being repaired.
Repairs were completed in January 2020. But, despite this being a non-fault accident, Mr S 
had to pay an excess to Insurer B, and a waiver fee for the hire car provided by the AMC. 
Mr S has complained about the incomplete repairs and how his car was classified on the 
MIAFTR. He was also unhappy that he had to pay the excess and courtesy car waiver for 
the second accident. Ageas arranged for the original repairs to be completed. And they 
deleted the incorrect entry on the MIAFTR. They also apologised to Mr S for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. Mr S wasnt happy with this response and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said that Ageas had acted reasonably in arranging for the repairs to Mr Ss 
car to be completed, and by correcting their error and removing the car from the MIAFTR. 
But she thought that Mr S had been caused stress and inconvenience as a result of Ageass 
errors in 2018. So she recommended they pay Mr S £100 to compensate him for this.
Ageas agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Mr S didnt. He said Insurer B 
changed the claim for the second accident from non-fault to fault when it became clear that 
the repairs for the first incident hadnt been completed. He said that, if the repairs for the 
Ageas claim had been completed correctly, this wouldnt have happened, and he wouldnt 
have had to pay the excess or the courtesy car waiver fee. Mr S also provided evidence of 
the excess hed had to pay.
Because of the additional evidence, the investigator changed her view. She said that Insurer 
B had charged an excess because of the issues caused by Ageas, so she thought Ageas 
should refund this excess. She also thought Ageas also needed to reinstate Mr Ss no claims 
discount with Insurer B and refund him the additional insurance premiums hed been 
charged because of the reduction in his no claims discount, plus interest.
Ageas didnt agree with the investigators second view. They didnt see how their error had 
any bearing on the liability for the second accident or whether any excess should be 
charged. So they asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 February 2021, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ageas have said that, because of the extent if the damage to Mr Ss car in January 2018, 
they thought it was beyond economical repair. So they entered the cars details into the 
MIAFTR. But Mr S said he wanted to keep the car and, after reviewing the situation, Ageas 
agreed to repair it. But they didnt remove the car from the MIAFTR.
It wasnt until Mr Ss car had been in the second accident that Ageas became aware of the 
incomplete repair and the MIAFTR entry relating to the incident in January 2018. They 
arranged for these repairs to be completed and provided Mr S with a courtesy car while this 
was being done. Ageas also removed the car from the MIAFTR. 
Its not disputed that Mr Ss car shouldnt have been on the MIAFTR, or that the repairs 
werent completed correctly in 2018. But, when Ageas became aware of this, they put this 
right. Which is what I wouldve expected them to have done. But I appreciate this wouldve 
been both frustrating and inconvenient to Mr S. So, because of this, I agree with the 
investigator that Ageas should compensate Mr S £100 for this.
Ageas has also said the excess payment and the courtesy car waiver are related to the 
second accident, and not to the incident they dealt with. Which is why they didnt think they 
needed to reimburse Mr S for these. But Mr S has said that he had to pay the excess 
because Insurer B classed the second incident as a fault claim because of the incomplete 
repairs and the classification on the MIAFTR.
Ive seen a letter from Insurer B, dated 12 December 2019, which confirmed to Mr S that his 
No Claims Bonus has not been affected and your excess is not payable unless you are 
advised otherwise. Ive also a copy of a receipt for £450, dated 17 July 2020, which Mr S 
paid to the garage who repaired his car following the second accident. The receipt confirms 
its in respect of Excess.
But, in a letter dated 12 November 2020, Insurer B have confirmed that your excess must 
be paid when you claim on your policy, it is the first part payable of any claim made, 
regardless of fault. The letter goes on to explain that the excess is an uninsured loss, and 
that they will look to recover this (through a third-party company, at no cost to Mr S) from the 
other driver. Insurer B also confirm that we are dealing with this claim as a non-fault 
incident. We are holding the third party fully liable for this incident.
Im satisfied this letter explains why Insurer B were charging the excess  its part of their 
procedures and theyll look to recover it  and this wasnt charged because the repairs 
werent completed in 2018, nor because of the entry on the MIAFTR.
Because of this, I dont agree that Ageas are responsible for the excess being charged, so I 
wont be asking them to refund this to Mr S. The investigator also said that Ageas should 
reinstate Me Ss no-claims discount with Insurer B. This isnt something its possible for 
Ageas to do  theyre not responsible for how another insurer deals with a claim in progress. 
So I wont be asking them to do this either.For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I intend to ask 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £100 to compensate him for the frustration and 
inconvenience he was caused as a result of his car being added to the MIAFTR and the 
repairs not being completed in 2018.
Responses
Both Mr S and Ageas accepted my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because both Mr S and Ageas have accepted my provisional decision without further 
comment, I see no compelling reason not to adopt my provisional decision as my final 
decision.
Putting things right
 To compensate Mr S for the frustration and inconvenience he was caused as a result of his 
car being added to the MIAFTR and the repairs not being completed in 2018, Ageas should 
pay him £100.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman