DRN-4204817
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company Ill call R.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) for this complaint on 6 September 2023. In it I set out the 
background to the complaint, along with the outcome I intended to reach. Ive copied the 
content of that PD below in italics for reference. Ill then go on to set out what each party has 
said in response to the PD.
Mr A invested money into a company that Ill refer to as M. M had connections to other 
companies too, but for the sake of clarity Ill refer only to M in this decision.
Mr A believed he was investing on the basis his money would be used to purchase 
telecoms equipment at a discount, to then be sold on at a profit. Mr A didnt know at the 
time, but he was caught up in a Ponzi or pyramid scheme.
He sent £1,000 from one of his accounts held with a different bank on 5 October 2020. He 
then sent a further £7,000 from his Monzo account on 6 October 2020.
This service is broadly aware of the scam Mr A fell victim to. He was far from the only 
person to be drawn into the scam and, sadly, this service has seen numerous complaints 
from different victims. We know investors were promised attractive returns and that there 
was a genuine looking app which could be downloaded to monitor investments. The 
scheme continued for some time, with some investors actually receiving money back, as 
might be expected of a Ponzi/pyramid scheme.
R has said Mr A was introduced to M and the investment opportunity by a friend, who 
showed him returns hed received and graphs reflecting investment performance. Its also 
said Mr A checked Ms profiles on eBay and Amazon and could see there were no 
concerns.
R has also said how the investments were described as halal and that the person behind M 
was a well-respected member of a mosque. So there appear to have been elements of the 
scam designed to appeal to the cultural and religious beliefs of some victims.
Mr A realised hed fallen victim to a scam when he couldnt retrieve any funds from his 
account held with M. He contacted Monzo to tell it hed been scammed. And around the 
same time, he engaged the services of R to represent him.
There then appears to have been something of a breakdown in communication between 
the parties and there was little progress with Mr As scam claim. But Monzo did ultimately 
issue a final response letter on 12 January 2023. It declined Mr As claim for 
reimbursement, having considered it under the principles of the CRM Code.
Monzo is not a signatory to the CRM Code, but it has agreed to assess scam claims in 
accordance with the principles of it. And in doing so it said that it wouldnt refund Mr A on 
the
basis that it had provided him with what it considered ought to have been effective 
warnings at the time he made the payment to M.
Monzo further said that Mr As claim was being declined as it didnt find he had carried 
out sufficient due diligence on M or the investment opportunity more broadly, and so he 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was entering into a legitimate investment. 
It noted the points raised by R on this subject but said it hadnt been provided with 
sufficient information, or detail specific to Mr A.
R brought Mr As complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She recommended the complaint be upheld on the basis that:
The warnings provided by Monzo didnt meet the standards for firms set out in 
the Code, meaning the exception to reimbursement didnt apply; and
she felt Mr A held a reasonable basis for belief, considering what R had said 
about how Mr A was introduced to the investment opportunity with M and the 
checks he subsequently carried out.
Monzo disagreed and so the case was referred to me for a final decision. Ive gone over 
the information and evidence provided to date, and have discussed the investigation and 
outcome with both Monzo and R. I told both parties that I intended to reach a different 
outcome to the investigator. In summary I said:
I didnt believe Monzo could rely on the effective warnings exception for the 
same reasons as our investigator; and
I didnt believe R had demonstrated Mr A held a reasonable basis of belief as it 
had failed to provide relevant information and evidence specific to Mr A. Instead, 
it had only provided generic information about the scam Mr A fell victim to.
On that basis, liability ought to be shared between parties with Mr A receiving 
a partial refund, plus 8 % per year simple interest calculated from the date 
Monzo declined the claim until the date of settlement.
Monzo didnt agree to settle the case on that basis. Ive given R the opportunity to provide 
specifics, but it has failed to do so within a reasonable timeframe. And so Im proceeding to 
issue this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr As complaint in part, as per my earlier discussions with Monzo and R. Ive 
descried above how Ive already been over the outcome of this complaint with both parties. 
And so Ill only be covering the key findings and reasons behind them here.
A customer who has fallen victim to a scam should, under the CRM Code, be refunded in 
full in most circumstances. But the Code does set out exceptions to reimbursement which 
a business can choose to rely on, if it can evidence that they apply. Monzo has said that 
two such exceptions apply in Mr As case. Monzo says that:
Mr A ignored effective warnings presented to him at the time payment was made;
and
Mr A lacked a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with legitimate 
parties for legitimate purposes.
It is then for me to decide whether these exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly relied on.
Ill say at this stage that Ive no doubt that Mr A has been the innocent victim of a cruel 
scam. Im satisfied the proposition offered by M was a fraudulent scheme and Ive no 
doubt that
Mr A and many others have lost significant sums of money. But I need to consider the 
merits of Mr As individual case, taking into account his specific circumstances.
Did Monzo present Mr A with effective warnings?
Im not persuaded Monzos warnings met the requirements of the Code, which are set out 
under standards for firms (SF). In making this assessment Im mindful that Mr A was 
sending a significant sum of money to a new payee. And, from reviewing his account 
statements for more than a year previous, it was a significantly higher amount than hed 
sent before. It also appears to be true, again from looking at the historical statements, that 
he rarely set up new payees on his account.
I mention these key features as together they present a picture of unusual activity on Mr As 
account. And Im satisfied this was enough to show Monzo that Mr A might be at risk of 
financial harm through fraud. It follows that it needed to intervene and provide Mr A with a 
warning that met the standards set out in the Code.
Having considered the warnings Mr A was presented with, I note there was no mention of 
investment scams. There is little within the warning that is specific to the scam Mr A fell 
victim to, or any other type of scam. It is a broad and generic warning, where the Code 
requires it to be specific. The scam isnt brought to life, so that Mr A might have otherwise 
identified key features of an investment scam and recognised them in the circumstances 
he was caught up in. This lack of specificity in turn diminishes the warnings impact.
Its also true that the warning does very little to educate Mr A on how he might have 
protected himself, a further requirement under SF.
Monzo has said there was a link to a blog post within the warning that, if followed, would 
have provided Mr A more detail. But I dont consider a link to a separate web page can be 
fairly said to be tied into Monzo meeting SF here. There was no requirement for Mr A to 
follow the link or read the blog post. And Ive not been provided with evidence to suggest 
he did so.
Monzo has also said Mr A spent a long time looking at the warnings he was presented. The 
suggestion here from Monzo is that the warning must have resonated with him to a degree.
As far as I can see he spent 38 seconds moving through the screens from establishing 
the new payee to completing the payment. That doesnt seem to be a huge amount of 
time to me. And, in any case, the time spent by Mr A viewing the warnings doesnt make 
up for the failures to meet SF under the Code. And so I dont find this impacts the 
outcome in respect of the effective warnings exception.
Overall, Im not persuaded Monzo has shown it provided effective warnings. That means 
it will bear at least some responsibility for the loss, and the exception to reimbursement 
cant fairly be relied upon.
Did Mr A hold a reasonable basis of belief when he made the payment?
For me to decide whether it is fair for Monzo to apply this exception to reimbursement I 
need to consider what actions Mr A took to satisfy himself M and the investment 
opportunity was legitimate, and whether those actions mean he held a reasonable basis 
for belief. But having considered all the evidence and information provided to date Im 
unable to be as sure as I need to be that that is the case.
R hasnt been able to provide persuasive or specific detail about the steps Mr A took or 
why he was convinced all was legitimate. That is despite some direct questioning on this subject, and the granting of extensions to provide the information. It is difficult to 
understand why it would be anything other than straightforward to obtain some of this 
information. For example, I specifically asked who it was that introduced Mr A to the 
opportunity and what
their relationship was. But R hasnt been able to provide this information. Nor has it been 
able to demonstrate that Mr A was shown successful withdrawals of returns on 
investment by anyone he knew.
It remains true that the information and evidence provided by R, whether at earlier stages 
in the complaint or following my more recent enquiries, has remained generic and not 
necessarily related to Mr A directly. There is a lot thats been described about how the 
scam operated generally, and some of the broadly known features about how people were 
drawn in. But thats not enough for me to put together a clear picture of what actions Mr A 
took or why he was reasonably persuaded to proceed.
This is broadly similar to Monzos reasoning for declining Mr As claim under the reasonable 
basis of belief exception of the Code. I note that position arose, at least in part, due to the 
apparent breakdown in communication I referred to earlier. I can understand why Monzo 
reached that position at the time. I find the exception still fairly applies now, even after 
further investigation and evidence gathering has been undertaken, with fair and reasonable 
opportunities and timescales to provide additional information having been granted.
This means that Monzo can apply the exception to reimbursement and Mr A can fairly and 
reasonably be held partly responsible for his loss.
The actions of the receiving bank
R also complained to the bank to which Mr A sent the payment. It is a signatory to the CRM 
Code and assessed Mr As complaint with that in mind. In doing so it refunded a third of
Mr As loss, recognising partial liability on its part.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part.
I find that Monzo unfairly declined Mr As claim under the Code in that it ought to have 
reimbursed some of his loss at the time it investigated.
Mr A has received a partial refund from the receiving bank, after it accepted liability. The 
Code sets out that when liability is shared by the sending bank, receiving bank, and 
customer, as it is here, each party should be responsible for a third of the loss. That 
means Monzo ought to:
refund a third of Mr As loss (£2,333.34); and
 pay simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date Monzo declined the claim to the   
date of settlement.
Monzo didnt respond to the PD.
R responded on Mr As behalf having discussed the PD with him, and it sought to gather 
some further information. It provided me, in summary, with:
The name of the person that introduced Mr A to the scam (Ill refer to them as Mr B) ;
Emails it said Mr A was forwarded by Mr B over a course of several months, all 
relating to the supposed investment. Its said Mr A was encouraged by the consistency of deals being offered, over a period of time.
R also said Mr B showed Mr A a spreadsheet of returns and explained how everything 
worked. It also commented again on some of the general features of the scam, including the 
persuasiveness of the website. And it highlighted that many people in a trusting community 
had been tricked by the scammers.
Overall, it still felt Mr A had held a reasonable basis of belief when he invested, and so ought 
to be refunded in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but my findings remain unchanged from my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why.
I said in my PD that this service had repeatedly asked for specific information and evidence. 
R recognised that this hadnt been provided when it responded to the PD. But I find the 
situation is little changed, even after Rs further responses.
Its true R has been able to give the name of the person that introduced Mr A to the scam. 
But little additional evidence or information has been provided before that. To clarify:
Id asked to see any account statements that showed the returns Mr B had received, 
as it had been said that Mr A had seen these and that they were instrumental in him 
deciding to invest. No such statements have been provided, though Mr B has been 
described as a close friend of many years. So it seems this information ought 
reasonably have been obtainable.
In Rs more recent response it seems to have moved away from saying Mr A saw 
account statements, but instead saw spreadsheets showing Mr Bs returns. Ive not 
been provided with copies of such spreadsheets. Even if I were, these wouldnt 
confirm payments crediting a current account, and so would be significantly less 
persuasive in terms of establishing a reasonable basis for belief.
R provided several emails sent from the scammers to Mr B. It said these had been 
forwarded to Mr A over a period of months before he decided to invest. But theres no 
evidence of that. The emails provided were clearly forwarded to Mr A by Mr B in 
August 2023; not at the time he made the payments to the scam. 
Because of this, the issues highlighted in my PD, in terms of Mr As reasonable basis for 
belief, still stand. Im not then persuaded to alter my findings now that the final decision is 
being issued.
In reaching this outcome I have considered the impact of a close-knit and trusting community 
having been evidently caught up in this scam. And I can see why that would have been a 
contributing factor for Mr A when deciding to become involved. But I must take account his 
individual actions and considerations, rather than those of the people that he knew.
Overall, Im persuaded the three parties involved (Mr A, Monzo, and the receiving bank) 
ought fairly share responsibility for the loss. 
Putting things rightI find that Monzo unfairly declined Mr As claim under the Code in that it ought to have 
reimbursed some of his loss at the time it investigated.
Mr A has received a partial refund from the receiving bank, after it accepted liability. The 
Code sets out that when liability is shared by the sending bank, receiving bank, and 
customer, as it is here, each party should be responsible for a third of the loss. That means 
Monzo ought to:
refund a third of Mr As loss (£2,333.34); and
pay simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date Monzo declined the 
claim to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman