DRN-3234065
The complaint
Miss H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, irresponsibly 
granted her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019, Miss H acquired a car and financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. Miss H was required to make 36 monthly repayments of 
£183.66. The total repayable under the agreement was £6,428.10.
Miss H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a review of Miss Hs credit file and 
validation of her income. They noted she was earning no less than £1,240 per month and 
statistical data they gathered suggested Miss Hs expenditure would be around £632. So, 
they believed she would have enough disposable income to afford the monthly instalments. 
They also received a letter from Miss Hs Insolvency Practitioner (IP) who said that despite 
her being in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) they were happy for Miss H to take 
out the loan she was applying for.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss H didnt agree. She noted that the adjudicator had thought Moneybarn should have 
done more checks and she explained that she wouldve liked to provide bank statements 
from the period leading up to her application but shed had to close her bank accounts and 
couldnt get them.
Miss H asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn were aware that Miss h was in an IVA and that there had been a defaulted 
account about three months before Miss H made her application. I think that ought to have 
indicated that Miss H was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss Hs 
financial circumstances before lending.
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Miss H to provide us with evidence of 
her financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, she hasnt given 
us enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have 
shown Moneybarn. Ive read Miss Hs explanation that her bank accounts were closed but I 
think it would have been possible for her to obtain sufficient statements as the banks need to 
retain those records for a reasonable period. 
As Miss H hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. The IP had, after all, raised no concerns. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Miss H has explained the issue has affected her mental health and at the time of application 
it was at its lowest. I was really sorry to hear that but I cant see from Moneybarns system 
notes that they were aware of that issue when the application for finance was made, and I 
dont think it would be fair to say I had evidence Moneybarn had been unsupportive.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman