DRN-3377806
The complaint
Mrs N complains about an outstanding balance she was asked to pay after a hire agreement 
provided by Lex Autolease trading as Lex Autolease (Lex) was terminated early. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs N entered into a hire agreement with Lex to acquire a car. This was taken 
over four years with monthly rentals of £464.37 and had a mileage allowance of 12,000 
miles a year.
She says over the coming months the car had various issues. These included problems with 
the bodywork, diesel particulate filter (DPF) and the heat shield. She says the car broke 
down several times.
Mrs N complained to Lex and it issued a final response in October 2020. This explained it 
was upholding the complaint. It agreed to terminate the agreement early with no fees and 
paid Mrs N £700 to reflect what went wrong with the car.
Later in October 2020 Mrs N received an invoice for arrears on the account. In November 
2020 the car was collected having covered 19,544 miles. Mrs N was then sent a mileage 
termination invoice for £503.75, as the car was over the agreed pro rata mileage allowance. 
Mrs N complained to Lex. She said she didnt owe Lex anything as she was told on the 
phone the agreement would be treated as though it never existed once it was terminated.
In February 2021 Lex issued a final response to Mrs Ns complaint about the charges 
following termination. 
Lex said it had listened to the calls with Mrs N and it didnt agree she was told the agreement 
would be treated how she said. But, it said it provided Mrs N with limited information about 
the next steps following termination. It said it shouldve made her aware that she would 
continue to pay for the car until it was collected and that she would be charged excess 
mileage if the car was over the pro rata limit on the agreement. It apologised for this and said 
it would give its staff member feedback.
Lex also said it had not received any payment from Mrs N since February 2020. While it 
explained her payments had been deferred for part of the agreement, it said the arrears on 
the account were valid.
Lex explained that it didnt believe the additional time Mrs N had the car for had been taken 
into account when it calculated the offer of £700  so it offered a further £236. It also said it 
would remove the late payment markers from Mrs Ns credit file if she paid off the arrears or 
agreed to a repayment plan.
Mrs N remained unhappy and continued to complain. She told Lex she didnt believe all the 
calls had been considered.
A few days later, Lex sent a further final response. This covered the same issues as above, 
but added that Lex had located some further calls with Mrs N. It said, having listened to 
these, that a statement was made to the effect that Mrs Ns account would be adjusted so it 
was like she never had the car. And it said there was a suggestion that excess mileage 
charges would be waived. 
Lex said because of this, it would credit Mrs Ns account with an additional £503.75 to cover 
the excess mileage charges. But it said the arrears on the account were still due.
Lex also later confirmed it had applied for the negative information to be removed from 
Mrs Ns credit file.
Mrs N remained unhappy with this and referred her complaint to our service. She said, in 
summary, that she thought she shouldnt owe Lex anything under the agreement due to the 
issues she had with the car and from what she was told on the phone. And she said a 
payment deferral shouldve covered part of the arrears.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that she could understand why Mrs N might have thought that she wouldnt have to pay 
anything after the termination as she was told on the phone that the agreement would be 
treated as though it hadnt existed. But, she said this didnt mean it was reasonable to wipe 
the arrears, as Mrs N had use of the car. She explained that although there was a dispute 
over the payment deferral, even if this was in place Mrs N wouldve always had to pay the 
amounts back from this time.
Overall, our investigator said she thought Mrs N had been fairly compensated for what 
happened.
Mrs N replied and remained unhappy. She said the payment holiday had not been 
considered and it shouldve been taken into account that she was told the contract wouldnt 
exist. And she said it was Lex that stopped taking her payments.
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion  so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Lex has done enough to compensate Mrs N for whats 
happened. Ill explain why.
Mrs N complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as 
this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Ns complaint about Lex.
I should firstly say that there are quite a few points on this case that I dont think I need to 
make findings on. I say this as Lex has accepted much of what Mrs N has complained about.
So, Im not going to comment on the quality of the car, as Lex has accepted the issues 
Mrs N complained about and it has agreed to terminate the agreement. And Lex accepts 
what Mrs N said she was told on the phone  that when Lex terminated the agreement this 
would be treated as though it didnt exist and the excess mileage charges would be waived - 
so I dont think I need to comment further here.
Instead, what I need to consider is whether Lex needs to do anything further to put things right for Mrs N following the decision to terminate the agreement early. I understand Mrs N 
believes she shouldnt be responsible for any arrears or any further payments on the 
account.
Firstly, I can see why Mrs N would be upset at being given the impression that she wouldnt 
need to pay any excess mileage charges when the agreement was terminated. But, Lex has 
agreed to credit the account with this amount. So I dont think it needs to take any further 
action on this point. 
Secondly, and what I think forms the crux of this complaint, is whether Mrs N should be 
responsible for the arrears on the account given she was told on the phone that the 
agreement would be treated as though it had never existed.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs N said here. I can see why she wouldve been given 
the impression she wouldnt have to pay anything further on the account given what she was 
told on the phone. I can understand her frustration at later being told this wasnt the case. 
And Im satisfied this is an example of poor customer service. But, I dont think under the 
circumstances of this specific case that the fact Mrs N was told the agreement would be 
treated as though it didnt exist means it would be fair and reasonable to hold Lex to this.
Instead, I need to consider whether its fair and reasonable for Mrs N to pay for the use of 
the car for the time she had it.
Even though all parties accept that there were issues with the car, I still think it would be fair 
for Mrs N to pay for her use of it  although I have noted Lex has given Mrs N some 
compensation for this. I can see the car had covered around 19,500 miles when it was 
collected  which was over the pro-rated amount Mrs N had agreed to. So, I think its 
reasonable she should be responsible for the payments on the account until it was agreed to 
terminate the agreement.
Here, it isnt in dispute that Mrs N then continued to use the car once it had been agreed with 
Lex to terminate the agreement until it was collected. So, I also think its fair that she pays for 
this usage  although I again have noted Lex offered some compensation to cover this time 
period.
I appreciate there is some dispute over whether a payment deferral was put in place on the 
agreement due to financial difficulty due to COVID-19 or not. But, having thought about this, 
whatever happened here this wouldnt change my opinion. Payment deferrals are designed 
to provide short term financial help to consumers. But, payments due during a payment 
deferral are not waived and are expected to be repaid at some point. So, either way, I would 
still say Mrs N is responsible for the arrears from this time  whether a payment deferral was 
in place or not.
Ive considered what Mrs N said about the fact that Lex cancelled her payments  not the 
other way around. I dont know for sure what happened here. But, either way, I think Mrs N 
should still be responsible for the arrears on the account, regardless of who cancelled a 
direct debit.
Ive considered all of the other information and evidence on this complaint. Having done so, I 
think the offers Lex has made to put the situation right are fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Finally, I appreciate Mrs N is in arrears on this account. I would politely remind Lex to treat 
her with forbearance and due consideration.My final decision
My final decision is that the offers already made to put things right are fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman