DRN-2649388
The complaint
Mr G and Ms D complain that Santander UK Plc didnt treat Mr G fairly when he applied to 
port their mortgage product.
What happened
Mr G and Ms D had a joint mortgage with Santander. They had a fixed interest rate 
mortgage product which included an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr G and Ms D separated and decided to sell their property. They agreed that a second 
property would be transferred into Ms Ds sole name. Mr G intended to buy a property and 
port the Santander product to a mortgage on the new property.
Santander declined Mr Gs porting application saying it didnt meet affordability criteria. Mr G 
says it was unfair for Santander to take into account costs related to his joint ownership of 
the second property. He says their intention was that the transfer of the second property to 
Ms D would happen before or at the same time as he took out the new mortgage.
Mr G took out a mortgage with another lender, which he says has a higher interest rate than 
the Santander product. And Mr G and Ms D paid the ERC to Santander.
Our investigator said it was fair for Santander to take the costs related to the second 
property into account as this was still in Mr Gs name. He said Santander was entitled under 
the terms of the mortgage product to apply the ERC.
Mr G and Ms D didnt agree. Mr G said there was no intention to take out the new mortgage 
until the second property had been transferred to Ms D. He said the new lender dealt with 
this with a condition that the funds were only released once the second property was 
transferred to Ms D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr G asked to speak to me 
before I issue my final decision, to ensure I understand his complaint. I dont think this is 
necessary. Both parties have been given opportunity to comment and provide evidence, 
including in response to the investigators view. I think I have enough information and 
evidence to reach a fair decision.
Mr G and Ms D took out fixed interest rate products on their Santander mortgage. These 
products included ERCs. Mr G and Ms D repaid the mortgage while the ERCs applied. And 
so, under the product terms, the ERCs were payable.
The product terms said the ERC could be waived if the product was transferred (ported) to a 
mortgage on a new property. Mr G applied to port the product.
Santander told Mr G that as the second property was owned by him at the time of his 
application it was taken into account when assessing his income and outgoings. The result 
was that Mr G didnt meet its affordability criteria.
I understand Mr Gs frustration that his porting application was declined. Mr G and Ms D 
intended that the sale of the security property, transfer of the second property to Ms D and 
the purchase of Mr Gs new property would happen simultaneously. So, by the time the 
mortgage funds were released for Mr Gs property purchase, he wouldnt have any 
commitments to the second property. His new lender agreed to lend on this basis.
However, each lender is entitled to its own lending policies. While Mr G was able to take out 
a mortgage from another lender this doesnt mean Santander made an error. Santander 
provided its lending policy to this service and I think it applied it correctly here. Santander 
says Mr G and Ms D would have needed to arrange for the transfer of the second property to 
Ms D to happen before Mr Gs application was submitted, to avoid the costs being taken into 
account. I understand that this wasnt what theyd agreed to do, and might not have been 
practical for them. But I cant reasonably say that Santander should have waived its lending 
policy to fit with Mr G and Ms Ds plans.
Mr G says he was given incorrect advice. I think though that Santander told him that it would 
take costs related to the second property into account when assessing his application. And 
that it would work on a worse case scenario  that he could find himself solely responsible 
for the costs of the second property. I know Mr G doesnt agree with Santanders lending 
policy, but I dont think Santander misled him about how it would treat costs related to the 
second property.
Mr G was able to borrow from another lender, and Mr G and Ms D completed on their sale, 
the transfer of the second property and Mr Gs purchase. I appreciate they wanted to port 
the Santander mortgage product, which had a better interest rate than Mr Gs current 
mortgage, and avoid having to pay the ERC. Im sorry this wasnt possible. But, ultimately, 
Santander is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending policy. It applied its 
lending policy correctly to Mr Gs porting application. Santander was entitled under the 
product terms to apply the ERC when the mortgage was repaid, and I cant reasonably 
require it to refund it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman