DRN-2208311
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) turning down his claim for storm damage 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W contacted QIC to make an insurance claim when the roof came off his garage during a 
storm. QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. QIC then declined the claim as it said 
there was no evidence that the damage to the roof was a direct result of storm winds.
Mr W complained to QIC. When QIC replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
thought that the underlying cause of the damage was the breakdown of the flat roof due to 
thermal movement over the life time of the roof. This was not covered under the terms of the 
policy.
Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
thought it was reasonable for QIC to turn down the claim for the reason it gave.
As Mr W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this, Mr W has provided a range of comments about this case and the condition of 
the roof. I have read all of these as part of considering Mr Ws complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the weather conditions in the lead up to Mr Ws claim, there was a maximum wind 
speed of 52 miles per hour. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes. I note that QIC 
also agreed that there were storm conditions during the relevant time period.
For the second question, I think a storm could cause a flat roof covering to lift, but I think that 
for it to lift in one piece and become completely detached, as happened in the case, isnt 
typical of a storm unless there were particularly strong wind speeds. Although the wind 
speeds did meet the definition of storm conditions, they were at the lower end of what would 
be considered a storm. So I dont think a roof covering being ripped off in one piece is typical 
of a storm, including in this case when I take into account the wind speeds.
Ive also thought about whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Ive 
already said that I dont think the damage is typical of a storm. However, Ive also considered 
the evidence provided in this case to see what this showed.
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor took photos, including one of the 
felt roof covering from a distance because it was on the roof of a neighbours garage. The 
surveyors report said they hadnt found any storm related damage at the property and that 
the roof was thought to be about forty years old. The report went on to say:
An inspection of the damage found the underlying cause of the ingress is the breakdown of 
the flat roof due to thermal movement over the life time of the roof. This is where repeated 
cycles of heating and cooling causes the flat roof material to expand and contract. Over time 
this causes stress fractures to occur on the roof covering, the material weakens and 
eventually splits allowing water to ingress in the property. Whilst the recent weather has 
highlighted this breakdown, it has been the occasion but not the cause. It is advised that as 
the underlying cause of damage is the ageing of the materials, there is no cover under the 
policy.
Mr W disagreed with these findings. He said that a proper inspection of the roof covering 
hadnt been carried out and that the claim had been turned down on the basis of an 
assumption about his roof, but that QIC hadnt provided any actual evidence to support its 
findings. He said that the roof had been in good condition before this incident and that the 
damage was as a direct result of a storm.
I can understand that this was Mr Ws view and that he would have wanted the roof covering 
itself to be looked at. However, given where the roof covering ended up, I can also 
understand that it was difficult for the surveyor to access it. So, Ive thought about what the 
surveyor found during his inspection.
The surveyors report explained that the roof was about forty years old. Im aware that this is 
well beyond the normal expected life span of a flat roof, which is typically somewhere 
between eight and fifteen years. The surveyors description of what happens to flat roofs 
over time and how they break down is also what I would typically expect to happen to a flat 
roof. I therefore think that it was reasonable for the surveyor to think that this was likely to be 
the condition of the roof covering, even without being able to inspect it up close.
Ive also looked at what the surveyor found when he inspected the roof itself. This included 
that he thought the roof had debonded. QIC also provided further details that said there 
appears to be no trace of any adhesive nor fixings still adhered to the roof. Having looked at 
the photos of the roof myself, I also cant see any evidence of adhesive or fixings. So I think 
it was reasonable for QIC to conclude that there was nothing holding the roof covering in 
place and this meant that the roof covering was able to be lifted in one piece. As a result, I 
think it was reasonable for QIC to decide that the storm highlighted an already existing issue, 
the breakdown of the roof material, rather than it being the main cause of the damage to the 
roof.
Ive also read Mr Ws policy documents, which listed the following exclusions:
Loss or damage as a result of wear and tear, fall in value over time, gradual deterioration 
(whether you were aware of it or not), the effects of the light or atmosphere
I dont think that this is unusual wording or that it was unreasonable for QIC to decide that an 
exclusion applied in Mr Ws case under this part of the policy.So, thinking about all of the above, I think that it was reasonable for QIC to turn down the 
claim for storm damage for the reasons that it gave. It therefore follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint or require QIC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman