DRN-3672527
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled subsidence 
claims made under his insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr H made three subsidence claims under his policy with Aviva, in 2003, 2009 and 2019. 
The first two claims involved remedial action including new brick work, repairing of cracks, 
and redecoration. 
In 2019, Mr H was required to pay a further excess under his policy and a different 
contractor was appointed. Mr H felt strongly that an underpinning scheme shouldve been 
implemented to resolve the ongoing subsidence issue, rather than what he felt would be the 
more unsuitable option of tree removal. However, Aviva said removal of the implicated 
vegetation would likely rectify the problem.
Mr H also complained that the contractors that were appointed should be dismissed from the 
claim, that his excess should be refunded, and that a subsidence cover endorsement should 
be removed from the policy. Aviva later chose to remove all cover under the policy because 
Mr H didnt comply with its requirements.
Because Aviva and Mr H couldnt agree a mutually acceptable way forward, Mr H referred 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues raised, but didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. She said that based on the evidence there was implicated vegetation which needed 
to be removed as it was linked to the damage. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The key pieces of evidence in this case upon which Ive based my conclusions include the 
engineering appraisal report, the arboricultural report, and the claim assessment report.
The engineering report dated October 2019 does indeed say, as Mr H has mentioned, that 
the cause of damage appeared to be clay shrinkage subsidence, caused by variations in the 
moisture content of the clay subsoil, resulting in volume changes that had affected the 
foundations of the property.
It goes on to say that the existing trees appeared to be too remote to cause the movement, 
and the nearby shrubs were also small. It concludes that the clay shrinkage was suspected 
to have been caused by surface evaporation and not vegetation.
However, I dont find this report as persuasive as other evidence presented. It was compiled 
before any proper investigations were undertaken and so can only give an opinion based on 
an initial inspection and not based on the results of any thorough site investigations. It also 
comments that removal of the nearby shrubs would be a possible means to mitigate  but 
also recommends investigations be carried out to prove the cause and prevent recurrence. 
This indicates that the conclusions the report reaches are based on speculation and should 
not be taken as the final say on the matter. So Im not satisfied that the initial report is as 
conclusive as further reports provided.
The arboricultural report provided followed site investigations and mentions that roots were 
found below the property. The roots were identified to be of the same type as the nearby 
vegetation and so the report draws the conclusion that the damage was caused by clay 
shrinkage subsidence exacerbated by vegetation. It recommends vegetation management in 
the form of removal and appropriate stump treatment to be the best option to ensure long-
term stability to the property. I find this report persuasive because if the vegetation was too 
remote to be causing a problem, as the initial report suggests, the roots would not 
necessarily have been recovered from below the property. So I find it likely that the roots of 
the nearby trees and shrubs have contributed to the clay shrinkage subsidence.
The claim assessment report also comments that provided the property stabilises following 
rectification works, no foundation stabilisation works will be considered necessary. I agree 
with this based on the available information, and would suggest that Mr H allows the 
mitigation work to go ahead and waits to see if the property does indeed stabilise before 
considering underpinning as the optimal solution.
Although its possible, as Mr H says, that there could be problems in the future with heave or 
further episodes of subsidence, insurers arent generally responsible for protecting against 
all possible future subsidence problems. Avivas obligation under Mr Hs policy is to put right 
this episode of subsidence, and carry out a lasting and effective repair to the damage  
meaning that subsidence related damage shouldnt recur within a short period of time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but at the moment there isnt sufficient evidence to suggest an 
underpinning scheme is required at present. Ive also not seen sufficient evidence to suggest 
that the contractors appointed should be dismissed from the claim or that the excess should 
be refunded.
As Im satisfied that vegetation management isnt an unreasonable way forward, and that 
Aviva therefore hasnt acted unfairly in suggesting this as the best course of action, it follows 
that if Mr H doesnt allow the recommended works to go ahead, then Aviva would be entitled 
to remove cover under the policy, as the likely cause of the subsidence will present an 
ongoing risk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ifrah MalikOmbudsman