DRN-3437350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Covea Insurance PLC (Covea) who declined their claim three 
times before accepting it, under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a leak at their home. They contacted a contractor to carry out a trace and 
access (TA) during which, he found two leaks and while reinstating the floorboards, caused 
damage to them.  
Mr H contacted Covea to make a claim for the damage caused during the TA. Mr H explains 
that three separate Covea representatives declined his claim and one told him to submit an 
accidental damage claim. Covea said that it thought that Mr and Mrs Hs damage had 
already been included in the initial invoice. But once Mr and Mrs H had obtained a report 
from their contractor, confirming that they hadnt repaired the floor, Covea paid for the 
damaged caused during the TA. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to Covea. In its final response, Covea said It wasnt clear why it 
had been presented with a further invoice, from the same contractor to seemingly repair, 
sand and seal the floors, when it had already invoiced for the same thing. 
Although it accepted that Mr H had told them that the floor damage hadnt been repaired, 
Covea maintained that this didnt correspond with what information it had been presented 
with. If further advised that if the contractor caused further damage in the process of 
reinstating the floor this wasnt covered under TA, as it would be a separate accidental 
damage claim with a separate excess. But if Mr and Mrs H could provide some further 
explanation from their contractor to explain the discrepancy, it would further review. 
Mr and Mrs H then obtained this further clarification from their contractor and Covea paid 
that invoice. Despite this, Mr and Mrs H who had been given their referral rights, referred a 
complaint to our service, on the basis that Covea had refused to pay a valid claim, when it 
ought to have. And the distress this caused them.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. He said 
that when policyholders presented claims to insurance companies, it is for the policyholder to 
accurately present their claim. Covea were fair to make sure that it wasnt paying for the 
same work to be completed. So, when the initial invoice included costs for repairing and 
relaying the floor, it was reasonable for Covea to query the second invoice sent. His view 
was that he wouldnt be asking Covea to do anything else to resolve the complaint. 
Covea accepted the view, Mr and Mrs H did not. They said that Covea failed to understand 
the information presented and refused over the course of a month, 12 emails and three 
separate representatives, a valid claim. Once they were able to communicate why Covea 
were refusing the claim, after being threatened with Ombudsman action, the complaint was 
resolved within a matter of days. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have considered the terms and conditions of the policy and under the section that deals 
with policy holders obligations when making a claim, it gives details of what a policyholder 
should do. Essentially, it says that policyholders should provide the insurer with full details of 
the claim, sending it every relevant letter and giving their insurer any information and 
assistance that it might reasonably require. So, I think the obligation of a policyholder is to 
provide all relevant information to the insurer that is required, for them to be able to fully 
assess the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H said that it took about a month, a few emails and three flawed determinations 
from Covea before it settled the claim. I asked Mr and Mrs H why after the first refusal by 
Covea, didnt they obtain (what was clearly a relevant piece of information)  the letter from 
their contractor that confirmed that he didnt carry out the repairs to the floor, especially as 
Covea had already told them that in the invoice sent, it stipulated that the flooring had been 
repaired and relayed by their contractor. 
Mr and Mrs H said that Covea had told them that it was their contractor who had damaged 
the flooring and it was for their contractor to repair the flooring. But, having considered their 
obligations under the policy, I think that had they produced a letter sooner from their 
contractor, then Covea would have complied with its obligations of settling the claim earlier. 
Which it did as soon as Mr and Mrs H obtained the necessary clarification.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H felt that the claims process took longer than they wouldve 
liked. And I can appreciate that claims are stressful. But Mr and Mrs H had an obligation to 
provide as much information to Covea for it to assess the claim. This wasnt completely done 
until their contractor provided the letter. Had they obtained the further explanation sooner, I 
think Covea wouldve dealt with it sooner. 
Further, Covea had told them that it was because of the lack of clarity in the invoice 
presented, in that it said that the repairs to the flooring had been completed when this hadnt 
been the case. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to have obtained the 
letter from their contractor sooner. 
So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Covea to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the 
distress and inconvenience. Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve liked, I wont be asking Covea to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman