DRN-1602697
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc refused an over-the-counter withdrawal of cash. 
What happened
Mr G visited a Barclays branch on 9 May 2019 because he wanted to withdraw £3,000 cash 
from his account. Barclays refused the request because the amount was more than their 
Counter Withdrawal Limit. They asked Mr G to give notice of his withdrawal, so they could 
have the cash available for him.
Mr G has complained that Barclays refused the over-the-counter withdrawal and told him he 
needed to give them five-days notice for cash withdrawals. Hes also unhappy that Barclays 
gave several different answers about what the Counter Withdrawal Limit was, and that 
theyve refused to provide a list of the changes to the terms and conditions on his account.
Our investigator found that Barclays couldve dealt with Mr Gs request for the Counter 
Withdrawal Limit better by providing the information sooner, but they did tell Mr G where he 
could find this information. And he felt that asking Mr G to give notice of the withdrawal was 
in line with this policy.
He also said that, while Barclays terms and conditions are available for Mr G to view online, 
its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell a financial business how it should 
present this information. So he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen the Counter Withdrawal Limit page of Barclays website. This says theres no limit 
to how much money you can withdraw over the counter in our branches  as long as youve 
got the money in your account. If you want to withdraw over £2,000, please give us 24 hours 
notice so we can make sure the moneys ready for you to collect. 
So, while Mr G could withdraw £3,000 cash from his account, hed need to give Barclays 
notice of this. Barclays need to ensure that each branch has sufficient available cash to 
service all of their counter transactions and allowing customers to withdraw very large 
amounts of cash without notice may mean there isnt enough cash available for this. So I 
dont think this policy is unreasonable.Given their policy, for the reasons stated I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
refuse Mr Gs request. So, without giving any notice, he wouldve been limited to £2,000 
cash over the counter plus whatever he was able to withdraw from the cash machine (up to 
£1,000 dependent on the type of account being used).
In their letter of 14 May 2019, Barclays explained their branches are given an amount of 
cash each week that they must manage effectively. Because of this they said Mr G should 
call 5 working days in advance of the collection date to ensure these funds are delivered 
and available. But, in their letter of 10 July 2019, they said we ask that customers provide 
at least 24 hours notice of such a withdrawal but depending on the availability of cash at any 
time, and the possible need to order additional cash to meet the request this can take up to 
five working days. In this letter Barclays also provided a link to their Counter Withdrawal 
Limit webpage.
I agree that the information provided to Mr G wasnt consistent - he was told he would need 
to give five days notice, and then he may need to give five days notice. But I cant see that 
this affected the initial refusal  Mr G wanted to withdraw more than the Counter Withdrawal 
Limit, without giving any notice, and Barclays werent unreasonable in refusing this. The 
outcome wouldve been the same even if Mr G had been told it may be up to five days at the 
point he tried to make the withdrawal. Barclays have confirmed their policy and told Mr G 
where this can be found going forward. So I dont think they need to do anything more.
Mr G believes that Barclays have changed the terms and conditions on his account and, in 
doing so, imposed a cash withdrawal limit where there wasnt one. Because of this hes 
asked that Barclays provide a breakdown of all of the changes to the terms of his account 
since he opened it. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell Barclays 
what format they need to provide their terms and conditions in  this is a decision Barclays 
for Barclays to make in conjunction with their regulator The Financial Conduct Authority. So I 
wont be asking Barclays to provide the information in the format Mr Gs asked fFor the 
reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.or.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman