DRN-3665060
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Zurich Insurance Plc handled a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy following a fire that damaged his home. 
Mr O is the sole policy holder and is represented in this complaint by his wife. His sister in 
law also corresponded with Zurich. But, for ease, Ill refer to Mr O throughout.
Reference to Zurich includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr O had a home insurance policy, underwritten by Zurich, that covered him for loss or 
damage caused by fire. In November 2021 there was a fire in Mr Os home that caused 
damage to the property. He contacted Zurich on the same day and made a claim under his 
home insurance policy. Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. Mr O and his 
family needed alternative accommodation while their home was being repaired. Mr O also 
asked for an emergency payment to buy clothes and toiletries. The family eventually moved 
into a friends rental property in January 2022. In between times, they stayed with their 
relatives even though it wasnt suitable for the size of their family and pets. At one point, they 
moved into a property theyd found online but they didnt stay there as it didnt have a fire 
alarm and was in a poor state of repair. 
Mr O complained to Zurich about a number of issues. He wasnt happy with the delay in 
providing the emergency payment, and later a disturbance allowance. And he felt as though 
Zurich should have given them more help to find alternative accommodation. He also said it 
felt like a battle every time they dealt with the loss adjuster. He thought this was 
unnecessary and could have been avoided. He gave examples of the loss adjuster pushing 
back on the cost of a new mattress and the cost of work that needed doing on the bathroom. 
He also said theyd had difficulties getting a contractor to clean laundry, bedding and other 
items that smelled of smoke.
Zurich accepted Mr O shouldnt have received items back that smelled of smoke. It offered 
him £100 for any upset that had caused. Zurich said it appreciated the circumstances of his 
claim would have caused a great deal of stress. But it said it could only compensate for its 
failings, not the claim itself. And it didnt think any further compensation was warranted. Mr O 
wasnt happy with Zurichs reply. He didnt think it had addressed all of the issues they had 
raised, including the poor service, lack of support and the impact this had on him and his 
family. 
Our investigator said she hadnt seen any unreasonable or unavoidable delays in the 
handling of Mr Os claim. She thought it was reasonable for the loss adjuster to question 
some of the costs, as it was her role to validate and quantify the costs. She thought the offer 
of £100 for returning some items smelling of smoke was fair and reasonable. She didnt think 
Zurich needed to do anything more. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont set out every detail mentioned in Mr Os complaint but I have read through all of the 
information we have on file and will focus instead on the key points hes raised. 
Unfortunately for Mr O, I think he was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and 
inconvenience with a claim of this nature. The event itself would have been stressful enough 
without then having to make a claim and go through the process of finding alternative 
accommodation and getting his property repaired. So, there was always likely to have been 
a lot of disruption. My role here is to look carefully at Zurichs handling of Mr Os insurance 
claim to see if its treated him fairly through this difficult period. 
Delay in providing an emergency payment
 
I can see that Mr O asked for an emergency payment of £1,000 the day after the fire. The 
loss adjuster said shed ask for a payment but reminded him that Zurich hadnt accepted 
liability at that time. She later explained that payments can take up to five days to be 
processed. Mr O says he received the payment the following week, about five working days 
after he requested it. I can understand his frustration about the time it took to receive this 
payment, particularly as they were busy trying to source alternative accommodation at the 
same time. Unfortunately, payments can take time to process and I havent seen any 
evidence of an avoidable delay by Zurich. So, I think it would be unfair to say Zurich were at 
fault for the delay in providing this payment. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr O thought the loss adjuster could have done more to help them find alternative 
accommodation. He said she always seemed to be pushing back, making it more difficult 
than it should have been. Ive read through the claim notes and I can see there was a lot of 
communication in the first few weeks about alternative accommodation. The loss adjusters 
role was to find accommodation for Mr O and his family that was of a similar size and 
standard to the family home. But she also had a responsibility to make sure the amount 
Zurich paid out was justified and in line with Mr Os insurance policy. So, I think it was fair for 
her to ask the questions she did.
I can see that it proved difficult to find somewhere suitable for Mr O and his family to stay. 
That was partly due to an active rental market and partly due to landlords not wanting to rent 
properties for less than 12 months. In this situation, I would expect the loss adjuster to work 
with Mr O to find a reasonable solution or compromise. And I think she did that. She sourced 
an estate agent to help with the search. And although Mr O said the agent only contacted 
him once, I can see that the loss adjuster spoke to them directly as well. She then agreed to 
increase the rent and said shed consider 12-month rentals. She was also quick to agree the 
online rental as a stop gap before the family moved into the friends rental property in 
January 2022. While its unfortunate the online rental wasnt suitable, I dont think that was 
due to any fault on the part of the loss adjuster.
Delay in providing funds
Mr O was also unhappy with the delay in providing other funds, including a disturbance 
allowance and a payment to secure the online rental. He made a complaint about this in 
mid-November. But, again, I think it would be unfair to hold Zurich responsible for this. I can 
see that the loss adjuster responded quickly when she spoke to Mr O about the problems they were facing. She initially authorised a disturbance payment for the days Mr O was 
staying with his relatives and increased that when she found out the online rental hadnt 
been suitable and the family had returned to his relatives house. She also authorised a 
payment for the online rental on the same day she was told about it. Its not clear when 
these payments were received by Mr O and I can understand his frustration if there was a 
delay in getting the funds that had been agreed. But, as Ive said, payments can take time to 
process and I havent seen any evidence of any avoidable delays by Zurich. 
Damage to the bathroom/mattress
When Zurich first inspected the damage at Mr Os property, he said he asked about potential 
damage above the ceiling in the kitchen where the fire started. He said their builder even 
offered to take down the ceiling to check for damage. But this was declined. So, when 
damage was subsequently found in the bathroom above the kitchen, Mr O was unhappy that 
the loss adjuster then questioned why it hadnt been picked up earlier and whether Zurich 
should pay for it. 
I can see that when this was raised with the loss adjuster, she explained why they would 
never do a destructive inspection of a property. That is, they wouldnt normally remove 
ceilings or bath panels on their first inspection. She also said it was her understanding that 
the damage upstairs was only light soot damage, and there was no evidence of damage to 
the tiles in the bathroom. So, I can understand why the loss adjuster asked the questions 
she did. This again comes back to the role of the loss adjuster to ensure the costs incurred 
by Zurich were reasonable and in line with the terms of Mr Os policy. The loss adjuster 
subsequently agreed to the costs of repairing the bathroom.    
Mr O says the loss adjuster also questioned the cost of a new mattress. But, again, I dont 
think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. The loss adjuster agreed to pay about 
£750 for a new mattress and while that was lower than Mr O wanted, I can see that she also 
offered a further £179 for a mattress topper. As it was, Mr O was happy for Zurich to pay the 
£80 theyd originally paid for their mattress topper.
Items smelling of smoke
Zurich has agreed it shouldnt have returned items to Mr O that were still smelling of smoke. 
It apologised for the upset that caused and offered to give him £100 in recognition of that. 
And, in the circumstances, I think that amount was fair and reasonable.
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr O and his family have experienced. Theyve 
had a lot to deal with since the fire in their property and I can understand how stressful that 
must have been. Insurers can make a bad situation worse if they dont handle a claim 
reasonably and sensitively. But having carefully considered whats happened here, I dont 
think Zurich has treated Mr O unfairly in the circumstances. So, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Zurich Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Zurich Insurance Plc should pay £100 to Mr O. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 Richard Walker
Ombudsman