DRN-3330995
The complaint
Miss G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim she made under 
her employers group critical illness scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss G joined her employers group critical illness scheme (the scheme) with cover 
commencing on 20 July 2020. In October 2020 Miss G had a lesion removed from her back 
and received a cancer (melanoma) diagnosis. So, Miss G made a claim under the policy.
Aviva declined the claim under an associated conditions exclusion. Aviva said that, 
although Miss G wouldve been unaware of the eventual diagnosis, GP records show the 
melanoma was first noticed before she joined the scheme. 
Miss G complained to Aviva but their position didnt change. In short, they said:
The associated conditions exclusion applies for the first two years of joining the 
scheme. This means they cant pay a claim if, before the member joined the scheme, 
they had symptoms of, or any condition, that is likely to have led to the critical illness 
being claimed for  whether the member received a diagnosis or not.   
They asked Miss Gs GP to complete a report who confirmed she first saw a doctor 
about her concerns in September 2020. The medical entries from September 2020 
say:
23 September 2020
dd 4-5 months of mole on back [sic]. several weeks of bleeding. Partner thinks 
bigger. Plan  agreed r/v next week.
30 September 2020
F2F appt Review of mole on back. Started from small spot 4-5 months ago. Bled 
recently and itchy too. Now approximately the size of backed beanLesion upper 
back  fleshy, smooth and pink, obvious [sic] bleeding point where lesion has lifted 
on one side. Telangiectasia present over left side. Doesnt obviously look like seb 
keratosis. Not warty and no crusting and no plugs seen on dermatoscopyPhotos 
taken for tele-derm service  cant be sure this isnt suspicious.
They werent saying Miss G knew, or even suspected, she had cancer when cover 
commenced. But the issue isnt whether Miss G knew the spot was sinister (which 
the medical professionals support). Instead, its when the spot first appeared and  
based on the consultation notes and GP letters  this was before cover started in 
July 2020. 
Their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had reviewed Miss Gs case and felt the 
associated condition exclusion applied. They said:
Irrespective of the claimants awareness this lesion was present prior to cover 
starting on 20 July 2020. The GP documentation in the consultation dated 
23/09/2020 puts the date of first knowledge around April-May 2020.
Although they sympathised with Miss Gs situation, they thought the associated 
conditions exclusion had been correctly applied.
They explained group policies work differently to individual policies. Group policies 
contain blanket exclusions because covered members are not medically 
underwritten. The insurer can agree to the risk, without any medical underwriting, 
because any pre-existing, related or associated conditions are specifically excluded 
within the policy terms. So, they werent suggesting there had been any non-
disclosure here, as they didnt ask Miss G to make any declarations regarding her 
health before being accepted on the scheme. 
They acknowledged Miss Gs claim that she hadnt received the policy wording when 
joining the scheme. But they explained Miss Gs employer is the policy holder and so 
they provided the policy wording to them. And they have no control over how the 
employer chooses to cascade this to their employees. 
Miss G referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but she 
didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim. In short, she said:
She noted Miss G said there were no cancer related symptoms during the four to five 
month period before visiting the GP in September 2020. And that the growth of the 
spot referred to in the GP entries was in relation to the time between the two 
September appointments, not the four to five month period prior. But, while she 
likewise accepted Miss G wasnt aware the spot may have been something sinister 
before she joined the scheme, the policy exclusion doesnt require awareness.
Instead, it requires a symptom recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion 
to be related to the occurrence of a critical illness. And Miss Gs medical records 
suggest the symptom had occurred prior to her joining the scheme. 
Letters from Miss Gs GPs in support of her claim likewise indicate the lesion 
removed was present months before cover commenced  albeit Miss G wouldnt 
have known it to be suspicious. 
Miss G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Ive 
only considered Avivas decision to decline Miss Gs critical illness claim. I understand 
Miss G also has concerns about her income protection claim as well as about the broker 
who sold the policy to her employer. So, although Im aware of the circumstances around 
these concerns and the events that have unfolded, I wont be commenting on them within 
this decision. They will be dealt with separately as individual complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I want to firstly assure Miss G that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said in 
support of her complaint. I also dont underestimate the severity of her condition or the 
impact its had on her. I know cancer is a life changing event and the toll it has had on her 
isnt in question here. What I must consider here though is whether Aviva has acted fairly 
and in line with the scheme conditions by declining her claim. I know this isnt the outcome 
Miss G is hoping for but, for the reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The policy conditions set out the cover Miss G benefits from as a member of her employers 
group scheme. The scheme however  like all insurance  doesnt cover every eventuality 
and has exclusions. The relevant one here is:
9. What is not covered?
9.3 Associated Conditions
We will not pay a lump sum benefit for a member or a child who has a critical 
illness or operation if they had an associated condition at any time prior to:
The date their cover commenced under the scheme and;
The most recent date (prior to the current claim) that they met the conditions for a 
valid claim for a critical illness or operation under the scheme.

This exclusion will apply indefinitely in respect of claims for:
total permanent disability; and
loss of independent existence  permanent and irreversible; and
paralysis of limbs  total and irreversible. 
For all other critical illnesses and operations, the exclusion will no longer apply if 
the member or child does not have a valid claim for that critical illness or 
operation within the first two years of the date they joined your scheme
The critical illness Miss G claimed for under the policy is cancer. And so, the above means 
that the associated conditions exclusion only applies to this critical illness for the first two 
years from when Miss Gs cover started. It follows that, as Miss Gs claim was made within 
this two-year period, the exclusion is applicable to her claim. 
Ive therefore considered whether Aviva has fairly applied the associated conditions 
exclusion. The policy conditions define Associated conditions as:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment which is either;
recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence 
of a critical illness or operation, or
is listed in the associated conditions column of the critical illness/operation table 
which begins on page 4.
The above means only one part of the associated conditions definition must be met for the 
exclusion to apply. In Miss Gs case, it is the first part that is relevant to her claim.Aviva say the medical evidence from September 2020, when Miss G contacted her GP, 
shows the melanoma was present prior to 20 July 2020  when Miss Gs cover commenced 
under the scheme. This is because the GP entries refer to the mole/spot that was reviewed 
on Miss Gs back being present four to five months earlier, and so around April/May 2020. 
Miss G argues however that the earliest a GP or specialist reviewed the lesion in question 
was in September 2020. And theres no medical evidence to show it  or any symptom of 
cancer  existed prior to this. So, no treatment or investigation occurred before her cover 
commenced. 
I appreciate Miss Gs strength of feeling about this matter and Ive given careful thought to 
everything shes said as well as the medical letters shes provided to support her position. At 
which point, I want to make it clear that there doesnt seem to be any suggestion that Miss G 
knew  or had any reason to believe  she had cancer before she joined her employers 
scheme. Miss Gs GP and treating specialists confirm this and Aviva havent said otherwise. 
So, as our investigator explained, Miss Gs awareness of the melanoma before visiting the 
GP isnt the issue here. 
Rather, the associated condition exclusion only requires a symptom or condition  that is 
recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence of a 
critical illness  to have been present before cover commenced.  Having looked at the 
September 2020 GP entries, they evidence the lesion removed was reported by Miss G as 
starting from a small spot (mole) four to five months prior. This timescale is before cover 
commenced. 
At this point I think it would be helpful to explain that, given the GP entries reflect Miss Gs 
self-reported history of the spot/mole, I see no reason to doubt the accuracy of when the 
symptom first presented itself. And so, as the medical evidence confirmed the lesion 
removed (originating from the reported spot/mole) as a malignant melanoma, it follows that it 
was related to the critical illness being claimed for. 
Although Miss G may not have known the seriousness of the spot or mole on her back in 
September 2020, Im satisfied that the melanoma condition claimed for was present before 
Miss Gs cover commenced in July 2020. Because of this, I think Aviva has acted fairly and 
in line with the policy conditions by applying the associated conditions exclusion to Miss Gs 
claim. 
I realise Miss G will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think Aviva 
has fairly declined her critical illness claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman