DRN-3443012
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that TSB Bank plc recalled a Bounce Back 
Loan and closed its account without notice. 
Ss director, Mr W, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
S banked with TSB. The company successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan 
in June 2020, drawing down a loan of £50,000.
In November 2020, TSB initiated a review of Ss account and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. The bank restricted access to the account while it did so, meaning that the 
company couldnt utilise the funds held therein.
While the review was ongoing, Mr W complained to TSB about being unable to access Ss 
account. But the bank said that its actions were in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
Following the review, TSB terminated Ss Bounce Back Loan facility. The bank applied the 
funds held in the account, of just over £5,300, to pay down the amount S owed on the loan 
and issued a formal demand for the remainder on 16 March 2021. The bank then closed Ss 
account on 23 March.
Mr W referred the matter to us as he didnt think TSB had acted fairly. He said hed done 
nothing wrong and didnt think there was any justification for the banks actions.
One of our investigators reviewed Ss complaint. In summary, he said:
TSB had carried out appropriate checks in line with the rules of the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme and its broader legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
TSB had concerns over Ss eligibility for the loan. As it wasnt satisfied as to Ss 
eligibility, TSB had terminated the loan and closed the companys account in line with 
the applicable terms and conditions. He thought this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
It had, though, taken TSB too long to complete its review. In particular, he couldnt 
see any meaningful action by the bank between 6 November 2020 and 23 February 
2021. So he thought the complaint should be upheld on this aspect, and 
recommended that the bank pay S £200 compensation for the inconvenience these 
delays had caused.
TSB offered to pay the compensation to settle the matter, but Mr W didnt accept our 
investigators view. He still didnt think TSBs actions were justified and said that hed had to 
turn down work as a consequence of being without the account. TSB said it withdrew its 
offer and said it didnt think that compensation was appropriate given the circumstances 
giving rise to its actions. It said it was not unrealistic that there would be such delays, as 
the focus was on issuing loans at the time and the mechanisms for recovering them were 
still in development. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The review and recall of the Bounce Back Loan
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. For businesses established prior to 1 January 
2019, this percentage was to be based on their turnover for the calendar year 2019.
On Ss behalf, Mr W applied to TSB for a loan of £50,000, so the company needed to have a 
turnover of at least £200,000. In the loan application he submitted, Mr W declared a turnover 
of £350,000. So TSB approved the application on this basis  with applicants required to 
self-declare that they met the eligibility criteria.
Although the loan had been approved and drawn down, and some of the funds utilised, TSB 
was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is in line with 
its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in reviewing things in 
the manner it did.
Following its review, TSB decided that S wasnt eligible for the loan. The bank identified that 
the turnover going through Ss account was substantially lower than the £350,000 figure 
declared in the application and wasnt in keeping with the information Mr W had provided 
when opening the account. As part of its review, TSB asked Mr W for information to 
evidence the figure hed used  most notably the companys accounts  but this didnt 
demonstrate a turnover at or near the level hed declared. Mr W has also provided us with a 
copy of Ss accounts, which show a substantially lower turnover during 2019 than the 
£350,000 stated in Ss Bounce Back Loan application. So I think the banks conclusion was 
reasonable. 
I understand from what Mr W has told us that the figure he used may have been based on a 
projection of future income. But estimated figures could only be used by businesses 
established after 1 January 2019. S had been established several years prior to its 
application and was required, under the Loan Scheme rules, to provide its annual turnover 
for the calendar year 2019. 
This was clearly explained in the application form that Mr W completed:
You can apply for a loan which is up to 25% of your turnover in calendar 
year 2019  If your business was established after 1 January 2019, you 
should apply the 25% limit to your estimated annual turnover from the date 
you started your business.
I understand Mr W thinks TSB should have checked this before approving the loan. But as 
noted above, lenders were entitled to rely on the applicants self-declaration as to their 
eligibility. The application form that Mr W completed also included declarations that set out the importance of providing accurate information and the potential consequences of any 
errors in this regard:
I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate in any 
material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to gain, or gaining, a 
financial advantage dishonestly and as such will be liable to criminal 
prosecution for fraud  as well as to the forfeiture of all loan proceeds 
Having reasonably determined that S was ineligible for the loan it had obtained, I dont think 
TSB did anything wrong in the steps it took to recover the funds. Under the terms and 
conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, the bank was entitled to terminate the loan and 
demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where any 
representations or statements made by S proved to be incorrect or inaccurate  as was the 
case here.
Under the terms and conditions of Ss account and the loan agreement, TSB had the right 
of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held in any other account with 
TSB by S towards the repayment of any amounts owed to the bank. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong in removing the funds from Ss account and paying down the debt in the 
manner it did.
The restriction and closure of the bank account
I appreciate that the immediate restriction of Ss account and its subsequent closure will 
have caused the company some difficulties. But TSB was allowed to take such actions in 
certain circumstances under the applicable terms and conditions, and I think it was justified 
in doing so here in light of the issues Ive outlined above. The bank wasnt obliged to give S 
advance notice of the restriction or explain the reasons for its actions. 
Mr W is unhappy that TSB continued to allow funds to credit the account while it was 
restricted, with these funds then being held by the bank and applied to pay down the Bounce 
Back Loan. But the bank wasnt obliged to return these payments and didnt do anything 
wrong in continuing to accept payments into the account while it was conducting a review. 
As I dont think TSB did anything wrong in restricting or closing Ss account, it follows that 
there is no basis on which I could fairly require it to compensate the company for any losses 
these actions may have caused.
I do, though, think TSB should have resolved matters sooner than it did. The bank initiated 
its review in early November 2020 and took four months to reach its decision. Its records 
suggest that it only contacted Mr W for some further information in late February 2021. Even 
accepting what the bank has said of the circumstances it was operating under at the time, I 
think this delay was unreasonable. 
There was no set timeframe within which a review such as this had to be completed. It was 
always going to take the bank some time, with S being unable to use its account for a 
number of weeks. But the avoidable delay meant that Mr W spent more time and trouble 
chasing things up than ought to have been necessary. He called and wrote to TSB on a 
number of occasions, and ultimately had to spend more time on this matter  taking him 
away from running the company  than he would have done were it not for the unreasonable 
delay. I think TSB should compensate S for this inconvenience and £200 is a fair amount in 
the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require TSB Bank plc to 
pay S compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman