DRN-2976031
The complaint
M complains that a valuation carried out on behalf of Shawbrook Bank Limited, as part of 
Ms mortgage application, was incorrect and inaccurate.
This complaint is brought by the director of M. But for clarity Ive largely just referred to M in 
my decision.
What happened
M applied for a commercial mortgage with Shawbrook, via a broker. The mortgage was to be 
secured on a property M already owned.
As part of the application Shawbrook required a valuation of the property, so it could decide 
if it was willing to lend to the level requested. M was required to pay for this valuation as part 
of the application. 
Shawbrook instructed a valuation through its panel of surveyors. The valuation was carried 
out by an independent third-party. The valuation came back lower than M had expected. And 
it meant that, while Shawbrook was still willing to lend, the level of borrowing it would allow 
was below what M was seeking.
M, through its director, did not agree with the valuation. They felt the value given was 
significantly lower than what the property was worth. And they also said there were a 
number of statements in the valuation report that they disputed or were inaccurate. M 
complained to Shawbrook about the valuation. It also raised issue with the third-party 
surveyor directly.
The third-party surveyor agreed independently to reassess the value of the property. It 
amended its report, following some of the objections from M, and increased its valuation of 
the property. But it still valued the property at less than M was expecting.
M still felt the valuation was too low and informed Shawbrook of its dissatisfaction. 
Shawbrook had the valuation audited by another third party, which said that it didnt think the 
valuation given was unreasonable. Shawbrook felt it was therefore reasonable for it to 
accept the valuation. And based the amount it was willing to lend on this. 
Unhappy with this response, M asked our service to consider the complaint. M said it had 
instructed a separate valuation, which had valued the property higher than the third-party 
Shawbrook had instructed. And indeed, the third-party had made a number of changes to its 
own report when it had carried out the second valuation. So, it felt this proved the valuation 
hadnt been carried out correctly and was still wrong. And as M had paid for the valuation, it 
didnt feel it had been treated fairly.
One of our investigators considered matters. Having done so, he didnt think Shawbrook 
had acted unreasonably. He explained that Shawbrook wasnt responsible for the contents 
of the report and he didnt think it had acted unfairly by relying on the valuation as it had 
been carried out by a suitably qualified third party.
M did not agree. It said that it maintained the valuation was incorrect and the only reason the 
surveyor would not amend it further was that this wouldve brought it under scrutiny from the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). And M said it understood that the third-
party was in fact under review by RICS. M also remained dissatisfied that it had paid for the 
valuation and, to now secure funding, would have to pay for another one, as part of any 
further application.
As M did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common industry practice that as part of any mortgage application the lender will usually 
require a valuation of the property. This is to ensure that the property is a suitable security in 
line with its lending criteria. I dont think it was unreasonable of Shawbrook to require one 
here. Where a valuation is required, Shawbrook is expected to appoint an appropriately 
qualified third-party to carry this out.
M says that the valuation contained a number of inaccuracies and that the value attributed to 
the property was too low. I understand the contents of the valuation and the actions of the 
third-party surveyor are a large part of what M is unhappy with. But while the valuation was 
done for Shawbrooks purposes, as confirmed in the valuation report, it did not carry out the 
valuation. Essentially it has requested the independent opinion of the surveyor in order to 
decide if, and at what level, it is willing to lend. And it isnt responsible for the contents of the 
valuation, how the third-party surveyor carried out the valuation or whether the third party 
met the professional standards applicable to it. So, all I can consider is whether Shawbrook 
has done anything wrong or acted unfairly.
As Ive said, I dont think it was unreasonable of Shawbrook to require a valuation of the 
property. The third-party appointed to carry out the valuation was appropriately qualified. So, 
I dont think it was wrong of Shawbrook to rely on its opinion, when this was provided.
When M raised concerns over the valuation, Shawbrook referred it for an independent audit. 
Which I think was fair. This audit, by a different, independent third-party, said that the 
valuation was not unreasonable. So, at that stage Shawbrook had received the independent 
opinion of two separate, appropriately qualified third parties. 
Based on this, I think Shawbrook has acted fairly and reasonably by relying on the valuation 
provided to it when making its lending decision.
M has provided a copy of an independent report it commissioned, which placed a higher 
value on the property. But I dont think this means that Shawbrook was wrong to rely on the 
valuation carried out on its behalf. It is not uncommon that different surveyors will have 
differing opinions of a propertys valuation. And as Ive said, the surveyor Shawbrook 
appointed was appropriately qualified, and Shawbrook had that opinion audited.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Shawbrook has made an error when using 
the valuation it obtained, to consider the application. And Ive seen nothing else that leads 
me to think its lending decision was unfair.
M has raised unhappiness at having paid for the valuation and now having to potentially pay 
for another one, to secure the funding it is seeking. It is also a common part of mortgage applications that any valuation for lending purposes will be paid for by the applicant and is 
non-refundable in the event the application doesnt go ahead. M, the applicant, paid for the 
valuation here. And the valuation was carried out  so the service that was paid for was 
provided, albeit M is unhappy with the outcome of this. I havent seen anything to suggest it 
was incorrect of Shawbrook to ask it to do so or that the fee for this was refundable in the 
event the application didnt proceed. And this is ultimately what happened here.
So, while I understand M is unhappy, I dont think the fee has been charged incorrectly. And 
as Ive already explained, I dont think Shawbrook has made any errors here. So, I cant 
reasonably require it to refund the cost of the valuation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman