DRN-2557121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have declined a claim for theft under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
There isnt any dispute Mr and Mrs Cs property was burgled. The thief has been caught 
and dealt with accordingly by the authorities. The question here however is whether the 
policy endorsement relating to security of the windows was met, and if AXA has acted 
fairly in declining the claim. For me to decide if AXA has acted fairly and reasonably, I 
need to be persuaded the breach of the endorsement was material to the loss.
For a theft claim to be covered the endorsement requires all accessible windows to have 
key operated locks. Mr and Mrs Cs property is listed and has wooden door frames. The 
bay window in question has a main window with a key operated lock and a smaller 
window above that has a window stay. It is thought the thief forced entry to the smaller 
window with a screwdriver and then gained access to the property through the main 
window. Im satisfied the smaller window was accessible and therefore the policy 
endorsement was breached, as it didnt have a key operated lock.
Mr and Mrs Cs property is in a relatively rural location, and there were other thefts 
committed in the area by the thief at the same time. Given the age of the property, and 
the wider circumstances in which the theft happened, while a lockable window stay may 
have made it more difficult to enter the property, I think its more likely than not in this 
instance the thief would have broken in regardless. Based on this, Im not satisfied the 
policy endorsement was material to the loss. In this instance, I think AXA should meet Mr 
and Mrs Cs claim.
AXA has referred to another decision made by this service where a security 
endorsement was enforced. Id remind AXA that we review each case on the basis of its 
own circumstances. In any event, the case AXA has referred to has a different point of 
entry and security requirements. It is therefore not relevant in this instance. 
It is evident that AXA could have dealt with the claim more smoothly and it offered £100 
to reflect this. However, I agree with the investigator that the level of service was poor 
and £200 more accurately reflects the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs C were caused. 
AXA should pay compensation of this amount to Mr and Mrs C.
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim, less any applicable excess. It should also add 
interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
AXA should also pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. It 
should put things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman