DRN-3918727
The complaint
Ms B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AMEX) still 
produce statements for a closed account. And responded to a Subject Access Request 
(SAR) using an out-of-date email address. She would like all her data removed, an apology, 
compensation, and a donation to charity.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Ms Bs frustration. Despite her account being closed after bankruptcy 
proceedings over ten years ago AMEX still produce, albeit they dont issue, 
statements on her account. AMEX has explained that as Ms B left AMEX with an 
unpaid debt, statements are still produced internally  as the debt was shelved not 
written off. That might seem unusual to Ms  B but its not for us to comment on 
business processes. Importantly, I understand no debt is being pursued, no interest 
or charges are being added to the account, and no information is being reported to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). So, there is no detriment to Ms B.
I appreciate also that due to the  passage of time Ms B would like all her data 
removed. AMEX has explained it has different retention periods for different sorts of 
data, and under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) there is not an 
absolute right of erasure. AMEX obviously feels it has grounds to retain some data. 
As Ms B isnt happy with this she might want to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to investigate this.
Finally, I appreciate Ms Bs frustration that AMEX used an out-of-date email address 
to respond to her SAR request. It has explained it responded to the email address it 
had on its records. That doesnt seem unreasonable to me. I understand the correct 
contact details have now been recorded.
As I havent found AMEX to have done anything wrong I cant reasonably ask AMEX 
to remove Ms Bs data, apologise or pay compensation. And even if I had found 
AMEX to be at fault we dont make awards to third parties such as donations to 
charities as Ms B has requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman