DRN-3594852
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) avoided their policy (treated it 
like it never existed) and refused to pay their claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K took out a home insurance policy with QIC through a price comparison 
website. The policy then renewed over a number of years. Mr K and Mrs K made a claim on 
their policy when their home was burgled and a number of items of jewellery were stolen. 
Following a decision issued by this service that it should deal with the claim, QIC valued the 
jewellery at an amount that was significantly higher than the items were insured for under the 
policy. 
QIC said Mr K and Mrs K had answered the question about the total cost of their valuables 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
When Mr K and Mrs K complained to QIC, it maintained its decision. So, Mr K and Mrs K 
brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was careless, rather than 
deliberate or reckless. So, she said the action QIC had taken was reasonable.
Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They said QIC had incorrectly valued the jewellery and they had never been asked to value 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC has said Mr K and Mrs K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they answered the question about the cost to replace their valuables when they took 
out the policy, including when it renewed.
Ive looked at the question Mr K and Mrs K were asked. This said:
Is a total of £10,000 enough to cover all valuables (each worth £2,000 or less) inside your 
home?
The answer given to this question was Yes.
I dont think Mr K and Mrs K took reasonable care when they answered this question. This is 
because I think this was a clear question that asked Mr K and Mrs K to consider the total 
value of their valuables and individual valuables and whether the sums were enough. When 
Mr K and Mrs K made the claim for the stolen jewellery, they listed 53 items, several of 
which were made of gold and some had precious stones. QIC valued the jewellery at 
£47,593, or £32,151.55 if a discounted rate was applied. Both of these figures are 
significantly more than the £10,000 for which valuables were insured.
Im aware that Mr K and Mrs K disagree that the jewellery was worth that amount and have 
said it has been overvalued. They have provided a list from the police which showed various 
items of jewellery and the amount a pawnbroker paid for Mr K and Mrs Ks items when the 
person who committed the burglary sold them. However, Im not persuaded this was a 
proper valuation of the items at their full value given the circumstances in which they were 
sold.
Mr K and Mrs K have also said they didnt have any reason to think the jewellery was worth 
as much as it was and that it was now worth much more than they paid for the items, several 
of which were bought many years ago. They said some items were also bought second 
hand. However, given the number of items and that several of them were made of gold, I 
think it was reasonable to expect that their value would have increased over time. 
The policy booklet said the sums insured needed to reflect the full value and that this was 
how much it would currently cost to replace each item as new. It also said:
The value of some of your personal belongings and valuables is likely to vary over time. We
recommend that you review the valuation of any specific items regularly (at least every two
years) and get professional advice if necessary. Please let us know if the value of any of 
these items changes, otherwise you may find yourself overinsured or underinsured.
The policy explained that Valuables were:
Articles made from or containing gold, silver and other precious metals or stone, jewellery 
(including costume jewellery), watches, devices such as a camera or camcorder (including 
any accessories) where the main function is to take photos or video recordings (but not 
including those meant for professional use), telescopes, binoculars, clocks, barometers, furs 
and works of art which belong to you or your family or which you are legally responsible for.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr K and Mrs K therefore misrepresented the 
value of their jewellery.
For a misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, it needs to be shown that the 
misrepresentation affected what the insurer would have done had it known the correct 
situation. QIC has provided the underwriting criteria that shows had it known the actual value 
of the valuables, it wouldnt have been able to offer a quote and so wouldnt have offered the policy at all. This means Im satisfied Mr K and Mrs Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one. 
QIC said it accepted Mr K and Mrs Ks misrepresentation was a careless error and wasnt a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. In the circumstances, I agree that was a fair 
assessment of what happened. QIC avoided the policy, declined the claim and returned the 
unused premiums. This was in line with what it should have done under CIDRA.
Having considered all of the above, I think it was reasonable for QIC to take the action it did. 
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require QIC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman