DRN-3619722
The complaint
Miss E says Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi)  which was trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance at the time  has unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In November 2019, Miss E borrowed £17,500 from Mitsubishi to pay for some dental 
procedures for her aunt, Ms B.
At the end of November 2019, Ms B had 16 teeth removed  which were supposedly 
replaced with 8 implants. Miss E says the dentists bedside manner was terrible and he 
didnt explain to Ms B what was happening at each stage, and there was significant bleeding 
immediately after the procedure.
In January 2020, Ms B had some stitches removed, and she was seen by the dentist on two 
occasions between November 2019 and March 2020 because of infections.
Ms B was due to see the dentist on 6 March 2020 for the next stage of her treatment, but 
this was postponed until 18 March 2020  she was told the dentist had damaged his arm, 
although Ms B says the dentist was actually in Italy, and self-isolating because hed 
contracted Covid-19.
At this point, Ms B and her family considered the situation critical, as it was the early stages 
of the pandemic and Ms B was high risk. They approached a charity for help in finding a 
different dentist who could complete the rest of her treatment.
The new dentist  who charged a consultation fee of £155  said Ms B had only 6 implants, 
rather than the 8 she was supposed to have. He also said there may be an underlying issue 
related to one of Ms Bs medical conditions and wanted a letter from her GP before hed do 
any more work. This dentist didnt treat an infection Ms B had at the time  and the family 
werent reassured by his suggestion that Ms B return to her original dentist.
In or around August 2020, Miss E contacted Mitsubishi, which referred a complaint from 
Miss E to the dental practice. In October 2020, the dental practice refunded the cost of 
Ms Bs remaining treatment (£9,319.50) to Miss Es loan account.
Miss E then referred her complaint to our service. She says Ms B suffered a serious trauma 
and remains toothless, which has affected her ability to eat and talk. She has sporadic pain 
and occasional bleeding. And Miss E says shes struggled financially and emotionally, trying 
to help her aunt during this difficult time. She says her credit rating has been utterly ruined.
Miss E wants a full refund of all monies paid and the outstanding loan balance to be written 
off.
One of our investigators explained that section 75 of the CCA doesnt apply in this case 
because the relationship thats required between Miss E, the dental practice and Mitsubishi 
doesnt exist here.
Ms B says its heartless for us (or Mitsubishi) to rely on a technicality to reject her claim 
and complaint.
And in detailed written submissions, she says that when Miss E agreed terms with 
[Mitsubishi], she was acting in a full and complete legal capacity on my behalf. Ms B has 
sent us a copy of a general power of attorney form dated 18 October 2019  which is signed 
by Ms B and appoints Miss E to be [her] Attorney in accordance with section 10 of the 
Powers of Attorney Act 1971. She has also provided a letter from the Department for Work 
and Pensions dated 13 March 2020, which shows that Miss E was in receipt of carers 
allowance  and Ms B says this shows Miss E was her carer.
Finally, Ms B has highlighted the following from section 2 of the Pre-Contract Credit 
Information form: [Mitsubishi] will pay the total amount of credit to the supplier of the 
goods/services once they have been supplied to you. She says this implies that the services 
should be complete  and maintains the services have instead been abandoned by the 
dental practice.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2022, which included the following provisional 
findings:
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
For section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) of the CCA (as the loan in this case is a restricted-use credit agreement). What 
this means is the credit agreement must finance a transaction between Miss E (the debtor) 
and the dental practice (the supplier).
However, the dental practice almost certainly entered into an agreement with Ms B not 
Miss E. I say this because Ms B  notwithstanding any power of attorney  signed both the 
treatment plan estimate dated 5 November 2019 and an informed consent for dental 
implants herself.
Ive carefully considered Ms Bs contention that Miss E was acting in a full and complete 
legal capacity on [her] behalf when she agreed terms with Mitsubishi.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I disagree. Miss E may manage Ms Bs financial 
affairs, but this loan agreement is in Miss Es name, and includes Miss Es personal details  
including her address, marital status, date of birth and employment details. It makes no 
reference to Ms B. Nor does the pre-contract information or any post-contract 
correspondence. Ive therefore seen no evidence that Miss E borrowed the money in 
anything other than a personal capacity. The fact that Miss Es personal credit rating has, in 
her words, been utterly ruined, tends to support this conclusion.
I know that Miss E and Ms B will be very disappointed, but this means there isnt a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b)  which means section 75 of the CCA 
doesnt apply.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms B  and in no way do I mean to dismiss or diminish 
what shes been through. But because section 75 doesnt apply, Mitsubishi isnt responsible 
or legally answerable for any breach of contract by the dental practice.Finally, Ms B makes an interesting point about section 2 of the Pre-Contract Credit 
Information. However, the dental practice has refunded the cost of the treatment Ms B 
hasnt received. It did so in response to a complaint from Miss E and/or Ms B  so I dont 
agree that the dental work was abandoned. As Miss E has only paid for the treatment Ms B 
received, even if shes unhappy with it, I dont think Mitsubishi needs to take any further 
action.
I asked Ms B, Miss E and Mitsubishi to send me any additional comments or evidence they 
wanted me to consider by 20 July 2022. I havent received anything from anyone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been asked to consider any additional comments or evidence, I confirm my 
provisional findings. My reasons remain the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman