DRN-4525040
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car financed by MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as 
Mann Island (MI).
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I will only summarise these briefly 
here.
Mr H was supplied a second-hand car on hire purchase from MI in September 2022. 
However, he is not happy with the quality of the car. In summary, Mr H initially complained 
to MI about:
 Air conditioning not working
 Grinding brakes
 Issues with cruise control
 Driver seatbelt unclipping
 Loose and missing trim on the car 
 Rear seatbelt trim detaching 
 USB connector not working/loose mic
 Whirring noise
Some of these things were initially repaired by the dealer  but some occurred afterwards 
and remained unresolved. MI offered Mr H further repairs in its final response, but Mr H is 
not happy with its offer.
Our investigator thought that MIs offer was more than he would have recommended in the 
circumstances so did not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Since then Mr H has identified other issues with the car including:
 Front passenger seat becoming detached from its base; and
 a fault with the injectors.
Mr H wants to reject the car for a refund, and said he has been asking for this from a very 
early stage. He has asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to resolve disputes informally  so I wont be commenting on everything put 
forward by the parties  I will focus on the matters I consider central to this complaint.
I note here that several issues have arisen post MI issuing its final response letter. 
However, these appear to be broadly connected with the issues Mr H initially complained 
about, or are issues which MI has been willing to investigate and give its view on while the 
matter has been with this service. So I am proceeding on the basis that these later issues 
are matters I can fairly and reasonably make a finding on here.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MI is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
I note that Mr H has referred to using the car for work  however, it appears that he entered 
into the finance agreement in a personal capacity and uses this car as his personal family 
vehicle. So I am satisfied that he was acting primarily as a consumer rather than a business 
here when he was supplied the car. In which case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of 
particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says the quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
MI supplied Mr H with a second-hand car. Here I note the car had travelled 57,975 miles 
and was around 6 years old at the point of supply. So it is fair to say that the reasonable 
person would accept that it is likely to require more repairs and maintenance than a newer, 
less road worn car.  However, I have also seen the description for the car in the 
advertisement and note that it is described as a stunning car and in great condition which 
would raise the expectations of the reasonable person as to the condition of the car as 
supplied and its freedom from certain defects. Furthermore while the price agreed here of 
£15,999 would be less than the new price, it is still a significant amount of money for a car 
in any event. I have taken all this into account when determining what is fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances here.
Mr H has provided a detailed and credible timeline of the issues he has had with this car 
since the start.  One of the things that stands out for me is the highlighting of numerous 
safety issues within the first few weeks and months of use. These are:
Driver seatbelt unclipping by itself  identified in the first week following supply.
Rear seatbelt trim plate becoming detached and causing injury to his son  identified 
3-4 weeks following supply.Front passenger seat base coming loose  identified within the first 6 months after 
supply.
Looking at the requirements around satisfactory quality, regardless of whether a car is 
second-hand it needs to be sold in a safe condition. From the evidence I have seen I am not 
satisfied that it was. I also think that based on these issues alone Mr H has a reasonable 
cause for rejection of the car. I will explain why.
The first issue with the driver seatbelt is clearly something that could be very dangerous. It 
was apparently highlighted by Mr H within days of taking delivery of the car on 5th 
September 2022 and was remedied shortly after. I can see the dealership confirm the 
following:
The issue with the seat belt not clicking fully in we have cleaned out the buckle and lube the 
internal mechanism , this is now operating as it should
So my starting point here is there has been an apparent breach of contract (as in the car not 
being of satisfactory quality due to a significant safety defect) within 30 days of Mr H taking 
the car.
Mr H has then explained that after he took back the car he had cause to use the rear middle 
seatbelt for the first time on 1st October 2022. However, he says the plastic trim plate in the 
ceiling that holds the belt in place detached and fell into his sons face. Mr H is naturally very 
upset about this and has shown a picture of the detached plate, the unsightly hole in the 
ceiling of the car left as a result of this and the injury sustained to his son.
Although the detached part has a cosmetic role it is also a part the seat belt threads through 
the ceiling of the car. If this is improperly secured it poses a clear safety risk. While I dont 
know the exact circumstances of said detachment what Mr H has said is credible and 
consistent and supported with photographic evidence. Furthermore, it seems plausible in 
light of the other issues Mr H identified with the car around that time which indicate a 
general theme around loose and missing internal trim  some of which clearly relate to 
significant safety features of the car.
It is quite clear that after this incident Mr H wanted to reject the car  he says he wrote to 
the dealer to express his desire to reject it on 3rd October 2022 but was told he had to 
accept further repairs which he didnt really want. I can see in an email where Mr H does at 
one point accept repairs but he is clearly reluctant to, which is consistent with his account 
that he expressed a desire to return the car but was prevented from doing so.
I think it is arguable that in light of the provisions of the CRA and specifically the 30 day right 
to reject Mr H should have been allowed to reject the car when I am persuaded he asked to 
in early October 2022.
However, even if I put aside the issue with the rear seatbelt I note that a few months later 
Mr H said he discovered the front passenger seat was coming away from its base shortly 
before he was due to take the car on a family holiday. This again is consistent with the 
theme that the car was sold in a condition where the internal fixings were damaged or 
loose. Mr H has provided a credible video showing the issue  and it appears to be a safety 
issue that would render even a second-hand car of unsatisfactory quality. I appreciate MI 
has not fully looked into this issue to rule out the causes  but considering the other trim 
issues it stands to reason that this is likely something not caused by Mr H misusing the car 
or usually expected wear and tear but a point of sale fault or issue around durability that a reasonable person would not expect to have occurred (particularly as it was identified within 
the first 6 months of purchase).
Although the issue with the front passenger seat was not identified within the first 30 days 
from supply I note that it is a likely breach of contract which comes after an opportunity to 
repair the car (for the initial seat belt issue amongst other things). So in line with the CRA 
Mr H has the option to forgo repair and elect his final right to reject.
In summary, I consider the issues around the seatbelts and front passenger seat give rise to 
either the short term right to reject, or the final right to reject under the CRA. So on the face 
of it Mr H should have been able to reject the car previously but was apparently refused this 
opportunity.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable here I have also looked at the other issues Mr H has 
complained about which occurred at an early stage. I think some are arguably down to 
reasonably expected wear and tear in a second-hand car. However, considering the 
description of the car as stunning and great condition I think that having issues with the air 
conditioning and cruise control so soon after supply are not what a reasonable person 
would expect. Furthermore, although the issues with missing or loose trim (apart from those 
I have mentioned prior) and USB connection are arguably cosmetic and more minor  the 
expectation around the car based on the description (including listing the USB connection 
as a feature) does mean that these things have more weight in the overall assessment of 
satisfactory quality than they would otherwise.
So I think that looking at what is fair and reasonable here  aside from the safety issues 
mentioned previously there is an argument to say other factors (individually or cumulatively) 
have rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality shortly after purchase and gave Mr H the 
right to reject the goods either because he was still within the timeframe to assert the short 
term right to reject, or because (due to previous repairs) he was able to exercise the final 
right to reject. 
I note that Mr H has also described later issues with the injectors and service messages 
relating to the 4x4 system. I think it is arguable, considering the mileage Mr H has travelled 
in the car since the point of supply (in excess of 15,000 miles) and the overall age and 
mileage of the car that these later issues are down to reasonably expected wear and tear. 
However, I dont consider I need to look into these issues in more detail because ultimately 
I am satisfied that Mr H had the right to reject the car much sooner for other reasons  and I 
am satisfied that he has been unfairly prevented from doing this.
I know that MI has offered to take the car back to look at carrying out inspections and further 
repairs  but I dont think that is a fair resolution here in accordance with the remedies 
afforded to Mr H in the CRA. While I do accept that continuing to drive the car and having 
repairs carried out to it (which Mr H appears to have done) is not necessarily consistent with 
rejection I do understand that Mr H has explained he has had to continue using the car as 
he depends on it. And as I have mentioned  he was unfairly denied his right to reject at an 
earlier stage in any event. If Mr H had no other option than to continue using the car for his 
work and family then I do not consider it fair and reasonable for him to lose the right to 
reject it as a result.
Mr H has travelled notable mileage in the car since he has had it. So I dont consider it fair 
to refund him any of his payments to date. I note there does not appear to be a deposit or 
part exchange here so I will not be directing the business to refund in this respect. Mr H says he has had repairs carried out to the engine for £800. I dont think it fair he 
should bear this cost if he is not going to benefit from it going forward so if he is able to 
produce an invoice and proof of his payment for the work I am likely to direct MI to pay this 
in my final decision. I know Mr H has also paid out for servicing and some other 
maintenance but I dont consider it fair to refund him for this because of the significant 
mileage he has covered and the likely cost of upkeep for a second-hand car during the 
period of use in any event. 
However, I do recognise that Mr H has not had the experience he should have had with the 
car. With various things not functioning as they should and impacting his ability to use the 
car as intended (for example he has said that the loose seat on the front passenger side 
impacted the use of that seat). I appreciate this is a second-hand car and that some issues 
are cosmetic so would not have had significant impact on his overall use though. This is not 
a science but all in all I think a 5% refund of his payments to date would be a fair way of 
remedying this.
I also think that Mr H has been caused distress and inconvenience with the quality issues 
with the car  with inconvenience contacting the dealer and MI and also ongoing concern 
about the safety issues. I cant make an award for personal injury to his son here as Mr H is 
the eligible complainant - but no doubt the issue caused Mr H alarm. Overall, I think a £300 
award for distress and inconvenience is fair here and in line with the awards set out on our 
website.
I know that Mr H has considered court action and has involved lawyers. This service is 
informal and free to use so I dont consider Mr H should be reimbursed for any legal costs 
or his own time in preparing his case. 
If Mr H does not agree with my decision he is of course free to choose to pursue court 
action if he wishes. Or he can come to some other arrangement with MI based on its offer to 
take another look at the car. However, I hope the parties can use my decision as an 
opportunity to draw a line under this and move forward in a positive way.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island to:
accept rejection of the car  collecting this at no further cost to Mr H and ending the 
finance agreement;
pay Mr H for the repairs to the engine (on the basis the costs are suitably evidenced 
as I have discussed above);
refund Mr H a 5% refund of each monthly payment he has made to date;
pay Mr H 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If MI considers it should deduct tax from my interest award then it should provide Mr H with a 
certificate of tax deduction.
I asked the parties for their responses. I have summarised these as follows:
Mr H broadly agrees with the decision. He has provided evidence to show the engine repair 
cost £240 and would like to reclaim this. He also thinks it fair he gets back £140 for some of 
the initial servicing he had done on the car considering the payments he has made for the car overall, his £600 legal fees, and the unreceipted fixes of £80 for the wheel bearing and 
£60 for the seat.
MI says:
it disagrees that the car is primarily used as a family car and points out Mr Hs 
colleague had used the car;
the car was supplied used and the cosmetic issues regarding trim would have been 
noticeable upon a visual inspection;
in regard to the seatbelt trim being detached and passenger seat base coming loose 
the car didnt have these concerns on delivery and there is no evidence to confirm 
an inherent fault is the cause versus something that happened while in the 
customers possession;
if the customer has covered a substantial amount of mileage between the engine 
repair and now there is an argument he has benefitted from the repair and it would 
be unjustified to refund this in full; and
given the mileage the consumer has covered it would argue the customer has not 
had any impaired use of the car.
In response to what MI said Mr H has provided further information to explain that he uses 
his car for work but that primarily it is used as a personal car. And that his partner is the 
other person who occasionally uses the car for commuting but happens to work with him. 
He has also provided an up to date mileage reading to show he has travelled 28,975 miles 
in the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MI has questioned Mr Hs use of the car and indicates it is a business vehicle. I think it is 
clear to me that Mr H does use the car for work trips. However, from what Mr H has said and 
explained most of the mileage appears to relate to personal use. He has also explained a 
misunderstanding that MI had about his colleague using the car. So I am willing to accept 
that the car while used for business is mainly for purposes outside of that  I dont think MI 
has proved otherwise. And therefore the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies here. However, 
it is worth noting that even if I accepted MIs submission on this I dont consider it would 
make a difference to my decision in any event. I say this because other relevant law would 
apply and also imply a term into the contract between MI and Mr H that the car should be of 
satisfactory quality. It would also give him access to the remedy of rejection  which I think 
is a fair remedy here in the circumstances as I have said above, particularly in light of the 
safety issues discussed above.
In relation to MIs point about defects being discoverable by a visual inspection I agree some 
cosmetic issues ought to have been revealed by this. However, I dont think the non-
cosmetic issues (including those relating to safety) I have outlined in my provisional findings 
would be revealed by a visual inspection. Nor do I think any visual inspection would 
reasonably have been that detailed considering the description of the car. So I dont think 
this submission changes things here.Furthermore, while MI suggest certain issues are not inherent faults I consider matters on 
the balance of probabilities. Here I note Mr Hs credible testimony and how soon after supply 
many of these issues came to light. I also consider there no evidence Mr H misused the car 
and note that when certain issues were inspected (like the unclipping seat belt) there was no 
suggestion that Mr H had caused this. There is also an overall consistent theme relating to 
loose parts in different areas of the car that suggests to me a wider underlying issue present 
or developing at the point of sale. So I am not minded to change my findings on what are 
likely inherent faults here.
I note MIs submission about Mr Hs notable use of the car and I accept that his use is above 
average for the time he has had it. To reflect his high mileage, and be fair to MI:
I am not recommending that Mr H get the costs of the minor repairs or services he is 
claiming
I am only recommending a relatively small amount of compensation for impaired use 
but otherwise MI is retaining all Mr Hs payments 
I still dont think Mr H should pay for every repair that he has made to the car here as some 
of this will relate to future benefit. So I am directing MI to pay for the engine repair. I think 
this is fair despite Mr Hs significant mileage considering it is actually a lot less than first 
thought (£240 rather than £800) and noting I am not agreeing to refund Mr H for the other 
costs he is claiming. I note MIs points about the engine issues and potential causes relating 
to wear and tear from ongoing use  but I also note that had MI taken the car back when it 
should have Mr H would never have had to keep using the car and deal with this issue. All 
things considered MI should fairly pay for this.
I know MI has questioned whether Mr H should get compensated for impaired use at all 
considering his mileage but my direction is for a low amount considering his ongoing high 
usage. Furthermore, whatever mileage Mr H chooses to do it cant be argued that the car 
was working as it should have been throughout that time due to certain inherent faults. So I 
think a relatively small amount to reflect this is still fair.
Putting things right
MI should put things right as set out below for the reasons explained here (and incorporating 
my provisional findings as set out above).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island to:
 accept rejection of the car  collecting this at no further cost to Mr H and ending the 
finance agreement;
 pay Mr H £240 for the repairs he has paid out for to date;
 refund Mr H 5% of each monthly payment he has made to date;
 pay Mr H 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
 pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If MI considers it should deduct tax from my interest award then it should provide Mr H with a 
certificate of tax deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman