DRN-1603913
 
The complaint
Ms S applied for a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC and is unhappy with what happened with 
the survey of the property. Whilst Ms S paid for a homebuyer report, she didnt receive a 
copy of the report before she bought the property, and shes now discovered serious defects 
with the property.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Lloyds doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 
Lloyds isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by 
the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
Lloyds is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Lloyds is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having 
considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Lloyds did all it had to do, which was collect the fee, instruct the correct survey (the 
homebuyer report) and pass the fee onto the surveying firm. Everything else is a dispute 
between Ms S and the surveying firm. Normally Id tell Ms S to contact the surveying firm 
directly if she wanted to complain about the survey but shes already done so and accepted 
compensation from them. 
Lenders dont get copies of the homebuyer report and cant get involved in matters that are 
between the consumer and the surveying firm. Lloyds had all it needed to decide whether it 
was willing to agree to a mortgage, which was the short Property Risk Assessment (PRA) 
valuation report.
I understand Ms S wants her mortgage written off but theres no grounds for me to order that 
as Lloyds did nothing wrong. It instructed the report Ms S paid for and the short PRA report it 
received didnt highlight any issues with the property such that it wouldnt have been 
considered as suitable security for the mortgage. It granted the mortgage in good faith.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman