DRN-1121641
 
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about eight short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between February 
2014 and December 2018. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 12/02/2014 22/03/2014 1 £700.00 £875.00
2 14/04/2014 28/04/2014 1 £350.00 £455.00
3 02/05/2014 28/05/2014 1 £400.00 £520.00
4 29/05/2014 30/06/2014 1 £350.00 £455.00
5 01/07/2014 04/08/2014 1 £900.00 £1,170.00
6 01/09/2014 18/09/2014 3 £1,000.00 £633.33
7 05/10/2014 27/03/2015 3 £1,000.00 £633.33
break
8 30/12/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £213.83
 
The balance on loan 8 remains outstanding at the time of writing this decision. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loans 1 to 7 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr H as the repayment cost for loan 1 was a significant portion of his income. 
Mr Lender disagreed but it offered to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 2, 6, 7 and 8. The 
offer was put to Mr H, but he didnt accept it.  
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.   
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
There was a significant break in Mr Hs borrowing from Mr Lender. There was a gap of over 
four years between loans 7 and 8. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view this 
gap as an indication that Mr Hs finances had stabilised. So, I will look at Mr Hs borrowing in 
two separate chains. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 8. Mr H didnt respond to the 
adjudicators explanation. As there appears to no longer be a dispute with this loan, I wont 
be making any further findings on it.  
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 to 7. Ill explain why. Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mr H when he applied for his first loan. 
This included verifying his employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. 
This was Mr Hs first loan with Mr Lender, and I can see that the checks detailed above were 
carried out. However, I think if Mr Lender had properly considered the information it had 
about Mr Hs financial situation and the lending, I think it would have seen that Mr H was not 
able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because Mr H was borrowing £700, which was due to be repaid in one instalment 
plus interest. This meant that Mr H would be repaying £875 from his declared income of 
£1,930. The repayment represented a significant proportion of Mr Hs income and I think   Mr 
Lender ought to have realised this and the potential for Mr H to struggle to make the 
repayment. Given Mr Hs income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of 
Mr H having to borrow again to meet his commitment not just under this loan but for all his 
loans. I think this was proven when Mr H rolled over paying the full amount of loan 1 and 
loan 2. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 7 I say 
this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out seven loans in just under eight months. So, 
 Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Hs first loan was for £700 and loan 7 was for £1,000.  At this point Mr Lender 
ought to have known that it was unlikely Mr H was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Not only was 
loan 7 taken out just under eight months after Mr Hs first, it was also for a larger 
amount. Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr 
Lender over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 7 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 1 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 6 from Mr Hs credit file;
any information recorded about loan 7 is adverse. So, all entries about this loan 
should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
if there is still an outstanding balance then the amount refunded should be used to 
repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
this should be repaid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance, then 
Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman