DRN-2965504
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out by telephone,
by Mrs P to cover a credit card in 2005. Mrs P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her
the PPI.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in July 2021, I said:
Capital One had to make Mrs P aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding it to her card. Capital One has provided a copy of the script it expected its
representatives to follow at the time it sold the policy to Mrs P. The script directed the
representative to present the policy as optional and gain consent before adding it to the card.
I cant be certain of how closely the representative followed the script in Mrs Ps case but I
think it most likely represents what was discussed during the call. So, I think Capital One
made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it was
right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had
available of making her repayments, which included help from her husband. While I accept
Mrs Ps husband would have wanted to help with the repayments I dont think this offer of
help could be guaranteed as it would have been dependent on his circumstances at the
time, which could have changed.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld, as Mrs P told us she was
unemployed when she took out the policy, so she wouldnt have been able to claim on it. But
we gave Mrs P the opportunity to prove she wasnt employed when she applied for the
policy, and she didnt provide any supporting evidence.
With this in mind I am unable to say Mrs P was unemployed, or that she wasnt able to make
use of the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means I dont think Capital One should have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
P.
I gave Capital One and Mrs P time to respond but nothing further was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side provided anything further for me to consider I see no reason to come to a 
different decision to that I reached in my provisional decision,
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman