DRN-3244908
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc converted a payment from his Santander account to 
his overseas account from sterling to Thai Baht in error which caused him financial loss.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In October 2019, Mr J visited a Santander branch to make an international transfer 
from his account to his overseas account.
Mr J says he told Santander he wanted the funds to arrive in sterling, and it shouldnt 
be converted to Thai Baht. 
Mr J says when he arrived in Thailand, he discovered the funds had been converted 
in the UK to Thai Baht and then sent to his account in Thailand. Mr J says he has lost 
a significant amount of money due to the difference in exchange rates and this has 
caused him financial distress and inconvenience.
Santander responded to Mr Js complaint in August 2021. It said it hadnt identified it 
had made an error in processing the payment.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr J requested an 
ombudsman to reconsider it. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In situations like this, I have to consider the evidence and testimony provided by both parties 
in determining what was most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities.
There is no dispute that the transfer was converted to Thai Bahts but what I need to decide 
on is if Santander made an error when completing the transfer.
Ive very limited information to consider, as the transaction happened over two years ago. Mr 
J has said his recollection of events is that he asked Santander to complete the transfer in 
sterling. Mr J says a trainee member of staff was on the counter and was being supervised 
by the branch manager. But he thinks an error occurred and the transfer was done in Thai 
Bahts. 
Santander has said it hasnt been able to gather recollections from staff that were present in 
the branch as it happened over two years ago  this isnt unreasonable considering the time 
that as passed, and in light of the transaction being relatively routine for bank staff. 
Mr J has said that he and his sister have since been into the branch and spoken to the 
branch manager who was supervising the transfer on the day. Hes alleged the manager 
said that he was unaware that the bank sometimes used an intermediary bank to transfer 
money at a less favourable rate. However, the crux of the matter here is the branch manager 
hasnt provided either a statement to Mr J or to Santander confirming that the transaction 
was meant to be in sterling and that an error was made. So, Ive got little to go on in this 
case. And because its one version of events against another, Ive gone on to consider the 
evidence available from the time.
I can see Mr J signed a payment request form and received an international transfer issued - 
receipt. Mr J has since said because it had the amount to be debited showing in sterling and 
0.00 next to THB he thought this meant that the payment was going to be in sterling. Mr J 
has also said there was no exchange rate or value next to the THB on his receipt. 
Santander has said the fee and rates wouldve been discussed at the time, and Mr J 
wouldve been asked to check and confirm the information entered onto the portal was 
correct. But as the rates fluctuate it says it isnt until the funds are released that a 
confirmation letter is generated that shows the exact rate. 
I dont know for certain what was discussed, but it seems unclear to me why this wouldnt 
have been discussed at the time or raised by Mr J if he was unsure. In light of the fluctuating 
rates, I wouldnt expect to see it on the payment request form or receipt. The confirmation 
letter was sent to Mr J later that day. On balance, it seems most likely to me that these rates 
wouldve been discussed in light of the banks processes and the documentation that shows 
the transfer was going to be made into Thai Baht.
Mr J says he had left the country before he wouldve received it. So, he says the first he 
knew of the issue was when he arrived at the bank in Thailand. While I take this into 
account, this doesnt change that Mr J was given the relevant documentation at the time of 
the sale and agreed to the transfer terms and conditions. 
So, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded its most likely Santander made an 
error and I therefore wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman