DRN-3114665
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (SW) didnt give her 
more warning about the losses she was suffering as a result of the volatility in the markets. 
What happened
Mrs C had a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account with SW since 1995. In 2012 
SW removed part of its service with its customers in that it no longer offered an in-branch 
advice service following regulatory changes. 
Between 2019 and 2020 Mrs Cs investment lost value of around £4,500. This prompted her 
to withdraw the majority of her investment in March 2020. The fall in value was largely due to 
the financial markets reaction to the Covid-19 situation. 
Mrs C complained to SW saying it should have done more to alert her to the fall in value of 
investments. She said as a customer SW had a duty of care to her and she didnt think it 
had met this given the losses she suffered.
SW rejected Mrs Cs complaint. It said that as a non-advised service it would not have 
provided this type of advice to Mrs C.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he didnt think SW was 
responsible for keeping Mrs C informed about the performance of her investments, beyond 
the information she could access through its automated phone lines and other explanatory 
material. 
Mrs C disagreed reiterating that she considered SW had a duty of care to keep her informed. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs C, but I wont be addressing 
every single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to 
the outcome of Mrs Cs complaint.
I can see that the service SW initially provided to Mrs C did include advice that could be 
accessed through its branches. But as SW has said this service was withdrawn in 2012. So, 
under these circumstances SW was providing Mrs C with a non-advised service. In any 
event, even if it still provided an in-branch advice service, this still would not have helped 
Mrs C as the advice was only initiated if the customer asked for it. So, the onus was still on 
the customer to monitor the performance of their funds and act accordingly. 
Given the service SW was providing to Mrs C, I dont think it was obliged to proactively 
monitor and regularly report to her about the performance, or likely performance, of her 
investment. Its role was to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about her 
investment, which I can see it did through documents such as the Key Investor Information 
(KII) and the funds prospectus documents. The KII set out the key risks involved in Mrs Cs 
chosen fund which clearly included a warning about the risk of impact of volatile markets on 
the value of the funds.
SW also provided valuations to Mrs C through annual statements. I can see Mrs C also used 
SWs automated phone line service which provided valuations, which she could access at 
any time. Mrs C says this is how she found out about the fall in value of her investment. I 
note what Mrs C says about how frequently she would have had to check this to monitor the 
performance of her investment effectively. And I appreciate this would have taken time to do. 
But I dont think that means SW was obliged to provide a service that it hadnt agreed to 
provide to Mrs C.
Mrs C considers SW had a duty of care to let her know about the significant fall in value. 
But I cant see any circumstances which gave rise to a duty of care to keep her informed 
about this. The information about the impact of the Covid-19 on the financial markets was 
readily available through publicly available sources. And Mrs C did have access to the 
valuation of her particular fund through SWs phone lines. So, I think SW discharged its 
obligations to Mrs C by providing her with clear, fair and not misleading information that she 
could access at any time to monitor the performance of the fund she was invested in. 
For all these reasons, and whilst I know Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman