DRN-1245189
 
The complaint
Miss N complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams reduced her credit limit and 
cancelled her direct debit before passing her account to a debt recovery department.
What happened
Miss N says she had a direct debit in place to pay her Debenhams credit card account. She 
says she received an e-mail from Debenhams on 14 February 2019 telling her that her direct 
debit would be reducing to zero. Miss T says she then cancelled her direct debit but she 
started receiving messages from Debenhams telling her she owed it money. She says she 
refused to pay any money as Debenhams wouldn't explain what had taken place. Miss N 
says Debenhams has now passed her account to a third party business to collect the debt 
and has caused her distress and its actions have affected her credit score.
Miss N would like Debenhams to pay her compensation for what's taken place and reinstate 
her agreement to pay the debt.
Debenhams says Miss N made a payment in store on 12 February 2019 for just over £30. It 
says as a result it stopped the direct debit for that month and wrote to Miss N to tell her. 
Debenhams says Miss N then cancelled the direct debit agreement and didn't make any 
further payments to the outstanding balance. It says it sent her statements and letters telling 
her that there was an outstanding balance and as no payments were received it acted in line 
with account terms and conditions by closing the account and sending her default letters.
Miss N brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Debenhams hadn't made a mistake by reducing the direct debit for February 2019 
following Miss N's payment in store. And wrote to Miss N telling her the direct debit had 
changed for that month. The investigator thought Miss N ought to have known there was an 
outstanding balance as she would have received letters and statements and told us there 
was a balance owed. The investigator also thought Debenhams has acted in line with 
account terms and conditions by taking the steps it did in sending the default notice and 
passing the debt to a third party business to collect it.
Miss N doesn't accept that view and says she was unaware of the balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the same 
overall decision as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I'm satisfied that Miss N made a payment in store towards her outstanding credit card 
balance of just over £30 in February 2019. I can see that as a result of that payment 
Debenhams reduced Miss N's direct debit for that month to zero and wrote and told her that. 
I don't think that letter said every direct debit payment would be zero or gave any indication that Miss N had repaid the full balance as the letter clearly contained the outstanding 
balance Miss N owed. So in those circumstances I don't know why Miss N cancelled the 
direct debit agreement or thought she no longer owed Debenhams any money. I also think 
that Miss N ought to have been aware  that there was an outstanding balance as she 
continued to use the credit card and received regular account statements.
I'm also satisfied that Debenhams wrote to Miss N on numerous occasions about the 
outstanding balance and sent her regular account statements which I think showed the 
balance, spending and the interest and charges being added to the account. I appreciate 
that Miss N says she wanted an explanation from Debenhams before making any payments 
but I'm satisfied she did receive such an explanation and didn't make the required payments.
I find that Debenhams acted in line with the account terms and conditions which I think Miss 
N would have agreed to when the account was opened by  cancelling the agreement . I also 
think Debenhams acted fairly by sending Miss N the default notice as I'm satisfied that the 
relationship between the parties had broken down as Miss N hadn't made a required 
payment for a considerable period of time. Its not clear if a default has been registered on 
Miss N's credit file. But I'm satisfied Debenhams is obliged to accurately report the position 
of Miss N's account to the Credit Reference Agencies and if a default has been registered 
then I don't think that it's made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I don't think Debenhams made a mistake by passing Miss N's account to a third party 
business for collection. I think it's up to Debenhams to make such a decision when 
exercising its commercial judgement but in any event I can see that it has kept control of 
Miss N's account.
Overall I'm satisfied that Debenhams hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I can't 
order it to pay Miss N the compensation she would like. For the reasons I have explained I 
find that Miss N ought to have known about the outstanding balance and was obliged to 
repay it. If Miss N is in financial difficulties then I hope she will speak to Debenhams or any 
of the organisations, details of which she has been given, that may be able to help her. I also 
make clear that I have not seen any evidence of Miss N's credit limit being reduced just the 
agreement ending for the reasons I have set out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman