DRN-2669198
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sesame Limited has failed to treat him fairly when calculating the 
redress he should be paid following the provision of some unsuitable advice about his future 
pension savings in December 2002.   
What happened
The advice that forms the basis to this complaint was provided by an appointed 
representative of Sesame. Although Mr G had no direct dealings with Sesame, it is that firm 
that is responsible for the advice given by its appointed representative, and for dealing with 
Mr Gs complaint. And for ease I will refer to Sesame as the responsible business throughout 
this decision.
In 2002 Mr G was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). He sought advice 
from Sesame about making additional voluntary contributions to his pension. Although Ive 
not seen a copy of the advice Mr G was given, it appears Sesame recommended that he 
make free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVC) to a personal pension. It 
doesnt seem that Sesame suggested that Mr G might want to consider making additional 
contributions to his occupational scheme, or using his additional contributions to purchase 
added years benefits.
In early 2004 Mr G took advantage of an overseas training fellowship offered by his 
employer. He therefore had a break in his employment of just over a year, before returning 
to work in March 2005. He continued making his FSAVC payments to the personal pension 
plan throughout his time overseas, and when he returned to the UK and resumed his 
employment.
In 2019, with the assistance of a claims management company, Mr G complained to 
Sesame about the advice hed been given in 2002. He said that he wasnt told about the 
option of using his additional contributions to purchase added years in the OPS. And he said 
that if hed been given that information that is the option that hed have chosen. Sesame 
agreed with Mr Gs complaint and offered him some compensation.
But Sesames calculation of Mr Gs loss only took account of the period until Mr G went 
overseas in 2004. It said that, since he was away for more than one year, hed have been 
unable to continue any added years contract he might have taken out in 2002. And it said it 
was not possible to determine whether Mr G would have taken a new contract on his return 
to employment in 2005. It said Mr G should have taken new financial advice about his 
pension contributions when he returned to the UK.
Mr G didnt agree with Sesames decision to cap the redress from the point he went abroad 
in 2004. So he brought his complaint to this Service. The complaint has been assessed by 
one of our investigators. She didnt think that there was any evidence to suggest that Mr G 
wouldnt have restarted making added years contributions following his return to the UK. So 
she thought that the complaint should be upheld and asked Sesame to recalculate its offer of 
redress to include the additional period of service.
Sesame didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Sesame. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Sesame has accepted that the advice it gave to Mr G in 2002 was unsuitable. And from what 
I have seen I agree that it seems likely that Mr G would have used his additional pension 
contributions to purchase added years benefits in his OPS if that option had been brought to 
his attention. He had an expectation that he would remain with his employer for the majority 
of his working career and that his salary would increase significantly over his lifetime.
So in this decision I only need to consider what Sesame should do to put things right.
There is little disagreement that Sesame needs to put things right for the time before Mr G 
went abroad. The FSAVC payments he made at that time to his personal pension were as a 
direct result of the advice he was given by Sesame. And had Mr G not gone abroad, and 
continued his employment without a break, I doubt that Sesame would have failed to pay 
him compensation to cover the entire period of his OPS membership.
Sesame has argued that, because Mr Gs break in employment was in excess of one year, 
any added years contract he might have taken would have ceased. So, if he wanted to 
continue making added years contributions it says he would have needed to take a new 
contract. That contract wouldnt have been able to start until Mr Gs next birthday  so 
Sesame says there would have been a break of around 23 months in Mr Gs contributions. It 
says that it cannot reasonably conclude that, following a break of that length, Mr G would 
have restarted his contributions. And it says that Mr G had the opportunity to take further 
financial advice on his return to the UK that might have identified added years as a more 
suitable option.
I understand that Mr G was entitled to take a training fellowship that would last between 
12 and 15 months. The break he took in his employment was within those terms. It isnt 
entirely clear whether Mr G would have been allowed to remain within the original added 
years contract given the length of his absence  the normal maximum break is 12 months. 
It is possible that, on application, a longer break might have been agreed. But, on balance, 
I dont have enough to reasonably conclude that, following Mr Gs extended break, he would 
have exceptionally been allowed to continue his original added years contract.Mr G has told us that whilst he was abroad he took great care to ensure he continued to 
contribute to his personal pension. And that those contributions continued when he returned 
to his employment. Sesame has asked me to consider whether Mr G should have been 
entitled to continue making pension contributions whilst he was abroad. But I dont think that 
matter has any relevance to my deciding of this complaint, and certainly falls well outside my 
jurisdiction.
I think Mr Gs testimony, about his continued pension contributions, shows me the 
importance he placed on supplementing the normal pension hed receive from the OPS. It 
seems to me that, in 2002, he sough professional guidance from Sesame about how he 
could maximise his pension at retirement (some 25 years later), and based on that advice he 
continued to make FSAVC payments to his pension savings.
I am not persuaded that Mr G had any responsibility to take further advice on his pension 
savings when he returned to the UK in 2005. His circumstances and employment 
expectations were broadly the same as when Sesame provided him with advice in 2002. 
I cant see any reason why Mr G might have thought that the advice Sesame had given to 
him around two years earlier no longer applied. So, for the same reasons that Mr G 
continued to make FSAVC payments to his personal pension, I think it most likely he would 
have taken a new added years contract if that had been what Sesame had recommended to 
him in 2002.
So I think the poor advice that Sesame provided in 2002 meant that Mr G failed to take 
advantage of the added years option that was offered by the OPS both before, and after, his 
training fellowship abroad. So I think that the compensation Sesame pays to Mr G, for that 
poor advice, should reflect both periods of time.
  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sesame to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I explained above I think that 
means he would have used his additional voluntary contributions to purchase added years in 
the OPS both before and after his training fellowship abroad. I am not making any direction 
for Sesame to pay compensation in respect of any added years that might have accrued 
during the period Mr G was abroad on his training fellowship.
Sesame must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review 
methodology on an added years basis. This involves using, in part, the Pension Review 
methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr G's acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  I have presumed this to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
I do not know what the total compensation payable might be before these calculations are 
completed. Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount 
that might exceed £160,000, I can recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and Money Award: I require Sesame to pay Mr G compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr G 
within 90 days of the date Sesame receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Sesame to pay Mr G this compensation.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I also recommend that Sesame pays Mr G the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess 
of 90 days, that it takes Sesame to pay Mr G from the date it receives notification of his 
acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr G accepts my determination, the money award is binding on Sesame. My 
recommendation is not binding on Sesame. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing to him after 
the money award has been paid. Mr G may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Sesame Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman