DRN-4307340
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has declined his claim for the cost 
of veterinary treatment for his dog on the basis that it was for a condition that was existing 
prior to the policy being taken out.
What happened
Mr Ss dog, who Ill refer to as C, was covered by an insurance policy with HDI from 5 April 
2021 until 4 April 2022 (Policy1). Mr S didnt renew his existing policy from 5 April 2022 as 
he found it cheaper not to do so but to cancel it and take out a new policy instead (Policy 2).
Between 7 July and 15 September 2022, and between 29 September and 11 October 2022 
C received treatment from her vet for problems in her mouth. Mr S claimed for the cost of 
this from HDI. 
Having seen Cs medical history, HDI declined Mr Ss claim on the ground that on 15 
January 2022 (during the currency of Policy 1), C had received treatment for a dental 
problem. The vets notes on that occasions read as follows:
Reason: Tooth Causing Issues Last Couple Week
Appointment Notes: mouth bleeding, poss some ulcers/ blisters on tounge? and down 
that side of mouth. has had some teeth removed last year? Owner conerned and thinks 
tooth may need removing, adv come in to discuss and poss have some meds then 
bookin for sx?
O noticed bad breath and ulcers on rhs of tongue
Denatl disaease again although left looks worse. If doing another dental will remove all 
remaining teeth.
Cs next appointment was on 6 May 2022 when the vets note was brief as C wouldnt 
tolerate an oral examination, but it was noted that gums quite erythematous and halitosis 
and  as previously mentioned dental w extracting remaining teeth prob the best thing to do.
Cs next visit was on 16 July when another concern about bleeding from Cs mouth was 
raised. On 28 July a mass was found during dental treatment and excised. This was 
subsequently diagnosed as cancer. On 15 September an assessment was made of bleeding 
oral neoplasia, with a possible secondary infection.
HDI maintains that the first signs of gingival infection, oral bleeding and halitosis were 
noticed on 15 January 2022, before the inception of Policy 2 on 5 April 2022. It refers to the 
following policy term:
"What is not covered?
7. Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the 
insurance or a pre-existing condition."
It maintains that as Mr S didnt continue Policy 1, and Policy 2 is a new policy, there was no 
continuity of cover. The consequence of that is that the policy exclusions for pre-existing 
conditions will apply to the treatment claimed for.
Mr S maintains that the treatment C received in January 2022 was purely dental treatment. 
HDI made an enquiry of Cs vet as to whether the claim Mr S made on Policy 2 for Cs 
treatment from July 2022 might be linked to the dental issues noted in January 2022. No 
reply appears to have been provided by Cs vet.
HDI therefore maintained its position that the condition for which C was treated from July 
2022 was first displayed in January 2022 and was therefore excluded from cover as a pre-
existing condition.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HDIs rejection of his claim and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that in the absence of a response from Cs vet clarifying whether 
or not in their opinion there was a link between the condition that Cs vet identified in January 
2022 and the condition for which she was treated from July 2022, it wasnt reasonable for 
HDI to assume that there was. He considered that the medical evidence was insufficient to 
establish such a link. In his view HDI should settle Mr Ss claim.
In response to our investigators view, HDI referred to Mr Ss further claim for treatment 
between 29 September and 11 October 2022, and argued as follows: 
It was at this point it was recognised this condition started under Policy 1, making it pre-
existing to Policy 2. Therefore, a response from the vets was not needed.
Although the vet has never responded to us, it is clear from the information they and the 
policyholder provided, that this condition started under Policy 1.
As Policy 2 is a new contract, which doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, the claim has 
been correctly declined.
Our investigator didnt agree that it was clear, as HDI stated it to be, that Cs condition 
started under Policy 1, and maintained his view.
Mr Ss complaint has therefore now been passed to me for review and a final decision from 
this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should address the fact that Mr S didnt renew his policy in April 2022 and took out a 
new one.
I agree with HDI that as this was a new policy and not the continuation of an existing policy, 
any conditions existing before the new policy was taken out would be regarded as pre-
existing and consequently not covered. Mr S was referred to the following policy term (my 
emphasis underlined):
The limit of cover is continuous up to the overall limit of the policy for the period of 
insurance, subject to cover remaining in force, relevant premiums having been paid and 
the insurer invites renewal. Treatment in respect of any on-going illness or injury can 
continue into the next period of insurance.I dont consider that HDI has acted unfairly in maintaining that as there was no continuity of 
cover, pre-existing conditions as at the commencement date of the new policy would not be 
covered.
As HDI consequently relies upon the exclusion relating to pre-existing conditions  -  Any 
illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the insurance or a 
pre-existing condition"  - I have considered what is to be regarded as a pre-existing 
condition. 
A pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is 
otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of 
the policy for illness or 48 hours in the case of an injury.
The notes made by Cs vet from 15 January until 28 July make no reference to any 
identification or investigation of any neoplasia or suspicion of it, not has it been suggested 
that Mr S otherwise knew about it. The vets notes refer only to dental issues and the 
possible need to remove the remainder of Cs teeth, and some bleeding and halitosis. On 28 
July Cs appointment was for dental treatment under general anaesthetic. That led to the 
finding of a mass. It wasnt until 15 September 2022, some eight months later, that C is 
assessed as having neoplasia. 
It is for HDI to provide evidence which is sufficient on the balance of probabilities that an 
exclusion upon which it relies to decline a claim is applicable. In this case I dont consider 
that HDI has met that test. It hasnt provided any evidence to support its position that there 
was a connection between the condition for which C was treated in January 2022 and the 
cancer with which she was diagnosed some eight months later. It has simply made an 
assumption about this in the absence of any further clarification from Cs vet.
In my opinion HDI hasnt established on the balance of probabilities that Cs illness was 
present before 5 April 2022. 
In the circumstances I consider that HDI has acted unfairly towards Mr S in declining his 
claims. I think it should settle them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I require HDI Global Specialty SE:
1. to settle Mr Ss claims subject to any other terms and conditions of his policy.
2. to pay Mr S interest on any sum paid to him at the simple rate of 8% from the date of 
his claims until payment is made to him.
If HDI Global Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman