DRN-4015280
The complaint
Mr W and Ms G are unhappy with the decision Aviva Insurance Limited made on a claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Ms G have explained that on 18 February 2022 there was a storm, which 
damaged their property. Theyve explained the roof of the main house was damaged. In 
addition to this, the felt roof of a shed had detached. And there was damage to the listed 
outbuilding. 
Because there was damage to their property, and they needed to fix this, Mr W and Ms G 
made a claim under their home insurance policy. Aviva, their insurer, accepted that damage 
to the main house and shed were covered under Mr W and Ms Gs policy. It accepted there 
was a storm, and this caused the damage to these two areas. So, it provided Mr W and Ms 
G with a settlement for the repairs needed.
But Aviva declined to accept the claimed for damage to the outbuilding. Aviva said that whilst 
there was a storm at the time of the loss, the weather wasnt the sole cause of the damage 
here. It said the outbuilding had age related damage, and the storm had merely highlighted 
this.
Mr W and Ms G didnt think this was fair. They accepted the outbuilding did need repairs, 
prior to the storm event. But they said the storm did cause additional damage. For example, 
they said there were problems with the roof of the outbuilding caused by the storm  such as 
the chimney having moved. They also said the lime render had fallen off. 
Aviva maintained its position, declining the claim for the outbuilding. Mr W and Ms G 
remained dissatisfied. So, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
there was no dispute that there were storm conditions when the damage happened. But they 
said that based on the information provided, it was fair for Aviva to say the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage to the outbuilding. Rather the main cause was the condition of 
the building, and the need for maintenance of it. 
Mr W and Ms G didnt agree. They said they had maintained the roof of the outbuilding. And 
they reiterated concerns about having paid for insurance, with a higher premium due to the 
outbuildings listed status, for it then not to be covered.  
Because Mr W and Ms G didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Aviva acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to 
settle all of Mr W and Ms Gs claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr W and Ms G policy documentation, to see what cover this provides. 
And I can see it does provide cover for damage to Mr W and Ms Gs home, including 
outbuildings. But, as is usual with insurance policies of this nature, it doesnt provide cover 
for every scenario. Instead, the policy provides cover for damage, if its caused by one of the 
events listed in the policy. If the damage isnt caused by a listed event  it isnt covered, and 
the policy wont respond.
The events listed in the policy include damage caused by situations such as storm, theft or 
flood. Aviva has accepted that the reported damage to Mr W and Ms Gs main house and 
shed were due to storm damage. As this has been accepted and settled, I dont need to 
consider these elements of the claim any further. 
But Ive needed to decide whether Aviva acted reasonably in noting the damage to the 
outbuilding claimed for isnt covered by any of those events listed. And namely, that it isnt 
covered by the storm peril.
When looking at complaints about storm damage we consider the following three questions:
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of the above question is yes the claim would be covered. But if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no the claim wouldnt be successful. So, Ive 
considered these questions when coming to my decision.
There is no dispute that there were storm conditions at the time of the loss. As this is 
accepted, I havent needed to consider that any further.
So, Ive considered the last two questions above. And having done so, Im satisfied Aviva 
has acted fairly in coming to the conclusion that the main cause of the damage to the 
outbuilding wasnt a storm but was the condition of the outbuilding. As this means the 
answer to one of the above questions is no, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong by 
declining to cover repairs to the outbuilding.  
I say this because Ive seen the information provided by the contractor that visited Mr W and 
Ms Gs property, as well the photographs, both of which Aviva used to make its decision. 
And Im satisfied Avivas interpretation of this information, and that the damage to the 
outbuilding isnt covered by the storm peril, is fair and reasonable.
The overall narrative from the contractor that attended the property explained that the roof of 
the outbuilding was suffering from wear and tear, there were problems with the render, and 
the door was rotten. And Ive seen photographs which are consistent with this  for example 
of cracked render, rotten wood, and missing mortar on the roof and chimney. I dont have 
any reason to doubt what the contractor has said, and no firm evidence that provides a 
persuasive alternative viewpoint of the damage to the outbuilding. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say that the storm simply highlighted already present problems with 
the outbuilding, rather than it being the main cause of the loss here.
Given the above, I think Aviva acted reasonably in saying Mr W and Ms Gs claim for their 
outbuilding wasnt covered under the storm section of the policy. So, I dont require Aviva to 
do anything more here. 
Ive checked the remainder of the insured perils in Mr W and Ms Gs policy, to see if there 
are any other perils relevant to their loss. But Im satisfied there arent. As I dont think Aviva 
acted unfairly in concluding the damage isnt covered under the storm, or any other peril 
under the policy, I dont require it to do anything differently.
Mr W and Ms G have questioned why Aviva has provided insurance to them, knowing the 
property had a listed outbuilding, that it later then didnt cover. Despite Mr W and Ms G being 
honest about its condition when taking the policy out. Ive considered this point. An 
insurance policy provides cover for scenarios. And whilst this particular loss wasnt covered, 
that isnt to say the policy doesnt provide a benefit. It provides cover for various risks, in line 
with the terms and conditions. So, this point doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything differently more in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman