DRN-4518917
The complaint
Mr B complains that Target Servicing Limited delayed the redemption process for his Help to 
Buy loan and hes lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr B contacted Target in February 2022 to enquire about what he needed to do to allow him 
to make a partial, or full redemption on his Help to Buy loan which it administers. Target 
emailed Mr B on 26 February and explained what it needed Mr B to provide, so it could 
produce the redemption statement. Mr B needed to return a completed form it attached, 
provide a recent valuation for the property, produced by a RICS qualified surveyor and pay 
an administration fee.
Mr B arranged for a valuation on his property to be completed and this was done at the end 
of March 2022.  
Mr B said he made a number of attempts to speak with Target on the phone about the next 
steps and what was needed but had been unsuccessful in reaching anyone. And his solicitor 
experienced delays in trying to speak with Target too and understand what the next steps 
were for the redemption to be completed.
Target has no record of any communication from Mr B after he responded on 27 February 
2022 asking for a copy of the solicitor form which it had provided a link to in its email on 26 
February. Mr B next contacted Target on 16 August 2022 and Target responded on 19 
August explaining what steps needed to be taken for it to provide the redemption statement.  
The administration fee was paid on 24 August 2022 but Mr B experienced delays in Target 
responding to him after this point and he and his solicitor needed to chase at different points. 
A redemption statement was produced on 11 October and Mr B was able to complete the 
redemption before his mortgage offer from his new lender expired. 
Mr B complained about the delays he experienced with Target and the impact this had on 
him. He said hes previous mortgage moved to a tracker rate in July 2022 and he was paying 
£600 a month more for his mortgage as a result of this. He feels the delays in Target and it 
responding to him meant he wasnt able to complete his mortgage transfer before the 
existing rate moved to the tracker. So he has paid more than he would have until the new 
mortgage completed on 10 November 2022.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt Target needed to do something to put 
things right. She felt Mr B would have been able to complete his mortgage redemption by the 
end of June 2022 if Target had responded to his chasers and request for information. So he 
would have been able to avoid moving on to the tracker rate and paying the higher rate of 
interest while on this. She also thought the delay in Target responding to Mr B meant he 
needed to pay for a second valuation after the first one expired before Target had responded 
to Mr B. So she felt it was fair that Target cover the cost of the increased interest rate Mr B 
needed to pay between July and November 2022 and refund Mr B what he paid for the 
second valuation fee. She also recommended that Target pay Mr B £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced with the worry he had over whether the mortgage would have 
completed before his existing offer expired adding a great deal of stress.
Mr B accepted the investigators outcome but Target did not. Target provided evidence of its 
contact notes to show Mr B had not been in touch with it after his initial enquiry until August 
2022. When Mr B did get back in contact with it, the application was progressed correctly. It 
didnt think it had added an unreasonable delay to the completion process and Mr B was 
able to complete his mortgage before his new offer expired. 
Our investigator let Mr B know why Target disagreed with the assessment. He explained he 
was unable to evidence any earlier chasing of Target as hed changed solicitors during the 
re-mortgage process after not hearing back from the previous one. 
Because Target disagreed with the outcome, the complaint was referred for decision. 
I issued a provisional on this complaint on 13 November 2023 and asked Mr B and Target to 
provide any comments on what I planned to say in my final decision by 11 December 2023. 
My provisional decision is copied below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not planning on upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why Im not persuaded it is fair and reasonable to ask Target to 
compensate Mr B as recommended by our investigator.
Target did not provide the borrowing for Mr Bs loan, but it is the administrator of the loan. It 
is responsible for how the loan is dealt with, administering the arrangement and collection of 
payments, including the redemption payments.
A large focus of our investigators assessment was on Target failing to respond to chasers 
made by Mr B and his solicitor, prior to August 2022 and the impact this had on the 
mortgage process. While I dont dispute that Mr B believes his solicitor was chasing Target 
for an update, there is no evidence of any contact from it or Mr B directly between 26 
February and 16 August 2022. Mr B has said he changed solicitors because of concerns 
with the original solicitor  he hasnt expanded on what these concerns were  but this, 
together with the lack of contact notes or calls means I am not persuaded Target was 
chased by Mr B prior to August 2022.
I also need to consider whether Target had been provided with everything it needed to 
progress with the redemption statement before August. Although Mr B had the valuation on 
his property completed in March, there is no evidence of this being forwarded on to Target 
and it needed this, together with the solicitor form and administration fee paying before it 
would be able to provide a redemption statement. As the administration fee was not paid 
until August 2022, I think it is unreasonable to say Target could have produced the 
redemption statement sooner.
When Mr B did speak with Target in August, there was some delay between the initial re-
enquiry and Target producing the redemption statement. On 11 October 2022 Mr B had a 
phone call with Target and the delay in communication across September was 
acknowledged and they let him know theyd be doing their best to prioritise his application 
and have it worked quicker than the normal SLAs. 
The normal timeframe for the redemption statement to be produced and then the mortgage 
completion to take place is around 8 weeks based on the timeframes explained by Target with the different processes involved.  So had there been no delays, after the administration 
fee was paid on 24 August 2022, by around 24 October, Mr B should have completed on his 
mortgage.  Although even after being prioritised, the redemption and new mortgage 
drawdown didnt complete by this point, but I dont think Target need to do anything else.
Mr B, when checking with his new lender on whether a Deed of Postponement was required, 
identified he was able to borrow enough to fully redeem the Help to Buy loan so an 
amendment to the paperwork was required. This will have added some delay to the process  
and so I dont think strictly applying the standard time frame from when the fee was paid 
would be a fair expectation.
As Ive not seen anything to show that Mr B attempted to provide Target with the information 
it needed to complete the redemption statement and start this process before his first 
property valuation expired, I dont think it would be fair to ask Target to reimburse the cost of 
this.
Overall, I think the customer service could have been better and there was some delay 
between August and September but the mortgage completed within the expected timeframe 
for a transaction of this type and there is no detriment as a result. Mr B was provided with 
the information he needed in February to send to Target and it maybe he had a solicitor 
acting on his behalf, where he believed this was being progressed and happening. But 
unfortunately there doesnt appear to have been any contact until Mr B himself got in touch 
with Target again in August. In the absence of this, I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
While I dont dispute this experience would have been distressing, Ive not seen anything to 
show me that Target was the cause of this. It did its best to reassure Mr B when it spoke with 
him in October 2022 that it would priorities the application and make sure the deadline of his 
new mortgage and its expiry was met. This did complete in time and I dont think it would be 
right to make an award for distress and inconvenience when I dont think Target was the 
cause of this.    
Neither Mr B nor Target provided a response to my provisional decision and the complaint 
has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
decision Ive set out in the findings above. I am not persuaded that Target was the cause of 
the substantial delays in Mr Bs redemption process. And it follows that I dont think it needs 
to do anything else now, for the reasons explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman