DRN-2745130
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr T says 
was mis-sold to him by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in or around July 1997, 
when he was taking out a mortgage.
What happened
It was a condition of obtaining the mortgage Mr T was applying for that he had PPI cover  
 although this did not have to be taken out with RBS.  
The PPI covered Mr T in the event of being unable to work or losing his job, costing 
around £30 per month and would have paid out an initial monthly benefit of around £490 
in the event of a successful claim. 
Mr T says he was made to feel he had to take out PPI with RBS to go with his mortgage. 
He also says he didnt need it. 
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ive seen that Mr T made has raised a number of points when responding to our 
adjudicators assessment and Ive kept these in mind when preparing this decision.
Also, RBS offered to pay back to Mr T the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr Ts PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr T about the high level 
of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T says he bought the PPI by way of an application made by post. He also says RBS 
recommended he take out the cover. However, given that it looks like Mr T chose to buy 
PPI by completing his application in his own time, I think its unlikely he was responding 
to a recommendation made by RBS. That means its likely this was a non-advised sale 
where, whilst RBS didnt have to check if it was suitable, it did have to make sure Mr T 
got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. I think it probably was.
Mr T says he was made to think he had to buy the PPI to go with his mortgage. The 
mortgage offer conditions said that Mr T had to take out PPI if he wanted the mortgage. 
Generally, we see this sort of requirement where customers are taking out a mortgage 
thats close to or equivalent to the total value of the property theyre buying. That looks 
to have been the situation here. The policy also came with an offer of £150 cashback if 
Mr T chose to take out accident and sickness cover  in addition to the year of 
unemployment cover that RBS required - and continued paying for it for four years.  
PPI is not necessarily mis-sold if a financial business considers it is sensible to make 
taking it out PPI a condition of agreeing the mortgage. This is different to the situation 
where taking out PPI is optional but the business fails to make it clear that the 
consumer has a choice. 
I also see from the mortgage offer that Mr T had to return the completed application 
form if he wanted the PPI to cover him for accident and sickness as well as 
unemployment. 
Taking all of this into account, I think RBS would have made it clear enough to Mr T that 
having PPI cover in place was a compulsory requirement with this type of mortgage. It 
was open to Mr T to choose a different mortgage provider if he didnt want to take out 
PPI. But he decided to go ahead and take out the PPI offered by RBS.
I also think Mr T would have been given some information explaining how the policy 
worked, having agreed to take it out. Ive noted that the mortgage application form 
included a box he could tick to request further details about the cover  which he did. 
However, its possible that not all the information was as clear as it shouldve been. But I 
dont think its likely that better information would have affected his decision to go ahead 
with the policy. Ill explain why. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr T was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So, it would have been
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. I therefore 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about what Mr W has told us about being entitled to some benefits from 
his employer at the time, being equivalent to at least 6 months pay and possibly as much 
as 12 months. He also told us he had some savings available if necessary. But the policy 
he bought would have paid out for up to a year - and in addition to any other means he 
already had available. So it would have provided him with some extra financial security 
which protected him from losing his home if he was unable to work. So I still think Mr T 
would have found this policy useful. 
It follows that I think the PPI policy was of use to Mr T and I think this is the likely reason why 
he chose to take it out. I therefore dont think the policy was mis-sold.
But RBS does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already been paid. 
Id also like to reassure Mr T that Ive taken into account the entirety of the file for his 
complaint. This also includes the correspondence hes sent in following our adjudicators 
view. Im sorry to have to disappoint him on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I dont direct 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more to put matters right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman