DRN-2952580
The complaint
Mr C complains that the loans he had from Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) 
were unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr C had five loans from Lending Stream between September 2010 and November 2011 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 9 Sep 2010 £215 151d £107.50 15 Mar 2011 On time
2 23 Mar 2011 £600 6m £300 23 Sep 2011 On time
3 13 Jun 2011 £135 5m £302.25 24 Oct 2011 On time
4 17 Aug 2011 £135 5m £250.50 24 Jan 2012 7 Feb 2012
5 28 Nov 2011 £605 6m £346.38 23 May 2012 Outstanding
* Including overlapping loans
Mr C says he could not afford the repayments on the loans and that his financial history
would have shown he was not creditworthy.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr C about his employment and income, as well as his regular
outgoings. It says it sanity-checked these figures with statistics from independent sources
and revised them upwards if required. Lending Stream says it also carried out a credit check
to understand Mr Cs existing credit commitments and found the first four loans were
affordable to him. Lending Stream says that, although it also found loan 5 to be affordable it
accepted that Mr Cs lending pattern indicated it may not have been a good idea to approve
that loan. It offered to refund the interest and fees on loan 5 (plus 8% statutory interest) and
to reduce the outstanding balance by that amount. It also offered to remove any adverse
information about loan 5 from Mr Cs credit file.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint about loans 1 to 4. He found loan 5 should
not have been approved and that the complaint should be settled in line with Lending
Streams offer.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that Lending Stream did not carry out appropriate
affordability checks and that it offered no assistance when he told it he was in financial
difficulties.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr C and to Lending Stream on 29 June 2021. The 
relevant rules and guidelines were outlined in the provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
them here.
I summarise my findings:
Although the credit check showed some adverse information at the time of loan 1, 
Mr Cs scheduled repayments were a relatively small proportion of his declared 
income, so I didnt conclude Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by approving the 
loan;
I found Lending Stream should have carried out a full review before approving further 
lending after the initial loan because:
oLoan 2 and its repayments were around three times higher than loan 1 which 
meant Mr C had to commit 50% of his declared disposable income to 
repaying it;
oThe credit check showed a new defaulted account and two more delinquent 
accounts since loan 1;
I didnt have any further evidence of Mr Cs financial circumstances in 2011, but I 
found it more likely than not that Mr Cs disposable income was less than the £600 
per month hed declared because:
oIt was unlikely Mr C would have required a £600 high-cost loan when he had 
the same amount of disposable income each month;
oHis credit file showed five defaults, the most recent being just four months 
earlier;
oIf Mr C had £600 of disposable income, then I found it unlikely that two further 
accounts would have become delinquent, of which one was just a month 
before loan 2;
So, based on the information it had already, I considered Lending Stream was unfair 
to agree further credit - it knew Mr C was having problems managing his money and 
should have realised it was more likely than not he wasnt able to repay further credit 
sustainably;
I found that Lending Stream did not carry out proportionate checks for loan 2 and, 
had it done so, I considered it unlikely the checks would have provided any 
reassurance of affordability given the information it already had;
As Mr Cs combined repayment amounts remained high throughout loans 3, 4 and 5, 
I found it was likely that proportionate checks would have found it was irresponsible 
to have approved any of these loans as there was no evidence Mr Cs circumstances 
had improved.
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Cs complaint about loans 2 to 5.
Mr C did not respond to the provisional decision.
Lending Stream responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and provided a 
calculation of the redress due. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) should:
A. Add up the repayments made by Mr C towards interest and fees on loans 2 to 4;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Remove all interest and fees from the balance on loan 5, and treat repayments 
made by Mr C as repayments of the principal on the loan;
D. If reworking Mr Cs loan 5 account as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having 
made payments above the capital borrowed, then Lending Stream should refund the 
overpayments, with 8% simple interest, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date of settlement* plus the refund calculated (A+B) for loans 2 to  4;
E. If reworking Mr Cs loan 5 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Lending Stream can use the total refund for loans 2 to 4 (after the deduction of tax) 
to offset this. Any surplus then needs to be refunded to Mr C. But if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Lending Stream that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C;
F. Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation to loans 2 to 5  up to the date the complaint is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending
Stream should give Mr C a certificate showing the tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman