DRN-4519765
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) was responsible for maladministration of his 
overdraft.
What happened
On 6 April 2023 Mr R made a formal complaint to BoS about his overdraft and the fees he 
was incurring. BoS said it should have reviewed his overdraft sooner and, that it should have 
provided more support to Mr R in relation to his overdraft from June 2017. BoS said that 
Mr R had his maximum overdraft of £4,020 in place in 2011 so no review took place in 
relation to that application. There were no further increases to his overdraft limit since this 
date. Mr R's first annual overdraft renewal date within the six years before April 2023 was on 
29 June 2017. It reviewed his overdraft and charges from that date and essentially refunded 
both the overdraft balance and charges and added 8% interest. It also removed his agreed 
overdraft facility from July 2023.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator advised Mr R that we 
couldnt consider any issues with the overdraft prior to the review of 29 June 2017, because 
that complaint was out of time.
With regard to the settlement after that date, she said that BoSs position was reasonable.
I issued a decision advising that we could not consider his complaint prior to April 2017 as 
that complaint was out of time.
The matter has been passed back to me to consider the merits of Mr Rs complaint after 
6 April 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns Mr R's complaint only from 6 April 2017. His complaint concerns the 
way his overdraft was administered. Essentially the overdraft limit was reviewed annually so 
that in order to consider whether there was any irresponsible lending, we have to look at the 
last annual review date within that six-year period from 6 April 2017. That was 29 June 2017, 
and I think that it was reasonable for BoS to look at the overdraft and the fees incurred from 
that date.
As set out above, BoS has settled the matter by refunding the entire overdraft balance, all 
the fess incurred since 29 June 2017, and added 8% interest for the time that Mr R didnt 
have the money. This is the maximum award I would have considered making in such a 
case. So I think that BoSs payment to settle the matter was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
As Bank of Scotland plc has already made a fair and reasonable payment to settle the 
matter I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman