DRN-4085173
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank
(BSCU) was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
BSCU agreed a loan of £12,000 for Mrs S in April 2021. The total amount owed was £16,972 
to be repaid at £276 a month over five years plus a final payment to clear all obligations (all 
figures rounded).  
I understand that Mrs S met her payments on time until autumn 2021. She complained to
BSCU that it should not have lent to her as she couldnt afford to meet the repayments. 
BSCU didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said she had passed all the relevant checks in its
application process and that the loan had been fairly agreed.
Mrs S referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt
recommended that it be upheld. They found that BSCU should have looked into Mrs Ss
circumstances further before lending to her but, had it done so, wouldnt have concluded that
the loan would be unaffordable.
Mrs S didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and resolve and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 
21 March 2023 explaining why I thought Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S agreed 
with my decision but BSCU didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about lending - including all of the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. BSCU needed to treat Mrs S 
fairly and with due regard to her interests when making its lending decision. Ive carefully 
reconsidered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what it means for Mrs Ss complaint. 
Ive also considered what BSCU said in response to my provisional decision. Having done 
so, I remain of the view that Mrs Ss complaint should succeed though I appreciate that will 
be very disappointing news for BSCU. Ill set out again my reasons why in this final decision, 
and will refer to BSCUs response where appropriate. 
When Mrs S applied for the loan, BSCU carried out an affordability assessment. BSCU says
that it verified Mrs Ss income using an income verification tool and estimated her expenses
based on data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). It also checked Mrs Ss credit file 
and considered her existing credit commitments, including her mortgage payments. BSCU 
told us that Mrs S passed all the relevant checks in its processes and so it didnt require any
financial documents from her such as bank statements.
BSCU provided a high level summary of the information it says it considered when making
its lending decision and the credit file data it obtained. This included that Mrs Ss salary was
£37,000. BSCU recorded that Mrs Ss monthly mortgage payment was £526 and that she
spent £676 on other expenses, about £1,200 in total. It said that Mrs S had a low existing
debt to income ratio and estimated that the monthly loan repayment of £276 amounted to
24% of Mrs Ss disposable monthly income, taking into account a buffer amount. BSCU
concluded that the loan would be affordable for Mrs S.
These checks might be appropriate in some circumstances. However, in this case Mrs S
was taking on a debt of almost £17,000 and would need to meet her repayments for five
years. I think BSCU ought to have reached a fairly comprehensive level of understanding
about Mrs Ss actual means in order to make a fair lending decision. I appreciate that it
sense-checked what Mrs S said about her income by looking at her account turnover and
estimated her expenses with reference to national datasets, but I cant see that it verified this
information.
In response to my provisional decision, BSCU said that it assessed Mrs Ss credit file before 
agreeing to lend to her and so verified her mortgage payments and her current credit 
commitments. It said that the only element of estimation was with the ONS data and it was 
standard practice in the industry not to request bank statements for every customer. BSCU 
also said that, as per its processes, it can provide loans of greater value than that given to 
Mrs S without undertaking manual checks in every instance. 
BSCU said that the bank account Id referred to was a joint account. It couldnt consider 
Mrs Ss partners personal information when assessing the affordability of the loan for her 
and that her partners financial circumstances were irrelevant to its affordability checks. 
BSCU also said that, as per its processes, it assumed Mrs S and her partner paid an equal 
share of the mortgage.
I understand from BSCUs response that its checks vary  it doesnt carry out what it calls 
manual checks on all occasions. As Id said in my provisional decision, the checks that 
BSCU carried out might be appropriate in some circumstances but I didnt think they were 
enough here, given the size of the loan and the length of term. I dont think BSCU treated 
Mrs S fairly by estimating her expenses and assuming how these might be shared with her 
partner. Mrs S was independently responsible for her full mortgage payment, for example. 
Altogether, I remain of the view that BSCU should have gone further in its checks before 
making its lending decision on this occasion. 
Ive considered what would have happened if everything had gone as it should have when 
Mrs S applied for a loan. Our investigator found that further checks wouldnt have shown the 
loan to be unaffordable for Mrs S and so BSCU would have still agreed the loan. However, 
Ive come to a different conclusion.   
Mrs S provided bank statements for the account her income is paid into. To confirm, this 
account is solely in Mrs Ss name. Ive reviewed these to understand what BSCU might have 
found out had it investigated Mrs Ss circumstances further before lending to her. 
BSCU said in response to my provisional decision that its processes at the time didnt 
require it to check Mrs Ss bank statements. It said it doesnt think its fair that it should be 
expected to revise its original lending decision based on information it didnt have at the time 
of the application. To be clear, Im not suggesting that this is the information BSCU ought to 
have considered, but this is the information I have and I think its reasonable to rely on this to 
come to a view as to what would likely have happened but for BSCUs actions.The monthly totals in and out of the account for January to March 2021 show that Mrs S
wouldnt have had enough money left to meet her loan repayments. Unusually, the
transactions for March show over £18,000 coming in and going out of Mrs Ss account,
including a £10,000 loan deposit (incurring monthly repayments of over £200). This loan was 
taken out in Mrs Ss name.
Looking in more detail at the transactions - the bank statements confirm that Mrs Ss income
varied but was usually over £2,000 and she was in receipt of child benefit of £140 a month.
Mrs Ss usual outgoings, including bills and childcare, came to about £750 a month with food
and travel costs around £300. Her mortgage payments from the account were £1,050. I think 
BSCU would have seen from this information that it wasnt likely Mrs S would be able to 
meet her repayments for this loan every month and would have declined to lend to her.
I have considered that some of Mrs Ss expenses might have been shared with her partner 
but I dont know anything about their financial circumstances and I understand that BSCU 
didnt consider these so cant provide any further information. I can see ad-hoc deposits into 
the account from what Ive assumed to be Mrs Ss partner but I can also see debt 
repayments from the account, for example over £700 to a credit card company in January. I 
cant conclude from what Ive seen that Mrs S had recourse to a regular net contribution from 
her partner.
The bank statements also show that two loans totalling £40,000 were deposited into the 
account in April before BSCUs loan was taken out. Another loan of £25,000 was deposited 
on the same day. These loans were in Mrs Ss name.  It seems all these borrowed funds, 
including BSCUs loan, were used to buy cryptocurrency. 
Taking everything into consideration, Ive concluded that BSCU treated Mrs S unfairly and 
without regard to her interests by lending to her on this occasion. I think a fair and 
reasonable check of Mrs Ss circumstances would have shown that it wasnt likely that she 
would be able to meet her repayments over the loan term and led to a decline. Any further 
investigation would have confirmed this.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mrs S repays the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of this. But I
dont think Mrs S should pay any interest or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have
been unfairly agreed. In summary BSCU should:
Cap the amount Mrs S needs to repay at £12,000; and
Consider all payments, including any fees, that Mrs S has made as payments 
towards this capital amount; and
If Mrs S has paid more than the capital then BSCU needs to refund these 
overpayments to her along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case BSCU needs to 
remove any negative information about this loan from Mrs Ss credit file up to the 
point of settlement of the complaint; or
If in the event that Mrs S has not yet repaid the capital, then BSCU needs to treat 
Mrs S fairly and with forbearance and due consideration regarding her outstanding 
capital balance. This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with her. Once the loan capital has been repaid, then BSCU should remove any negative 
information about this loan from Mrs Ss credit file.
If BSCU has since sold the debt, it needs to either buy it back or liaise with the current debt
owner to ensure Mrs S isnt liable for more than the capital she borrowed.
*HMRC requires BSCU to take off tax from this interest. BSCU must give Mrs S a certificate
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Brent Shrine 
Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank and it needs to carry out the steps Ive 
outlined to put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman