DRN-2687098
The complaint
Company H (H) complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, had 
unfairly restricted access to its business bank account for around four months in 2019. 
H also complains a payment to its Cashplus account from a client wasnt returned to source 
as it was told. H wants Cashplus to pay it compensation for the loss of income its incurred. 
What happened
In September 2019, H was unable to access or send money from its business account. 
Because it didnt have another business account, H says its lost several clients and daily 
income which it otherwise would have earnt. 
One of Hs clients paid money into the account during this time. Cashplus say it returned this 
to them. But H says this hasnt happened. 
H says it spent several hours, over several calls, trying to sort this out with Cashplus.  
Unhappy with what was going on, H complained to Cashplus. As it hadnt received a final 
response at that time, H referred its complaint to this service.  
Before the matter was looked at by one of our investigators, Cashplus sent its final response 
on the matter. In summary, Cashplus said: 
Hs account was affected by technical difficulties which prevented it from accessing 
the funds held in the business account
It has resolved the technical difficulties 
If H has suffered financial loss as a result of this, it should send evidence to Cashplus 
for this to be reviewed 
In mid-December 2019, Cashplus lifted the restrictions on the account.  
One of our investigators then looked into the matter. They partly upheld Hs complaint - in 
summary they found: 
H was given incorrect information by Cashplus that its account was affected by 
technical issues which prevented access to its business account. The account was 
in fact being reviewed by Cashplus 
Cashplus was fulfilling its regulatory and legal obligations in reviewing the account. 
And the account terms also permitted Cashplus to carry out this review
Cashplus was under no obligation to provide an explanation for restricting the 
account 
 Had H been told the proper reason for the restriction, it still would not have made 
much difference. Thats because Cashplus would not have been able to give H a 
time frame nor would it have been obliged to give any reasons for its actions  
Cashplus wrongly asked H to provide evidence of any financial loss incurred And, it 
was wrong to say Hs complaint was upheld. So because of this, Cashplus should 
pay £50 compensation to H
Evidence showed Cashplus had returned a payment to one of Hs clients during the 
period of the restriction - as disputed by H   
Cashplus were unhappy with this outcome. In short, it said: 
Saying the restriction on the account was because of a technical issue was an error  
It took four call attempts to H before it was able to speak to someone in 
December 2018 - which in turn led to the account restrictions being lifted 
Its Cashplus standard process to uphold a complaint, unless a review of the 
complaint proves otherwise. And Cashplus would have considered any financial loss 
incurred by H if it had provided enough evidence of this. So, giving H a small gesture 
of goodwill payment would be inappropriate 
It follows this matter has now ben passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold this complaint  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate the problems Cashplus review has caused H  even though this wasnt properly 
explained to it - and I think this is understandable. But businesses like Cashplus have very 
important legal and regulatory obligations to observe. And sometimes they might need to 
take an action on an account to ensure they are complying with these responsibilities. They 
are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. 
That sometimes means financial businesses need to restrict customers accounts. Im 
satisfied based on all the information I have seen, and the basis for Cashplus review and 
subsequent decision, that its actions were reasonable. And, having also reviewed the terms 
and conditions of the account, Im satisfied Cashplus has acted in accordance with them.
So, even though Cashplus inaccurately said Hs account was affected by technical issues, it 
didnt do anything wrong by carrying out a review that it was obligated to.  
I note from the information Ive been given, that once Cashplus was able to speak to H and 
complete its review the restrictions were lifted. So I dont think the time the account was 
restricted would have been any less had Cashplus explained it was carrying out a review 
from the offset. What was key here was the relevant people at Cashplus speaking to H. 
H says a payment from one of its clients into the business account hasnt been returned as 
Cashplus said it had. Cashplus has given me information which Im satisfied shows the 
payment has been returned to source.  Finally, our investigator had recommended an award of £50 compensation. But Cashplus 
doesnt think a goodwill gesture of £50 is appropriate. And thats because it was open to 
considering any financial loss H may have suffered if enough evidence of it was provided. 
Having carefully considered this matter, Ive decided £50 is fair compensation for the 
miscommunication, and likely annoyance Cashplus incorrect final response, upholding Hs 
complaint, caused. 
To be clear this isnt a goodwill gesture  but an award to put things rights given Cashplus 
failings, and the impact this has had. Given Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably by 
conducting a review it was obligated to do, I dont need to consider any financial loss H says 
it suffered.   
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus, to pay H £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Ombudsman