DRN-4375834
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Ms C says:
Ms C opened a Global Money Account (GMA) with HSBC in December 2022. On 17 
December 2022, she made an international payment of CHF2,400 for the rental of an 
apartment in Switzerland. The agent then said the apartment wasnt available, by which time 
Ms C had paid the money. The payment was:
Date Payment type Amount
17 December 2022 International payment CHF2,400 
(£2,156)
The Swiss rental company offered Ms C an alternative apartment, but it wasnt available on 
the dates she wanted it for, or in the same location. Ms C asked for a refund, but nothing 
was paid back. The beneficiary wouldnt respond to her messages. She said she had been 
scammed and reported the issue to HSBC on 25 January 2023. She said HSBC had a duty 
to protect her and should refund the money.
What HSBC said:
HSBC said they tried to contact the beneficiary bank, but it failed to respond. HSBC said 
there wasnt any more they could do. They apologised for some poor service Ms C got on 
the phone (she was transferred to different departments several times) and for that, paid 
compensation of £30.
Our investigation so far:
Ms C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the payment was too low in value to 
expect HSBC to have intervened and stopped it. HSBC had tried to recover the money, but 
without any success.
Ms C didnt agree. She said HSBC shouldve protected her, even though it was an 
international payment; she hadnt heard from HSBC about the recovery attempts; and the 
payment was out of character with the way in which she used her account. She asked that 
an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
In all honesty  its not clear whether this was a scam, or simply a civil dispute whereby the 
rental firm didnt provide the apartment that Ms C wanted. In this case, Im persuaded that on 
balance, it was a scam  as the firm didnt respond to refund requests and wouldnt reply to 
her WhatsApp messages. So  I will look at Ms Cs complaint as a scam.
Its not in question that Ms C authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So 
although she didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms C when 
she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
In this case, I dont consider HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. I say that  as it was for a low value, and we wouldnt have expected HSBC to 
have questioned it for that reason. I thought about whether HSBC shouldve intervened 
because Ms Cs GMA account had only been opened for a few days before the payment  
but Im not persuaded that meant HSBC should have stopped it here.
And - theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think 
HSBC acted reasonably in processing the payment.Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. I can see that HSBC messaged 
the recipient bank on 26 January 2023  the day after Ms C contacted them  so that is what 
we would expect HSBC to have done. They didnt get a response  and on 23 February 
2023, HSBC recorded that they called Ms C and advised her that there had been no 
response from the recipient bank and that no more could be done. 
Unfortunately, its the case that where an overseas bank is involved, the chances of recovery 
are lower than for a UK bank - that is generally the case in scams such as this.
Im sorry that Ms C has lost money  but in summary, we wouldnt expect HSBC to have 
intervened in a payment for such a value.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman