DRN-2080471
The complaint
Mr D says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to him because it didnt do 
enough checks before lending. Mr D says Drafty wouldve declined his application had it 
completed more checks because of his poor credit rating. 
  
What happened
Mr D approached Drafty for a running credit facility in June 2017. Mr D was given a facility 
with a £500 credit limit. It seems Mr D has had some problems repaying the drawdowns on 
the facility after it was suspended, and an outstanding balance remains. Mr D has been 
contacted by a third party for repayment of the balance.
This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility. 
 
However, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stopped Mr D from drawing down on the 
facility by March 2018 because he wasnt using the facility in the way that Drafty had 
expected him to. So, the adjudicator didnt think that Drafty shouldve allowed any more 
drawdowns from 4 March 2018. 
Drafty has agreed with the adjudicator. So, in line with her recommendations, it has agreed 
to refund the interest and charges Mr D paid from 4 March 2018 together with 8% simple 
interest (and then offset this amount against his outstanding capital balance). It also agreed 
to remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.
 
But it has said that if Mr D now enters into a repayment plan to repay the outstanding capital, 
this will be reported to credit reference agencies. Drafty later confirmed that once Mr D 
repays the balance the adverse information relating to this will be removed. 
 
Mr D wasnt happy with this offer when it was made. In response, he has said:
 
Drafty shouldnt have offered the facility from outset; 
it would be unfair for Drafty to now report a repayment plan to the credit reference 
agencies; and
if Drafty had acted as the adjudicator suggests, at that time he wouldve been able to 
resume payments to the facility (from 4 March 2018) without any adverse impact on 
his credit record.   
The adjudicator reviewed the offer and Mr Ds comments and she thought what Drafty was 
proposing to do was fair in the circumstances. As no agreement has been reached, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Should Drafty have declined Mr Ds application for credit from the outset?
To begin, I want to be clear that Mr D wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all 
of what he borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility 
where there was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due 
within a period of at least 12 months.
 
As Ive said, Mr D was granted a running credit facility with a £500 limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
and repaid that amount over 12 months, he wouldve paid a total of £657.48, meaning the 
monthly repayment wouldve been around £55. 
Drafty has provided us with the results of its credit checks. It knew that Mr D had three active 
accounts with relatively low balances. But the results didnt reveal anything adverse or 
significant which I think ought to have led Drafty to either carry out further checks, or to have 
declined Mr Ds request for credit.
 
Mr D has said that Drafty shouldve seen that he had a poor credit rating and had an 
outstanding CCJ. The information a consumer might see though, when they request a copy 
of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a 
small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data 
might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information Drafty 
saw and what Mr D says shouldve been seen. 
Before granting the facility, Drafty asked Mr D about his monthly income, which he confirmed 
was £3,000 per month and he also declared expenditure of £1,600 per month. This left Mr D 
with a disposable income of £1,400 per month. Based on the information that Drafty 
gathered it seemed that Mr D would be able to afford the repayments of around £55 per 
month which he was committing to making. 
I also think, given this was the start of the lending relationship, it was not unreasonable for 
Drafty to have relied on the information it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended to Drafty asking Mr D to evidence his declared income and 
expenditure. Therefore, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially approved the facility. 
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty hasnt done anything wrong. Ive also looked at how 
Mr D used the facility to see if there was a point at which Drafty should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Thats because although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have provided the facility, that 
wasnt the end of its obligations to Mr D.  When the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this 
type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when granting these types 
of loans. Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Mr D used the facility in order to 
step in if and when he showed signs of possible financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve seen this by the time Mr D took a drawdown on 4 
March 2018. By this point, our adjudicator thought that Drafty would have seen that      Mr 
Ds borrowing history showed he was potentially reliant on the facility. Drafty has already 
accepted that at this point it shouldnt have allowed Mr D to continue to drawdown on the 
facility and, for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with this based on the evidence Ive seen. So 
the question that remains for me to decide here is what Drafty needs to do to put things right. 
How should Mr Ds credit file be fairly and accurately updated?
Drafty says it will remove any adverse information currently being reported. If a repayment 
plan is needed, then this will be reported to the credit reference agencies. And then, once 
the debt has been repaid Drafty will then remove any new adverse credit file information.
I appreciate that Mr D wants to make repayments towards the facility and not have any 
adverse information recorded about that. But the facility did default as a result of Mr D not 
making repayments to it. And an outstanding balance remains.
When reporting information to the credit refence agencies, Drafty has a responsibly to report 
accurate and up to date information. So, I dont think that recording Mr D has already repaid 
this money, or that hes up to date with payments, would be accurate or reflect how Drafty 
needs to put things right.  
Im mindful that any recent repayment plan could have an impact on Mr Ds credit file in the 
short term as its more recent adverse credit file data. But if a repayment plan is needed to 
ensure the outstanding balance is repaid it seems fair to me that this be reported to the 
credit reference agencies as an accurate and up to date representation of the current 
position, particularly given Draftys offer to then remove adverse information relating to the 
debt once it has finally been repaid.
So, thinking about what Ive said above and the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
think what Drafty has proposed to do in relation to the credit file is a fair and reasonable 
remedy in the circumstances of the case.  
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed by my decision as I know he wants the record of 
this facility removed. But, having weighted up all the evidence I do think what Drafty has 
proposed to put things right, in this case, is fair. So, I wont be asking Drafty to do any more 
than what it has already agreed to do. 
What Drafty needs to do to put things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Drafty should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results: 
 
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that were 
applied from 4 March 2018;
Drafty should then rework the account from 4 March 2018 so Mr D only has to repay 
the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mr D (to Drafty 
and the third party) as if it went towards the principal balance;
If and when Mr D had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment 
should be refunded to Mr D. To this overpayment 8% simple a year interest should 
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;Drafty should try and make an arrangement with Mr D to repay the outstanding 
balance thatll remain. But Id remind Drafty of its obligation to exercise forbearance 
should Mr D be experiencing financial difficulty and 
Update Mr Ds credit file in line with what Drafty has already proposed 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman