DRN-4252598
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been sharing information about her 
mortgage, via email, text message and calls, with her ex-partner. Miss R said that was a 
breach of data protection rules. 
What happened
Miss R said shed formerly had a Barclays mortgage with her ex-partner, which was settled 
when they separated and the property was sold. Miss R has explained that this wasnt an 
amicable separation, and relations with her ex-partner remain difficult. 
Miss R said some years later, in 2018, she took out a mortgage in her own name, using a 
different broker. In October 2022, she became aware that her ex-partner had been receiving 
emails, text messages and phone calls from Barclays regarding her mortgage. Miss R said 
her ex-partner had never been associated with the property the mortgage is held on. 
Miss R said she only found out this was happening when her ex-partner told her, in October 
2022, that her fixed interest rate was coming to an end in January 2023. Miss R said if shed 
received the emails which were sent to her ex-partner, she could have secured a new 
mortgage deal earlier, while rates were lower. And that would have saved her money. So 
she thought this data protection breach also meant shed be paying more for her mortgage.
Miss R said she spoke to Barclays in October 2022, and discovered that the primary email 
and contact number details on file for her were those of her ex-partner. She wanted to know 
what personal financial details had been divulged to her ex-partner, but Barclays hadnt told 
her. Barclays had responded to her complaint with an offer of compensation, but it hadnt 
explained what had gone wrong, or how this happened, or what information it had shared 
with her ex-partner. 
Miss R said Barclays response also told her it had been unable to contact her by phone or 
email. She said that was very strange, shed had no issues with other companies. She said 
this might be part of Barclays failure to maintain accurate contact information and stay within 
data protection guidelines.
When Barclays wrote to Miss R, it said it had held incorrect contact information on her 
account. It said this had been updated as soon as she contacted it, on 12 October. It offered 
to pay £200 for this mistake. It wasnt clear if Barclays had appreciated then that it wasnt a 
case of Miss Rs former partner not being taken off this account when they separated, but 
that Miss Rs partner should never have been associated with this mortgage at all. 
Our investigator wrote to Barclays asking for more information, and pointing out that Miss 
Rs application for this mortgage had been in her sole name. In reply, Barclays showed our 
service that it had amended Miss Rs details right away, when she contacted it. It showed us 
that she had requested paper statements, so it said they didnt go astray, they were sent by 
post to her home. And it checked its historical records, to see when Miss Rs ex partners 
email address and phone number were added to the mortgage. It said this happened around 
the time when the mortgage was set up. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said he understood, because of 
what Miss R had told us about the split from her ex-partner, that she wouldnt want any 
communication sent to them. He said Barclays hadnt been able to show us what was sent to 
the ex-partner. It said text messages were deled after 90 days, and it hadnt been able to 
show the emails it sent. Our investigator noted that emails are generally only sent for 
marketing purposes. And our investigator said hed checked, there had been no contact with 
Miss Rs ex-partner by letter or phone. 
Our investigator said Miss Rs ex-partners details should never have been added to this 
mortgage account. He thought Barclays should increase its compensation offer to £400. But 
he said this mistake didnt mean Miss R was paying more for her mortgage now. He said her 
mortgage offer confirms the fixed rate ends on 31 January 2023, and annual statements 
reminded her that an early repayment charge (ERC) would apply until then. So he didnt 
think Barclays was responsible for Miss R not securing a new rate sooner.
Miss Rs representative replied on her behalf. He asked if our service would rule on the 
breach of data protection rules, and whether Miss R could also pursue this complaint with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). He then wrote again to say that Miss R didnt 
want to accept our investigators proposed resolution. Barclays hadnt shown what was sent 
to her ex-partner, and she felt this needed further investigation. 
Our investigator said he had taken into account the potential data breach, which was the 
reason for recommending increased compensation. Miss R was still free to pursue this with 
the ICO, but he set out that the role of the ICO and of our service do differ. He said the ICO 
regulates compliance with data protection laws in the UK. It has the power to order 
businesses to comply with data protection laws and to fine them. But it doesnt have the 
power to award compensation to consumers, which our service can do. 
Our investigator noted that whilst there wasnt evidence in this case which put all the issues 
beyond any doubt at all, he thought, on the balance of probability, that Miss Rs ex-partner 
may have received some marketing emails, particularly as this prompted the initial 
complaint. But Barclays had shown us that official documents such as annual statements 
had been sent to Miss R by post, and had been correctly addressed. There were also no 
account notes for any phone calls to the ex-partner. So he said he was satisfied that any 
potential breach was limited to the emails. Marketing emails only contain limited personal 
information, and in this case it seemed likely that it was only the end date of a mortgage 
product. So our investigator said he still thought £400 was a fair resolution here. 
Miss R wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Its clear that Barclays has made a mistake here, because it did add Miss Rs ex-partners 
contact details to her new mortgage. I understand that this alone would have been very upsetting for Miss R, and I have sought to take that into account when considering 
appropriate compensation in this case.
Miss R said she became aware of this when her ex-partner told her that her fixed rate 
mortgage deal was ending soon. Like our investigator, I think that means its likely some 
marketing emails (such as those encouraging customers to take out new mortgage deals) 
were sent to Miss Rs former partner. 
As email isnt a secure method of communication, banks dont routinely share the most 
personal information on mortgage accounts over email. And here, like our investigator, I 
think that, fortunately, it does seem most likely that no more sensitive data  like information 
on repayments  was sent to Miss Rs ex-partner. Miss R had requested statements by post, 
and I understand she accepts these were sent to her. I havent seen anything to make me 
think that any post was also sent to her ex-partner, or that calls were made to that person 
either. 
I want to be clear that Miss Rs ex-partners email should never have been attached to this 
mortgage, and that person should not have received any information at all about her 
mortgage. But I do think its most likely that the information shared was limited, and Ive also 
taken that into account in my decision.
Miss R thought shed have taken out a new mortgage deal sooner, if the information which 
was supposed to reach her hadnt gone astray. But, as our investigator noted, the expiry 
date of Miss Rs mortgage was set out in her offer documentation. And each annual 
statement included a reminder of the expiry of the ERC on that mortgage, which I think 
reasonably ought to have made Miss R aware of the expiry date of her mortgage deal. So I 
dont think Barclays is also responsible for Miss R not securing a new mortgage deal earlier, 
and at a potentially lower rate. 
I know Miss R would like further information on exactly what was sent to her ex-partner. But 
ours is a relatively informal dispute resolution service, and Im satisfied we have enough 
information here to reach a view on what would form a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So I wont ask Barclays to provide more information now. Miss R is of course also 
free to ask the ICO to investigate this matter, if she wishes to do so.
For the reasons set out above, I also think that Barclays should pay more compensation in 
this case. I think that a payment of £400 does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, and thats what Ill now ask Barclays to pay.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss R a total of £400 in 
compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards this amount any payment of 
compensation it has already made to Miss R for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman