DRN-4281719
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) mis-sold an 
annuity to him. He said he had medical conditions at the time of the sale which may have 
meant he couldve purchased an enhanced annuity. But HLAM didnt make him aware that 
might be a possibility.
Mr A is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr A had a pension with another provider. I understand that HLAM was put into contact with 
Mr A to provide Open Market Options for his retirement in 2009. 
HLAM said that Mr A used its service on an execution only basis. And that when it acted in 
this capacity, it didnt provide any advice  it simply executed the instructions it was provided 
with.
HLAM said it contacted Mr A as part of its Retirement Annuity Service in the second half of 
November 2009. It said it sent him quotes on 16 November 2009. And that it had made him 
aware that if he or his spouse had any medical conditions, they should complete the medical 
questionnaire that was sent with the quotes. 
HLAM said it didnt receive a completed medical questionnaire from Mr A. So his annuity had 
proceeded on a non-enhanced basis.
Due to the length of time which has elapsed, HLAM dont hold copies of the specific letters 
sent to Mr A. But it has provided this service with details of its letter templates from that time. 
HLAM said that part of the quotation pack sent to Mr A stated:
Enhanced rates due to health or smoking  pension funds over £5,000
If you or your spouse or partner smoke or have medical conditions you should complete and 
return the medical questionnaire. It could result in a higher income. Even minor conditions 
such as high blood pressure can qualify, as can more serious conditions where you have 
been given the all clear.
This letter and the service we offer are not advice. If you are not sure of the suitability of an 
annuity for your needs you should seek independent financial advice.
HLAM said it issued its annuity summary to Mr A on 30 November 2009. This included the 
following statements: 
Check that one of the options shown meets your requirements.
Please read the booklet Important Information about Annuities sent in your original 
annuity summary pack, which contains our terms and conditions and important 
investment notes. Choosing your options is an important decision as once set up; an 
annuity cannot normally be cancelled or amended. If you would like help in 
understanding the various options please give us a call.
HLAM also said that the enhanced rates statement was repeated.
HLAM said it provided Mr A with a document Important information about annuities. This 
included the following statements:
This guide is provided solely to help clients make their own investment decisions and 
does not constitute a personal recommendation. It should not be seen as personal 
advice and if you are unsure of an investments suitability, or how to proceed, you 
should seek advice.
Your annuity quotation is based on the fund values and pension information you 
supply
Under Important Investment Notes, the document also stated:
Unless explicitly stated in writing, [HLAM] does not provide individuals with any 
specific advice regarding the suitability of any of the products mentioned for their 
personal circumstances. 
The information is provided solely to enable individuals to make their own investment 
decisions. 
The individual and/or trustee is responsible for deciding which features the annuity 
will include, for instance any dependants pension, guarantee period, increases or 
value protection. An annuity is a long term investment as it cannot normally be 
cancelled or transferred to another provider once it has been set up. 
Should you have any doubts as to the suitability of an investment for your 
circumstances, you should seek independent financial advice.
We provide a summary of some of the most competitive providers in specific 
response to the criteria you gave us.
HLAM also said it provided Mr A with a document Key facts about our service. This stated, 
under Which service will we provide you with?:
You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us. We may ask some 
questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details on. 
You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed.
It also said that HLAM wouldnt:
conduct a full assessment of your needs
offer advice on whether a non-stakeholder product may be more suitable
On 7 December 2009, Mr A called HLAM. The call recording is no longer available. But the 
call notes recorded that Mr A told HLAM hed been ill in the past. So he didnt think he would 
live for a long time. Therefore he wanted to know how his wife could benefit from his annuity. 
He also wanted to take a tax-free cash lump sum.On 9 December 2009, HLAM sent Mr A a further quote and an application form. A number of 
statements from earlier correspondence was repeated. And the following important 
additional points were made: -
Please check the quotation carefully, and read the key features and other insurance 
company documents.
Please check that the annuity quoted meets your requirements, as once set up an 
annuity cannot normally be cancelled or amended.
What you need to send to us: Completed application form and non-advisory 
declaration.
This service does not offer you advice and if you are not sure this annuity is right for 
you, you should seek advice  please contact us and we can out you in touch with an 
advisor.
Mr A signed his annuity declaration on 14 December 2009. This confirmed hed not received 
any financial advice from HLAM about the suitability of the annuity. And that hed made his 
own decision about it. 
Mr As chosen annuity provider received his annuity application on 21 December 2009. The 
annuity was set up on 14 January 2010, but backdated to 9 December 2009.
Mr A complained to HLAM about the annuity sale, through his CMC, on 13 January 2023. It 
made the following complaint points: 
Mr A had medical conditions which mightve meant he was eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. 
Despite this, HLAM hadnt made Mr A aware of this potential eligibility. It had 
therefore breached COBS 19.9.6A.
Mr A had made a loss as a result of HLAMs negligence. He wanted compensation 
for his losses plus statutory interest. 
Mr As CMC also brought his complaint to this service in March 2023. 
HLAM issued its final response to the complaint on 14 April 2023. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said it hadnt provided Mr A with any advice on his annuity. And that it had 
been Mr As responsibility to consider his options, including whether an enhanced annuity 
may have been suitable. It also said it was confident that it had made Mr A aware of the 
potential for extra income for people with medical conditions. But said that Mr A hadnt sent it 
a completed medical questionnaire, so his annuity had proceeded on a non-enhanced basis.
Our investigator asked Mr A when hed first become aware that he had cause for this 
complaint. His CMC said that he was nearing pensionable age over the last couple of years, 
so had wanted to check everything was in order. It said Mr A hadnt been aware until 
recently that he could make a complaint.
HLAM gave this service its consent for us to look at the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that HLAM had been 
clear that it hadnt provided Mr A with any advice. And that it had made Mr A aware that 
enhanced annuities were available. And provided him with a health questionnaire to complete if he wanted. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr A had told HLAM during the 7 December 2009 call 
that he suffered from ill-health. But said that the onus was on him to make HLAM aware of 
any health issues which could be considered. And noted that he hadnt done that, as he 
hadnt completed the health questionnaire.
Mr As CMC told this service that itd asked HLAM for all of the documents thatd been 
referenced in our investigators view. It said it was concerned that HLAM hadnt provided it 
with these documents before. And that Mr A had never seen any of this information and that 
it hadnt been previously sent to him. 
Therefore he hadnt received the medical questionnaire HLAM said itd sent him at the time 
of the sale. And this was why he hadnt completed it. It felt that although HLAM had acted on 
an execution only basis, it had breached its duty of care to Mr A. 
Our investigator considered the new information. But it didnt change his view. He said his 
understanding was that Mr A didnt dispute receiving other paperwork from HLAM. And that 
if this was correct then on the balance of probabilities, although he didnt remember 
receiving it, he most likely had received the health questionnaire. 
But even if he hadnt received it, he felt the other paperwork had made many references to 
ensuring all of the details provided were correct, and the quote didnt mention that it was 
enhanced. And the quotation pack had made it clear that he might benefit from completing a 
medical questionnaire if he or his spouse had medical conditions. 
Therefore, even if he hadnt received a medical questionnaire, he couldve questioned why 
that was the case before hed proceeded with the transaction. Our investigator felt Mr A 
knew he should have received a medical questionnaire, and that enhanced rates wouldnt be 
applied unless he returned one.
HLAM told this service that it couldnt see any request from Mr A for the information his CMC 
had said it had failed to share. And that if Mr A had wanted any of the information, he 
couldve asked for it. And HLAM wouldve been happy to send it to him.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr A. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator noted in his view that HLAM no longer held copies of all the documents itd 
sent to Mr A at the time of the sale. He felt this wasnt uncommon given how much time had 
passed. And noted that it wasnt a regulatory requirement to retain all of this information for 
so long. I agree with our investigator on these points. However, HLAM did retain example 
documents relevant to this complaint. Ive considered the information in these in making my 
decision.
Mr As position is that HLAM shouldve requested health information from him. And then 
offered him the opportunity to purchase an enhanced annuity. He feels HLAM breached 
COBS 19.9.6A.HLAMs position is that it didnt provide Mr A with any advice. It provided him with a medical 
declaration and made him aware that enhanced annuity rates were available. But that as Mr 
A hadnt completed the medical declaration, it didnt proceed with an enhanced annuity.
COBS 19.9.6A covers the information providers must now give out to enable consumers to 
understand whether it would be better for them to buy an annuity or draw out their pension in 
a less guaranteed way. I agree with our investigator that COBS 19.9.6A didnt come into 
force until March 2018, several years after Mr As annuity sale. So Ive not considered this 
part of Mr As complaint further.
Instead, Ive considered the regulators rules about what an annuity provider was required to 
do at the time of the annuity purchase. The rules required a provider to mention that annuity 
enhancements werent just for someone in poor health, but might also cover lifestyle 
conditions such as being overweight, having high cholesterol or smoking. 
I next looked at the information HLAM provided to Mr A. I needed to decide whether I 
considered hed been given enough information about enhanced annuities. And also 
whether hed been given the information the regulator had required him to be given at the 
time of the annuity purchase.
I acknowledge that Mr A disputes receiving some of the information HLAM said it sent him 
as part of the annuity process. But its clear that he received at least some of the paperwork. 
I say this because he signed and dated a number of documents, allowing the annuity 
purchase to go ahead. 
Mr A said he never received a medical questionnaire. I cant know for certain whether he did 
or didnt receive this document. HLAM said it wouldve been sent with the quotes, which Im 
confident Mr A did receive. 
In any event, I agree with our investigator that, regardless of whether or not Mr A received a 
copy of the medical questionnaire alongside his quotes, there was enough information in the 
documentation he did receive about enhanced annuities for him to have asked for one to 
complete before hed proceeded with the transaction. I also consider that the information 
made it clear that it was Mr As responsibility to let HLAM know if he had any medical 
conditions he wanted to be considered for his annuity. And that the information Mr A was 
provided with wouldve made him aware that he shouldve received a medical questionnaire, 
and that enhanced rates wouldnt be applied unless he completed and returned one.
As I mentioned earlier, the rules at the time of the annuity purchase required a provider to 
give a consumer information about enhanced annuities. They needed to mention that 
annuity enhancements werent just for someone in poor health, but might also cover lifestyle 
conditions. Im satisfied that the information HLAM sent to Mr A did this. 
I acknowledge that Mr A did tell HLAM during his call with them on 7 December 2009 that he 
didnt expect to live for very long. But there was no requirement for HLAM to do anything 
with this information unless Mr A asked it to. And it could only use such information as the 
basis for a potential enhanced annuity quote if Mr A had formally disclosed his medical 
conditions on a medical declaration. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied that HLAM ensured that Mr A received the information 
required under the rules in force at the time. I say this because Im satisfied that given Mr As 
existing health conditions, the information provided wouldve given him reasonable 
awareness that he might get a better pension if he completed a medical questionnaire and 
tried to buy an enhanced annuity. Once he had that awareness, it was then up to him 
whether or not to submit a completed medical questionnaire.In my view, HLAM provided Mr A with clear, and not misleading, information that it wasnt 
providing him with any advice. And that it wouldnt make any comment on the suitability of 
the annuity he chose. It was also clear that it was up to Mr A to decide what sort of annuity 
was suitable for him. And that if he wasnt sure, he should seek independent financial 
advice.
Based on what Ive seen, HLAM did make Mr A aware that there might be a possibility he 
could buy an enhanced annuity. I havent found any evidence that HLAM acted incorrectly. 
So I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman