DRN-3707377
The complaint
Ms Gs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf
that she was given unsuitable investment advice.
In summary, the CMC says:
Ms G was exposed to too much risk, given her lack of investment experience.
The fund currently holds 55.73% in equities, and the remainder in cash and bonds, 
therefore the decision to invest in the fund was inappropriate.
What happened
In late August 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im unable to
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the OEIC  invested in the portfolio  was 
unsuitable for Ms G.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope that Ms G wont take the fact my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think the advice
to invest in the portfolio was broadly suitable for Ms G. I note that she was in her late-40s,
married and in permanent employment with a reasonable income and net monthly
disposable income. She had no plans to retire until she reached at least the age of 65.
I note she had almost £20,000 in savings from both personal and joint savings. She had no
financial dependents, debts or liabilities and wanted investment advice regarding the future 
Im satisfied she was in a reasonable position to invest.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Ms G to arrive at the conclusion that she
was a balanced risk investor, out of secure, cautious, balanced, progressive,
adventurous and specialist risk categories. I note balanced was the third of the risk
categories and there were three higher risk categorises ahead of it. In the circumstances,
and on balance, Im satisfied that her risk appetite was discussed and that she was willing to
take a balanced risk approach  in the medium to long term  with a portion of her money to
meet her objective.
I note balanced risk was defined by Lloyds as follows:
A Balanced approach means investments carry a risk of loss of capital value but have the
potential for capital growth and/or income over the medium to long term. Typically they do
not have any guarantees and will fluctuate in capital value.
It could be argued that a balanced risk was reasonable and maybe necessary given her
objective to achieve better returns over the medium to long term, and higher returns than
she wouldve got in a bank account (to beat inflation).
Despite what the investigator says about the asset allocation in 2011, its not clear what it
was in 2008/9, so in the circumstances, Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint on the
basis of what it was in 2011  two years after the point of sale.
In any case, Im unable to say that a rough split between equities  a lot of which were in UK
equities  and bonds meant the recommendation to invest in the OEIC was unsuitable. I
note the business says the recommendation had a low to medium' risk rating.
I note Ms G answered Ten to Agree (sic), (in relation to the regular savings) and Tend To
Disagree (in relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the following question:
I am concerned about the impact of inflation on my money over the medium to long term 
and am prepared to take a risk to compensate for this.
Ms G answered Tend To Disagree (in relation to regular savings) and Strongly Agree (in
relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the following question:
Keeping my money intact is more important to me than the impact of inflation on it. 
She also answered Tend To Disagree (in relation to regular savings) and Strongly
Disagree (in relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the following question:
I want the best opportunity for long term growth eve (sic) if this means significant ups and 
downs in its value during the investment term.
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied its possible for Ms G to have a cautious
attitude to risk in relation to the lump sum investment, and a balanced risk in relation to the
regular savings investment. Ms Gs answers also tend to suggest that she was willing to
accept a greater risk with her regular savings than she was with her lump sum investment. I
note the next category up on the scale from cautious is balanced.
In this instance, its not just the investment itself that determined how much risk Ms G was
willing to take  Im not persuaded that it was simply investment led  her risk appetite also
encompassed the amount she wanted to invest, how often, for how long and what her
financial circumstances were at the time. I agree with the business that her collective
answers to the risk-based questions were also considered and important.
For example, its possible for an investor to take a higher risk with a smaller amount of
money whist employed, than it is for an investor with a large lump sum, when retired with no
means of replacing loss. The process itself is dynamic and has to be assessed on the basis
of individual circumstances including any other investments and level of risk taken.On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that
Ms Gs risk appetite was reasonably considered and that she was recommended a product
that carried no more risk than she was willing to take for that money and the
recommendation met her key objective for capital growth.
I note Ms G, of her own volition, decided to invest £100  rather than £50 as advised. This
doesnt suggest that she had any concerns about the level of risk she was taking with this
portion of her money. Even if the amount she decided to pay rendered the risk unsuitable 
and Im not suggesting that it did  its not something I can blame the business for. Ms G
cant be stopped from doing what she wants to do even if its going over and beyond the
advice. I note Ms G kept the investment for six years before surrendering it. This doesnt
suggest that she had any issues with affordability, access to cash or was unhappy with the 
advice she received.
Given the length of time  almost 15 years since the sale of the portfolio and almost seven
years since it was surrendered  Im not surprised the business doesnt have more
documentation available. Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so its
not something I can blame Lloyds for.
On balance Im satisfied that the key policy documentation provided made reasonably clear
the nature and operation of the investment. In any case, theres nothing to suggest that Ms
G couldnt take a balanced risk approach or even higher if thats what she wanted to do with
a regular savings investment, having invested a £10,000 lump sum in a capital protected
product.
I note that Ms G might be unhappy with the returns upon surrender, but Ive seen no
evidence to suggest that she was given any guarantees about the level of return. Just
because she didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation was 
unsuitable. I note Ms G remained invested during one of the worst global financial crises  I
cant say that this wouldnt have had an impact on her investment(s).
I appreciate Ms G will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, provisionally Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give Ms G what she wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Lloyds responded and said it had no further points to add.
The CMC also responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it made 
the following key points:
It appreciates that consumers can have alternating Attitude to Risk (ATRs) between a 
monthly investment and a lump sum investment, however this wasnt the case with 
Ms G and Mr B. 
The answers provided in respect of the regular savings ATR werent based on a 
maximum and minimum amount.
So, whilst it has been suggested that individuals could have higher ATR when 
considering a small amount of their spare income, there wasnt any basis for knowing 
how much was being considered for investing. Clearly, with an investment of £20 a 
month Ms G could take a higher risk, than with an investment of £1,000 a month. In the circumstances, its far more likely, their ATR wouldnt be significantly higher 
than the lump sum investment.   
The adviser made clear that the investment was suitable for their monthly 
investments and that if they had more money, they could invest it in the same funds  
without additional costs  and its for this reason they were happy to follow the 
advisers suggestion and invest £100 a month each.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from the CMC, my decision not to 
uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im still unable to
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the OEIC  invested in the portfolio  was 
unsuitable for Ms G.
Taking the CMCs last point first. Whether or not it was the advisers suggestion that Ms G 
could invest any spare addition sums, Im satisfied that she decided, of her own volition, to 
double the amount of the recommended monthly investment. 
It seems to me this was an amount that Ms G could afford to invest every month, and take a 
greater risk with, without it materially impacting her life  and she was evidently content to do 
so. Ms G probably couldve increased the monthly amount by a much smaller sum but didnt 
 I cant blame the business for this.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, the above would 
also suggest there were likely to be discussions about possible monthly contributions  in 
terms of risk, and what Ms G could afford to invest. 
In other words, on balance Im unable to safely say that an ATR assessment  in respect of 
the regular savings  took place without a discussion on what amount Ms G could afford to 
invest. Given her financial circumstances, I think it highly unlikely that a contribution of 
£1,000 a month, or any amount near this sum, was ever considered likely.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I still think its possible for Ms G to have a cautious
attitude to risk in relation to the lump sum investment, and a balanced risk in relation to the
regular savings investment. 
Ms Gs answers to the ATR questions also tend to suggest that she was willing to accept a 
greater risk with her regular savings than she was with her lump sum investment. I note the 
next category up on the scale from cautious is balanced  out of secure, cautious, 
balanced, progressive, adventurous and specialist risk categories  I also note 
balanced was the third of the risk categories and there were three higher risk categorises 
ahead of it. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to agree with the CMC that 
this was significantly higher risk than her lump investment. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, its not just the investment itself that determined 
how much risk Ms G was willing to take  Im not persuaded that it was simply investment 
led  her risk appetite also encompassed the amount she wanted to invest, how often, for 
how long and what her financial circumstances were at the time. I agree with the business 
that her collective answers to the risk-based questions were also considered and important.
I appreciate Ms G will be thoroughly unhappy that I still havent changed my decision and 
havent given her what she wants. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask 
Lloyds to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Ms G what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman