DRN-3539722
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay a claim they made on
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs S booked flights to a country Ill refer to as B. They were due to 
travel on 22 August 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance policy in December 
2019 which covered them for various medical conditions theyd declared.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
global pandemic. In April 2020 Mr S received a letter advising him to shield because his 
underlying health conditions meant that he was at risk of severe illness if he caught 
Covid-19. 
Initially the guidance was in place for a period of 12 weeks, but it remained in place until 1 
August 2020. Mr and Mrs S cancelled their holiday on 16 August 2020. They claimed for 
the cost of their flights from Ageas as they said that they were unable to travel due to 
Mr Ss medical conditions. They didnt claim for their accommodation and car hire costs 
as they acknowledged these were booked in March 2020.
Ageas considered the claim but declined it on the basis that there was no cover under the 
policy due to the circumstances. And they said that, in any event, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt 
have been able to travel to B due to Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advice. So, they declined the claim. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S made a complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She said that the 
advice to shield was in place until August 2021. She thought that the definition of quarantine 
was broad enough to include the advice to shield. And she also noted that the policy had an 
exclusion for travelling against medical advice. So, she didnt think that it was fair that Mr S 
wouldnt have been covered if he cancelled due to the guidance to shield but also not 
covered if he travelled against medical advice.
Ageas didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They highlighted a 
number of decisions which they said demonstrated the Financial Ombudsman Service had 
previously agreed with their decision to decline claims. Our investigator highlighted what she
considered to be a more relevant decision issued by an ombudsman. 
In May 2022 I issued my provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ss complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules 
and guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this 
complaint.
In summary, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Ageas has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
The shielding guidance
Our investigator set out in detail why she thought it was fair and reasonable for 
Ageas to cover the cost of the flights. She considered the dictionary definition of 
quarantine and the exclusion relating to travelling against medical advice. I agree 
with her findings on these points. However, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint on that basis. Ill explain why.
The government guidance to shield ended in July 2020. So, from August 2020 there 
was no advice to shield. Mr and Mrs S werent due to travel until 22 August 2020 
which was after the guidance to shield was lifted. They cancelled a few days before 
they were due to travel, on 16 August 2020. Thats a few weeks after the guidance 
to shield was lifted.
Ive not been provided with any other contemporary evidence which demonstrates 
that Mr S was advised not to travel due to medical reasons. At the time Mr and Mrs S 
cancelled their holiday and at the time they were due to travel there was no shielding 
guidance in place.
So, I dont think it would be fair to direct Ageas to cover the claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
Mr and Mrs Ss trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. This means their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy, but I 
dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they 
found themselves in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the 
relevant law.
The prohibitive regulations clause and FCDO advice
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an 
exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO 
advice, the requirement to self-isolate and the recent lifting of the shielding advice  
are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs Ss decision not to go 
on their holidayAs our investigator explained the policy contains an exclusion which says there is 
no cover for:
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
So, Ive considered the relevance of this exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Based on the information available in the public domain the border of B was open 
and there was no requirement for Mr and Mrs S to self- isolate there on their arrival 
in August 2020. Im satisfied there were no prohibitive regulations in place at their 
destination at the relevant time. The wide-ranging restrictions on movement within 
the UK, commonly referred to as lockdown had also been lifted in early July 2020. 
And, as Ive explained above the guidance to shield, which wasnt enforceable by 
law, had also been lifted.
However, on the date that Mr and Mrs S cancelled there was FCDO advice against 
travelling to B. At that time the UK government had introduced a travel corridor 
system. B was not on the travel corridor list at the time Mr and Mrs S cancelled or 
on the dates that they were due to travel. This means that there was a legal 
requirement for travellers returning from B to quarantine at home for a period of 14 
days. So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss holiday not 
covered as listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion 
Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway as the 
requirement to quarantine was a regulation imposed by the UK government.
Whilst I have a lot of empathy with Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and can 
understand their decision not to travel to B, Im not intending to uphold their 
complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs S said that they thought it was 
disgusting that Ageas wouldnt pay out. In summary, that they said Mr S was having 
treatment for his medical condition, he advised not to go due to his medical condition, he 
was poorly and worried for his health. He also explained that he didnt decide against 
travelling because of the pandemic and took out his insurance before the pandemic was a 
known event. And, he didnt use the annual policy at all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further points made by Mr and Mrs S they havent changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why. When Mr and Mrs S claimed on the policy, they said that Mr S was advised not to go on 
holiday due to Covid-19 and referenced his medical conditions. When they complained to 
our service, they explained that they decided not to travel due to Mr Ss conditions as he was 
in the critical bracket and was told to shield. Mr and Mrs Ss testimony has been consistent 
on that point. So, I think its most likely that the holiday was cancelled because of the 
pandemic and the associated guidance to shield. 
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about receiving treatment but, as I outlined in my 
provisional decision, the government guidance to shield was lifted before Mr and Mrs S 
decided to cancel. And, Ive not been provided with any further medical evidence which 
clearly demonstrates that Mr S was advised not to travel. 
And, in any event, as I also explained in my provisional decision there is a further relevant 
exclusion in the policy. It says that claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country are not covered. So, in any event, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss 
cancellation claim is covered because the FCDO advice at the relevant time also included a 
legal requirement to stay at home for 14 days.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I 
dont think their claim is covered by their policy and there are no fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold their complaint.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman