DRN-2386201
The complaint
 Miss B complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Miss B took four payday loans between October 2012 and March 2013. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 04/10/2012 25/01/2013
2 £300 28/01/2013 22/02/2013
3 £250 07/03/2013 28/03/2013
4 £300 30/03/2013 28/11/2013
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender was wrong to have granted loan 1. But she thought 
that loans 2, 3 and 4 shouldnt have been lent as the repayment for loan 2 represented a 
significant proportion of Miss Bs income. So, she thought it was unlikely that Miss B 
wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for loan 2 or the subsequent loans.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, Mr Lender has said 
that:
it reviewed Miss Bs finances and established that she wouldve been left with £510 
after making the loan 2 repayment;
its expenditure assessment suggested the loan was affordable; and
as loan 3 was lower than loan 2, this doesnt suggest that Miss B was having to 
borrow again to meet her existing commitments.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss B doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Mr Lender wasnt 
wrong to have granted the first loan. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute and 
so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mr Lender did anything wrong when it 
provided loans 2, 3 and 4. But Ive kept the first loan in mind when thinking about the overall 
lending relationship between Mr Lender and Miss B. 
Mr Lender had to assess Miss Bs applications for borrowing to check if she could afford to 
pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Miss Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B.
At the time of lending Mr Lender was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The 
OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Mr Lender needed to check that 
Miss B could afford to repay her loans sustainably.
The guidance states that creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely 
ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And it states that this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
I agree with our adjudicator that when loan 2 was lent Mr Lender should reasonably have 
known its most likely Miss B wouldnt be able to repay the loan, or any later loans, without 
undue difficulty. 
As the adjudicator has pointed out, the total repayment for loan 2 (£390) represented, in my 
view a significant proportion of Miss Bs declared income of £900. Ive also considered loan 
twos repayment in the context of how quickly loan 2 was taken out after loan 1 and the 
apparent problem Miss B had with repaying loan 1 which was for a smaller sum. So, I think 
loan 1 and any future loans shouldnt have been lent. 
But, notwithstanding the above, in the circumstances I think that Mr Lender couldve, as a 
minimum, have asked Miss B about her regular expenses and other short-term 
commitments. I understand though that Mr Lender only asked about her income and verified 
her employment. 
In response to the assessment, Mr Lender has referred to an expenditure assessment 
which suggested the loan was affordable. But it doesnt appear to have asked Miss B about 
her regular expenses. Mr Lender seems to have concluded that Miss B had a disposable 
income of £510 based on the declared income (£900) less the repayment of £390. It would 
seem unusual for someone not to have any expenses and it doesnt appear that Mr Lender 
established that this was the case. So, Ive found that Mr Lender didnt properly assess that 
the loan was affordable.     I can also see that repayment of loan 1 was deferred. Miss B didnt pay the first scheduled 
repayment of both principal and interest, choosing to only repay the interest due (which was 
a facility available to Miss B under the terms of the credit agreement). She then rolled over 
loan 1 two times which I think shouldve alerted Mr Lender to the possibility that she mightve 
been having difficulty repaying the loan.  She then returned three days after repaying loan 
one, to take loan two, which was for a larger amount. 
 
From what I can see, Mr Lender didnt ask Miss B why loan 1 was extended to established 
whether she mightve been in financial difficulty or subsequently complete proportionate 
checks when it approved loan 2. 
What we do know about loan 2 is that the highest repayment was a significant proportion of 
Miss Bs income. Loan 2 was also 50% higher than loan 1 and lent shortly after loan 1 had 
been repaid (following a couple of extensions). Subsequently, the level of lending for loans 3 
and 4 wasnt broadly dissimilar and there were no particularly significant gaps between 
loans.   
So overall, I dont think that Mr Lender could reasonably have believed, based on what it had 
established, that Miss B wouldve been able to make the repayment for loan 2 sustainably 
without the need to borrow further. This presented a significant risk that Miss B wouldnt be 
able to repay this, or any later, loans without undue difficulty. 
So, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4 and have set out what             
Mr Lender should do to put things right as detailed below.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 2, 3 and 4 from Miss Bs credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
PDL Finance Limited should put things right for Miss B as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman