DRN-1686030
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained National Westminster Bank Plc won't refund £200 for a payment he 
didn't make or authorise.
What happened
Mr R got in touch with NatWest after noticing a payment of £200 had been made from his 
account on 18 January 2020.  He'd also managed to trace the person the money had gone 
to using social media and had asked them to send the money back. They hadn't. He told 
NatWest he'd not made this payment and asked them to refund him.
NatWest didn't believe this looked like a fraudulent payment.  It had been made using Mr R's 
normal mobile phone and the payment was sent to someone he'd sent money to before.
Mr R was unhappy with this conclusion. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence.  This included Mr R's mobile banking logs. He 
believed Mr R had made this payment himself.  He may even have done so by accident as it 
was to someone he'd sent money to previously.  However, there was no basis to ask 
NatWest to refund him.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome. He's asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing specific in this case to affect the decision I'm making 
here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what NatWest and Mr R have told us.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transaction was made were covered in our investigators view of 12 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my 
decision. I can reassure Mr R and NatWest Ive read the file thoroughly.
The following summarises what Ive considered:
The payment of £200 was sent on 18 January 2020 to someone who Mr R had sent 
money to in the past.  I've seen evidence of a payment made in July 2013. This 
suggests it's someone he knew but not someone he paid regularly.
Mr R has told us what was happening the day of the payment and why it was likely 
not him.
NatWest's mobile banking logs show the payment was made on the same phone as 
Mr R used for his banking.  The IP address also matched an address he'd been at for 
accessing his mobile banking previously too.
Mr R has told us his phone is password-protected, and he hadn't shared his mobile 
banking details with anyone.
The same day a payment of £200 was made to Mr R's account.
I can see no reason why a person at the same property as Mr R would get hold of his 
phone to send money to someone Mr R had sent money to before.
 
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the logon details to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr R in this case) authorised 
this payment. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Rs 
details and phone, made this transaction or to investigate who that potential fraudster may 
be. 
I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have used Mr 
Rs account without his consent. Ive thought about different scenarios that could have 
happened here. I think the most likely thing to have occurred is that Mr R mistakenly sent 
£200 to an existing payee.  He immediately knew he'd made a mistake but couldn't get the 
money back from the person he sent it to. 
Although Mr R may not have intended to send someone £200, overall I believe this is what 
happened.  That means Mr R made or authorised the payment.  On that basis I can't ask 
NatWest to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr R's complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman