DRN-1886407
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way that Aspray Ltd, as loss assessors, dealt with the 
repairs to their home following their home insurance claim for water damage.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr and Mrs M suffered an escape of water which caused considerable damage 
to their home. They appointed Aspray to act for them in negotiating the claim and in 
arranging for contractors to carry out the work, including initial strip out and drying.. There 
followed a period of negotiation and agreeing a scope of works. By January 2018, Aspray 
had agreed with the insurer for a total cash settlement to enable the works to be carried out. 
The works were largely completed by September 2018, and the cash settlement was then 
paid out by the insurer. Then in October 2018 Mr and Mrs M noticed the pressure in their 
boiler starting to drop. A leak detection company was appointed to see if this was a leak. 
This proved to be problematic but a leak was eventually traced to a joint in the pipework 
under the floor laid by Asprays contractor (R). He agreed to make a claim on his own insurer 
and repairs were carried out and completed in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Aspray about the remedial repairs, in particular about the way 
they were carried out. They were also concerned about the delay in completing the repairs 
and that Aspray had sought payment from their insurers even though they hadnt signed a 
certificate of satisfaction.
Aspray said that the scope of works allowed for plastic piping to be installed. Mr and Mrs M 
specifically agreed with R that he would install copper piping, and that they would pay for this 
themselves. As the subsequent leak came from those areas of piping, Aspray said it wasnt 
responsible for arranging its repair as that was part of a private arrangement with R and it 
was agreed that his insurer would deal with it. It further said there were no delays in getting 
the repairs arranged and that its responsibilities were concluded when it requested payment 
from the insurer. No certificate of satisfaction needed to be signed before obtaining the cash 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs M said the scope of work allowed for pipework, it didnt specify the materials. 
They deny having had any arrangement with R that they would pay him directly. They 
havent been invoiced or asked for payment.
R later clarified that he had quoted for and agreed with Mr and Mrs M directly for the work to 
the pipes but hadnt invoiced Mr and Mrs M or Aspray for it.
On referral to this service our investigator ultimately found that the work carried out by R was 
a private agreement between him and Mr and Mrs M, so Aspray wasnt responsible for it. He 
thought there were no substantial delays and that although Asprays terms said a certificate 
of satisfaction needed to be signed it wasnt a condition on the monies being released.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
pipework repairs
Mr and Mrs M deny that they had any private contract with R over the pipework, and pointed 
to the fact that they were never invoiced for this. On 31 October 2017 Mrs M sent an email to 
Aspray saying:
[R] also sent his quote through last night for re-piping the conservatory so we will take a 
look at that and arrange for him to do the work shortly
That quote was for £850 and was for the re-piping of the radiators with copper tubing and 
for the tracking of the pipes under the floor.
On 3 November 2017 Mrs M wrote in email:
When should [R] replace the plastic pipework in the sunroom with copper? We have 
approved to cover the cost of these works.
Mr and Mrs M say that that was a speculative quote, sent out before the scope of works was 
drawn up, and in that scope the plumbing was allowed for. As far as they are concerned the 
pipework in the sunroom/conservatory was included in the scope and did not specify 
materials. They confirm they were never invoiced for the work.
R, in a letter to Aspray, said I write to confirm that the leak that happened in Mr & Mrs [M's] 
sunroom following the upgrade of the pipe work in the sunroom from HEP to copper as 
instructed and agreed by Mr & Mrs [M] for the sum of £850.00.
He confirmed he hadnt invoiced Mr and Mrs M for this work, nor had he invoiced Aspray. I 
dont think thats surprising, considering that the work turned out to be faulty, and became 
the subject of a claim made by R on his own insurance.
Whilst the scope of work was drawn up after the exchanges of emails above, I think the 
sequence of the emails indicates firstly that Mr and Mrs M agreed that the upgrade in the 
pipes from plastic would have to be paid for separately. They received a quote (which 
doesnt appear to be speculative to me) which they then told Aspray had been accepted. I 
accept that it would have been helpful if the exact contractual position had been set out after 
that but I think the evidence shows that the piping in the conservatory was a private 
arrangement between R and Mr and Mrs M. It was resolved through Rs insurers and not by 
any action on the part of Aspray.
Aspray is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority for assisting in the administration 
and performance of a contract of insurance. This include the negotiation of the claim, and 
agreeing the settlement from the insurer and overseeing the work of the contractors until 
receiving the settlement. But the re-piping of the conservatory with copper didnt come within 
the settlement, as Ive said this was I think done under a private arrangement with R. 
So as the subsequent leak related solely to the pipework in the conservatory, if Aspray had 
chosen to become involved it wouldnt have been carrying out a regulated activity. So the 
fact that it left it to R to arrange the remedial repairs through his insurer, was I think a 
reasonable step to take. I dont think Aspray is responsible for the subsequent leaks and 
remedial repairs to the pipework in the conservatory, nor for any problems that arose in the 
course of that work..So far as the certificate of satisfaction is concerned, Asprays terms and conditions say:
Upon satisfactory completion of reinstatement work, You shall provide [written] confirmation 
to Aspray of your satisfaction with the services undertaken and/or goods supplied under this 
agreement.
That is part of the customers obligations under the agreement. It doesnt affect the obtaining 
of the cash settlement from the insurer. At the stage of requesting the settlement, all the 
works had been undertaken and the contractors needed paying, save for the problems with 
the pipework.
Regarding delays, this was an extensive escape of water and there will inevitably be delays 
in negotiating the claim, allowing for strip out and drying and in organising the contractors to 
do the work. Mr and Mrs M didnt advise us that they had any specific complaint concerning 
any delays prior to the discovery that the boiler pressure was dropping, traced to a leak in 
the pipework.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman