DRN-2767432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in 1982. At that stage, they didnt take out any PPI. 
In 1992 Mr and Mrs P took out a further advance on their mortgage account. They also took 
out PPI. The policy protected their mortgage monthly repayments and provided them with 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover in the event that Mr P couldnt work. There was 
a 90 day waiting period before being able to claim on this policy  then it couldve paid out 
for up to 24 months per claim.
In June 1999, Nationwides records indicate that Mr and Mrs P took out new PPI to cover 
Mr P. The monthly benefit amount that the policy could pay out was set at £300 and this 
policy paid out after just 30 days  and for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness 
and unemployment.  
In November 2002, Mr and Mrs P arranged a flexible advance in order to borrow more 
money on their mortgage account. At the same time they arranged additional PPI in Mr Ps 
name that extended the cover they already had in place so the policy paid out enough to 
also include the extra amount they had arranged to borrow. 
Mr and Mrs P mainly said that their other policies and Mr Ps employment terms meant he 
would have received money if he was off work sick and generous redundancy terms if he 
lost his job. So they felt extra insurance wasn`t necessary for them. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs P disagree 
and theyve put forward a number of points in support of their complaint as follows (in brief 
summary):
it appeared Nationwide had provided only selective information from its records
our adjudicator drew conclusions based on opinion and not fact and didnt deal with 
all aspects of their complaint
some of their arguments havent been addressed
they dispute that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to them 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im thinking about not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs P are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs P to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out PPI as this was so long ago. And what Mr and Mrs P say isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, 
as some of it is here, I must make my decision based on what I think is likely to have 
happened taking into account all the information thats available, what the parties have told 
me and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time. This 
means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And 
I must be impartial. 
I've taken carefully into account everything I've seen and been told about what happened 
each time Mr and Mrs P took out PPI or made changes to their cover.
what happened in 1992
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs P in 1992. But 
as this happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs P or Nationwide to have 
kept this. A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal 
private information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws 
set out rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details 
secure. The fact that Nationwide cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me 
to uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P told us this PPI was sold to them over the phone  so that may well be what 
happened. Although Nationwide cant confirm how it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs P, 
Nationwide told us what its sales process was at the time when it sold PPI to its customers.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr P wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage without their agreement. Heres 
why I say this. 
In 1992, Mr and Mrs P applied for a further advance of 11,500. Nationwide told us PPI 
wasnt automatically required as part of their application for a further advance. Mr and Mrs P 
would've had to fill in a separate PPI application to take out PPI.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps comments, including what theyve said about people 
feeling pressured into taking out PPI. But Mr and Mrs P had taken out their mortgage without 
PPI and it had been running for around 10 years or so without PPI. 
So at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs P would've understood that PPI wasnt required as 
part of their mortgage. The mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ps home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and it looks to me like Mr and Mrs P couldve 
found the policy useful if Mr P had needed to claim. And it offered Mr and Mrs P security and 
peace of mind that their mortgage would still be paid even if Mr P wasnt able to work, So, 
I can see why Mr and Mrs P mightve felt PPI was useful to have now they were increasing 
the amount of their mortgage borrowing even if they didn't want it before.
I can completely understand how Mr and Mrs P could have forgotten these details as this 
happened such a long time ago. But, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P 
decided they wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered them and they chose to buy the 
policy when they arranged their further advance.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs P. But even if Mr and Mrs P feel PPI 
mightve been recommended to them, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve 
been unsuitable  so this doesn't affect the outcome of the complaint. 
In any event, Nationwide should have told Mr and Mrs P enough about the policy for them to 
be able to decide if they wanted to buy it. And if that didnt happen, I have to decide whether 
this makes any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint.
On balance, I think its likely that Nationwide did give Mr and Mrs P enough clear information 
for them to be able to decide if PPI was right for them - and where it mightnt have done, 
better information wouldnt have made a difference to their decision to take out PPI for Mr P. 
Ill explain why I've come to this view.
Mr P was eligible for the policy. He told us that he wouldve been able to depend on getting 
6 months or more - but less than 12 months sick pay from his employer.
Bearing in mind that the policy paid out for up to 24 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim, it looks like the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr P 
couldve relied on getting sick pay through work. 
Also, the policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay giving Mr and Mrs P a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr P wasnt able to work when Mr and Mrs P may 
have faced extra costs as a result of Mr P being ill or disabled.  
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr P lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr P if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs P some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P mentioned having access to savings or other insurance worth around 
12 months pay. They havent sent me any more details about this. But this information isnt 
enough to change my mind and make me think that this is a complaint that I should fairly 
uphold.
There could be no guarantee that Mr and Mrs P would always have savings to rely on 
because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr and Mrs P didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of their 
borrowing when they arranged this further advance, perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial security or to spend on other things, then I think they 
wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs P could be 
sure theyd be able to pay the mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into savings.  
I think that having cover in place so they couldve continued to make their monthly mortgage 
repayments without having to rely on savings wouldve provided a useful extra benefit to 
Mr and Mrs P.
So this information doesnt affect my decision. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at 
the time, I think the policy couldve been useful to them (and if there was a recommendation, 
it wouldve been suitable). 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI when they took it 
out wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But 
it doesnt look as if Mr P was affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs P off taking out cover for Mr P.
I dont know if or how the policy costs were explained to Mr and Mrs P when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. As this was a policy 
they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs P couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if 
they didnt want to pay for it. 
what happened in 1999
Although theres no paperwork available, information stored in Nationwides records has 
helped to build up a picture of what happened. 
Nationwide has sent us some information showing that in June 1999 Mr Ps PPI cover was 
amended to provide a monthly benefit of £300, payable for a maximum claim benefit period 
of 12 months against accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr P remained as the sole 
person insured.
Nationwide told us that Mr and Mrs P werent able to amend their existing policy and so their 
policy was switched to the new PPI policy that Nationwide offered its customers at that time.
I dont know what prompted this change in Mr and Mrs Ps insurance arrangements  
Nationwide says it wasnt linked to any further borrowing and Mr and Mrs P dont recall 
anything about this. But it was up to Mr and Mrs P to keep their insurance arrangements 
under review so I think its reasonable to assume the new terms reflected Mr and Mrs Ps 
wishes at the time. 
And I can see that this policy had a much shorter waiting period  Mr P wouldve been able 
to make a claim on it after just 30 days (rather than the 90 days he had to wait previously). 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances had changed 
significantly. It looks like Mr and Mrs P wouldve continued to be able to take advantage of 
policy benefits that protected their mortgage monthly repayments even if Mr P wasnt able to 
work.  
So I think Mr and Mrs P couldve had a use for the policy if Mr P had needed to claim. 
I havent seen enough to be able to say that Nationwide mis-sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs P in 
1999.what happened in 2002
PPI wasnt extended automatically when Mr and Mrs P arranged this further advance. It 
wouldve been up to them to choose if they wanted to have any extra cover.
Ive seen a copy of the application form Mr and Mrs P completed when they applied for their 
further advance in December 2002. The form offered them the option of taking out PPI and 
Mr and Mrs Ps application is ticked next to where it says: We would like to protect my/our 
mortgage payments against accident, sickness and/or unemployment.
If Mr and Mrs P hadnt wanted to take out PPI there was another option they couldve ticked 
instead saying that PPI wasnt required. That option has been left blank on Mr and Mrs Ps 
completed application. 
Mr and Mrs P both signed the completed form confirming that the information on it was 
correct. 
So all this makes me think that Mr and Mrs P were aware at the time that having PPI was 
optional and that they chose to have it. 
Nationwide told us that the policy they applied for duplicated the benefits their existing policy 
offered. So, instead of issuing them a new policy, their existing policy was amended. 
Nationwides records appear to show that Mr and Mrs P got in touch about their PPI in 
January 2003 to say they wanted to increase their cover to £450 for their mortgage monthly 
repayments and also take out an additional £200 cover. 
And I can understand why Mr and Mrs P mightve been happy to agree the extra cost of the 
additional cover. The increased benefit protected their new mortgage monthly repayments 
and the additional benefit couldve been used to help pay other household costs, like utility 
bills. 
As far as I can see their circumstances were broadly the same. The policy gave 
Mr and Mrs P the same benefits  it couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event Mr P had an accident or became ill or if he lost his job unexpectedly and found himself 
out of work. So I think its likely that this PPI was taken out with their further advance as 
Mr and Mrs P wanted the PPI benefits to cover their increased borrowing. 
Mr P continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits available under the policy. 
And theres nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem  so thats not a reason for 
me to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs P still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think having clearer information 
wouldve put them off buying it. So, as things stand, Im not planning to uphold their mis-sale 
complaint.But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P said in response to the adjudicators view. Ive 
taken into account what Mr P said about the way financial businesses sold PPI. But each 
complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this 
particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.  
Although Mr and Mrs P mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint I've 
concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the outcome of their 
complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my provisional 
decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. Having done so, and as no further 
comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what I 
think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman