DRN-4099311
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G). 
She isnt happy that it turned down her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H made a claim under her pet insurance policy. Her pet had become unwell and was 
short of breath and was treated by her vet for Acute Onset Dyspnoea. 
When she made a claim C&G turned it down. This was because any claim while Mrs Hs pet 
was being looked after at kennels wasnt covered and her pet had recently been in kennels. 
As Mrs H wasnt happy about this she complained to C&G and then this Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mrs H and upheld her complaint. She didnt think  
there was sufficient evidence to say the difficulties Mrs Hs pet faced were caused or directly 
linked to the kennel attendance and there was no suggestion the pet was unwell while at the 
kennel. So, she asked it to cover the claim in full, in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
As C&G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to C&G, but Ill explain why.
I can understand C&Gs position, but I dont think it has sufficient evidence to support its 
stance. It has relied on the condition in the policy which says it will not pay Any claim where 
Your pet is being looked after by Pet Sitters, Pet Walkers, Kennels, Cattery and Groomers 
in turning down the claim. And while I understand this may be a possibility there isnt 
anything to say that this was the case. 
C&G has relied on generic assumptions as to possible causes and timeframes that may 
have been involved here. While Mrs Hs vet has said her pet .presented with acute 
respiratory distress, so I do believe that she developed the respiratory signs as the owner 
states - after she was in their possession, and they brought her to the clinic as soon as they 
started being concerned. And that as her pet was .oxygen dependant I really dont think 
she would have managed to be unwell for a longer period of time without receiving 
emergency treatment in the meantime.
I know C&G feel that the information provided by the vet doesnt have any clinical evidence 
to support their position but that is exactly how C&G have concluded its position on the 
claim. It hasnt provided any clinical evidence to support its position. And although it is 
possible that Mrs Hs pet condition started while at the kennels, or before, I cant be sure 
from the evidence presented by C&G. While the strongest piece of evidence comes from the 
treating vet as outlined above.  
Ultimately, the onus is on C&G to prove the exclusion applies and I dont believe, on 
balance, that it has. There is no suggestion from Mrs H or the kennel that her pet was unwell 
while it was at the kennels and the treating vets evidence is the strongest piece of evidence 
that we have. Given this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for C&G to cover the claim in full in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to cover the claim in full in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman