DRN-1617801
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) was irresponsible in lending to 
him and hes unhappy with the way it dealt with his account.
What happened
Mr W had a student account with RBS. He applied for an overdraft facility on the account 
which was approved in 2016. During the next couple of months, he made several 
applications to increase the overdraft limit. These applications were approved, taking the 
agreed limit to £2,000. Mr W says that, later on, he struggled financially and found it difficult 
to keep the account on track. He says that RBS acted irresponsibly by approving the 
overdraft, particularly as he had defaulted on a credit card account some years previously.
Mr W says that RBSs terms and conditions werent clear about how the overdraft would be 
dealt with when his account stopped being a student account. And hes unhappy that RBS 
referred his account to a debt collection agency.
Mr W raised his concerns with RBS but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had carried 
out checks each time Mr W had applied for credit, including checking his credit file, and that 
hed met its lending criteria. It didnt think it had made a mistake by lending to him.
RBS thought its terms and conditions were clear about what would happen to his account 
and overdraft when he was no longer a student. And it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong by referring his account to the debt collection agency.
Mr W wasnt happy with RBSs response so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
says the situation has caused him a great deal of stress and anxiety. He doesnt think RBS 
has treated him fairly and he thinks it should write off his debt in order to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong here, so he didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr W raised a number of other issues in 
his complaint about RBS. But those are being looked at separately, under a different 
complaint reference. So Im only looking here at the issues outlined above.
 
irresponsible lending
When Mr W applied for the overdraft and subsequent increases to the overdraft limit, RBS 
needed to check whether he would be able to repay the credit in a way which was sustainable and which wouldnt adversely affect his financial situation. It needed to carry out 
checks which were proportionate to things like the amount of credit being applied for and the 
information Mr W had provided about his financial situation. But there isnt a set list of 
checks which RBS had to make.
What Id expect is for RBS to perform enough checks before it lent to Mr W. Im satisfied it 
did that here. I note that Mr W made multiple applications for an overdraft facility on his 
account. None of these were accepted until 2016. He was granted an overdraft facility in 
January that year. He then made several applications to increase the overdraft limit, which 
were approved up to a limit of £2,000. After that, Mr W made several more applications to 
increase the limit, all of which were declined. So Im satisfied that RBS was reviewing each 
application individually and assessing it against Mr Ws circumstances at the time. 
I think RBSs decisions to lend were fair based on the information it had gathered, which 
indicated that the overdraft was affordable for Mr W and that he met its lending criteria. I 
realise that Mr Ws financial position has changed since borrowing the money. But RBS 
made its lending decisions based on the information which was available at the time of each 
of Mr Ws applications. And, from the information available, I think its decisions were fair at 
the time.
Mr W says that hed defaulted on a credit card account some years previously. I dont have 
any details about that. But I wouldnt expect a bank to reject a customers application for 
credit automatically because theyd had difficulties with an account in the past. Id expect 
them to look at the customers circumstances at the time of the application and make a fair 
decision based on the information gathered at that time by making enough checks. From the 
information available, I think RBS did that here.
terms and conditions
Ive looked at RBSs terms and conditions and I think theyre clear about how Mr Ws student 
account would be treated upon expiry of his student status, specifying the type of account to 
which his account would migrate. I also think the terms about overdrafts are clear. So I dont 
think RBS has acted unfairly in this respect. 
appointment of the debt collection agency
RBSs terms and conditions allow it to appoint a debt collection agency. And I dont think it 
acted unfairly by doing so here. Mr W exceeded his overdraft limit in early 2019 and made 
no further credits to the account after that. Around seven months later, RBS referred the 
account to the debt collection agency. I dont think that was an unreasonable step to take in 
the circumstances here, particularly given the amount of time which had passed.
conclusion
I realise Mr W feels strongly about his complaint and will find my decision disappointing. But 
I dont think RBS has acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6July2020.
Katy KiddOmbudsman