DRN-4300520
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited trading as Big Motoring World 
unfairly declined a claim he made on his motor warranty.
What happened
Mr A holds a motor warranty with Bapchild. When his car broke down, he took it to a garage 
to see what needed to be done to fix it. The garage said a new engine was needed. So, Mr A 
put in a claim for the engine to Bapchild.
Bapchild declined Mr As claim. It said the damage had occurred over time and was a result 
of wear and tear, which it said wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained to Bapchild. He said hed had no signs the car 
was about to break down and didnt think it was fair Bapchild said the issue was caused by 
wear and tear because of his cars mileage and length of ownership.
But, Bapchild didnt change its stance, so, Mr A brought his complaint to us.
Our Investigator recommended Mr As complaint be upheld. He thought that Bapchild hadnt 
done enough to show it was fair to rely on the wear and tear exclusion in his policy, because 
it hadnt shown the part had failed at the end of its reasonably expected working life. He 
recommended Bapchild pay Mr A the cost of replacing his engine (£12,578.02) and the 
diagnostic/stripping cost (£1,576.20). He thought Bapchild should pay 8% simple interest on 
these payments too. And he thought Bapchild should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr A agreed with our Investigators findings. Bapchild didnt and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. It maintained the fault was caused by wear and tear, and so was excluded from the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, Ill explain why.
Mr As warranty with Bapchild says hes not covered for any fault caused by wear 
and tear. And it defines wear as Damage or deterioration which has occurred as the 
result of repeated usage cycles and has not developed suddenly within the vehicles 
last journey.
Bapchild thinks this exclusion applies because an engineer has deemed the fault to 
be caused by excessive carbon build up on a component. It said the repairer had 
shown there was a pressure sensor fault too, indicating the fault did not occur 
suddenly within the vehicles last journey.
But, as our Investigator has explained, in order to fairly rely on a wear and tear 
clause in a warranty, we think the insurer, in this case Bapchild, needs to show the 
part has failed at the end of its reasonable working life. There are multiple moving 
parts in car and engines, and most of these moving parts will, over time, wear and 
eventually break. But theres a difference between something wearing and breaking 
as part of its usual working life, and something breaking through wear, earlier than 
expected, or as a result of something else causing it to wear quicker.
Here, its not in question that the component has failed due to carbon build up, but 
considering the age and mileage of the car, I dont think Bapchild has shown that on 
the balance of probabilities, the part has failed around the age and mileage it would 
reasonably have been expected to fail at. I appreciate its said that the part has been 
superseded by the manufacturer. But its not provided details as to why the part was 
superseded. And it hasnt shown how long the superseded part would reasonably be 
expected to last. Whats more, if the part had failed at the end of its reasonably 
expected working life, Bapchild hasnt adequately explained why the excessive 
carbon build up wasnt comparable on the cars other cylinders.
I take on board the comments relating to the sensor, but from the reports, it seems in 
dispute as to whether this sensor failing was what caused the carbon build up. And 
Ive not seen anything to show Mr A was aware of this sensor fault prior to his car 
needing to be repaired.
So, on that basis, I dont find it fair that Bapchild rely on the wear and tear clause in 
the policy. Therefore, it should pay Mr As claim. It should also pay the costs 
associated with dismantling Mr As car. The policy says these are covered for valid 
claims, and as set out above, Im satisfied this claim is valid.
I understand Bapchild thinks the costs Mr A has incurred are inflated. But Im 
satisfied thats what he paid to fix the car. Mr A didnt know at that stage whether or 
not his claim would be paid, in fact it looked like it wasnt because Bapchild had 
declined it. I see no reason why Mr A would have paid more than he needed to. I 
dont find it reasonable for Bapchild to limit any payment to what it would have cost 
them. It declined his claim, and so at that point lost control of the cost of it.
Having the claim declined and having to source and pay for the repairs yourself 
would be distressing. Bapchild should pay Mr A £200 compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Bapchild Motoring World 
(Kent) Limited trading as Big Motoring World needs to:
Pay Mr A £12,578.02 for the replacement engine. 8% simple interest should be 
added to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr A paid the 
invoice, to the date Bapchild pay him.
Pay Mr A £1,576.20 for the dismantling and diagnostics charges. 8% simple interest 
should be added to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr A 
paid the invoice, to the date Bapchild pay him.
Pay Mr A £200 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman