DRN-3437077
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that the broker Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited failed to 
arrange for her car insurance policy to auto renew.
What happened
Somerset Bridge contacted Mrs B before her car insurance policy was due for renewal on 3
June 2021. It emailed her on 11 May 2021 and quoted a renewal price of £774.72 with the
same insurer as the previous year.
It emailed Mrs B again on 14, 22 and 29 May 2021 quoting a higher renewal price of
£1,503.83 with a different insurer due to an amendment and confirmed it would automatically
renew her policy.
On 31 May 2021 Somerset emailed Mrs B to say her car insurance was due for renewal. But
this time it said it wouldnt automatically renew her policy due to an amendment. It said the
insurer was different to last year and the amended renewal price was £818.20.
On 4 June 2021 Somerset emailed Mrs B to tell her it hadnt renewed her policy and it had
lapsed.
On 21 June 2021 Mrs B called Somerset. She had been stopped by police for driving without
insurance on 20 June 2021. Mrs B told Somerset she hadnt received any of its emails and
believed her car insurance had automatically renewed. She raised a complaint as she said
she was at risk of receiving six penalty points on her licence and a fine.
Mrs B bought a replacement policy immediately and this prevented her car from being
impounded by the police.
On 24 June 2021 Somerset told Mrs B that her previous insurer agreed to provide indemnity
on the condition Mrs B renewed her policy with it. But as Mrs B had already bought a
replacement policy elsewhere, this wasnt an option.
In July 2021 Somerset responded to Mrs Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said as it had
emailed Mrs B on 31 May and 4 June 2021, it had made her aware that she was no longer
insured. And it hadnt provided any insurance renewal documents. So it said it wasnt
responsible for the consequences of Mrs B driving uninsured.
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint.
Our Investigator thought Somerset hadnt been fair to Mrs B and that Somerset should have
tried to contact Mrs B in other ways to let her know it would no longer be automatically
renewing her policy. This was because it had sent a number of emails confirming it would
automatically renew Mrs Bs policy  until three days before the renewal date when things
changed. The Investigator thought Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld and made the
following recommendations:
 Pay Mrs B £1,000 for the trouble and upset which has been caused and;
 Explain to the insurer that offered indemnity that but for Somersets error Mrs B
would have re-insured with them and ask them to reconsider their decision to write a 
letter of indemnity that she can take to court.
Mrs B accepted the Investigators recommendations. Somerset didnt agree. In summary it
said the emails were clear  and so it did tell Mrs B that her policy hadnt automatically
renewed and had lapsed. This was over two weeks before Mrs B was stopped by police 
and it hadnt sent any renewal policy documents to Mrs B. Somerset said it was sympathetic 
to Mrs Bs circumstances and would continue to reach out to the insurer to provide a letter of
indemnity. It also said that it was for Mrs B to ensure that she was insured.
On 1 April 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I intended to uphold Mrs Bs complaint for 
similar reasons to the Investigators. But my intended remedy to put things right was 
different. I intended to ask Somerset to provide a letter for Mrs B to provide to the court 
confirming that Mrs B would have remained insured but for its error. And I intended to ask 
Somerset to confirm it would consider any claims against Mrs B while she was driving 
uninsured. In line with the Investigators recommendation, I intended to ask Somerset to pay 
Mrs B £1,000 compensation. 
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision. She advised that the court date has been 
adjourned until July 2022. 
Somerset didnt agree. It says the underwriter is responsible for providing indemnity. It says 
it sent correspondence to Mrs B by email as the preferred method of communication. As Mrs 
B received the renewal invitation, it follows that she would have received the updated 
information about the policy lapsing. 
Somerset said it intended to provide a more detailed response before the deadline. As the 
deadline has now passed and no further information has been received, the case has been 
passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Somersets response to my provisional decision  but this hasnt changed 
my view. So my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
Mrs B provided Somerset with a copy of the police traffic offence report which confirms that
on 20 June 2021 it recorded an offence of Mrs B driving a car without third party insurance in
place. The report confirmed that Mrs B had the option of a driving awareness course but only
if eligible. If she was not eligible, the report said Mrs B would either be sent a conditional
offer of a fixed penalty  or be sent details of a court hearing at a magistrates court.
On 6 July 2021 Mrs B provided a copy email from the police confirming what it would accept
in order to prevent further action against Mrs B for driving uninsured. The police said it would
accept a letter on headed paper from the brokers email address with contact details
confirming that minimally third party insurance was in place at the time of the offence.
In response to the Investigators view, Somerset said the premium had changed on 12 May
2021 due to there being an open claim under the policy and this was the amendment itreferred to. Although the claim was updated later that today  which meant the original
insurer could provide a quote for less - Somerset said that it issued generic renewal
reminder emails on 14 May 2021 onwards and it wasnt until an agent checked on 31 May
2021 that it was discovered the claim had changed again. It said as a result of the claim
change, the premium it was offering Mrs B was no longer the cheapest. And due to how
close it was to the renewal date, this meant it wasnt possible for Somersets systems to
automatically renew the policy and set up a credit agreement and collect the first payment.
The updated insurer was the original insurer.
I understand Somersets explanation here as to why it wasnt able to automatically renew
Mrs Bs policy. But given the claim details were updated on 12 May 2021, I think Somerset
had a reasonable period of time before the renewal date to have updated Mrs Bs details
with a revised quote  and had it done so, her policy would have automatically renewed with
the same insurer as the previous year. And  having issued four emails to Mrs B confirming
its intention to renew her policy without Mrs B having to do anything  I think it should have
done more to try and speak with Mrs B by the renewal date  to let her know things had
changed and she needed to now take action in order to renew her policy.
So I think in this case that Somerset didnt do enough when dealing with the administration
of Mrs Bs policy. Although the insurer was prepared to offer insurance in response, by this
time Mrs B had already bought insurance elsewhere in order to prevent her car from being
impounded by the police.
So I think Somerset should put things right for Mrs B. Mrs B has explained that being
stopped by the police and the potential consequences of having points and/or a fine has
caused her considerable distress and worry. 
I therefore think a fair outcome for Mrs B is for Somerset to pay Mrs B a compensation sum
of £1,000 to reflect the worry, upset and the impact of future insurance premiums Mrs B may
incur as a result of the court hearing for driving uninsured.
I issued a provisional decision as the Investigators recommendations did not provide
indemnity for Mrs B as it relied on the actions of the insurer. I havent made a finding against
the insurer as it is a separate business  and Mrs Bs complaint is about the administration
of her policy by the broker Somerset, which I am upholding.
So I think Somerset should step in the shoes of the insurer and provide a letter confirming 
that - but for its error - Mrs B would have remained insured and that Somerset will consider 
any claims against Mrs B while she was driving uninsured.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
 Pay Mrs B £1,000 for the trouble and upset which has been caused and;
 Provide a letter for Mrs B to provide to the court confirming that Mrs B would have
remained insured but for its error and it will consider any claims against Mrs B while
she was driving uninsured.
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.If Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman