DRN-2906477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they got poor service from Society of Lloyds when Mrs W made 
a claim on her Specialist Vehicle insurance policy after an accident. Any reference to Lloyds 
in this decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W say their vehicle was damaged whilst Mr W was driving in Europe when a car 
emerged from a side road and entered their part of the main road. The other driver disputed 
liability and said Mr and Mrs Ws vehicle had moved onto her side of the road. Lloyds agent 
(based in the country where the accident happened) said that as there was no independent 
evidence of one party being wholly at fault, under the reciprocal practice of that country, 
each party should pay for the other partys damage. 
 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with that, mainly because they thought the circumstances of 
the accident, plus the photos and sketch they provided showed that they werent at fault. 
They didnt think a sufficient investigation had been carried out. They said that in the UK the 
case would have gone to court. Instead, Mrs W had to pay a £250 policy excess (which was 
later refunded) and she has a fault claim on her record, which may lead to higher future 
premiums. Mr and Mrs W were also unhappy about the time it took to finalise the claim.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He thought it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to conclude that the case should be settled as it was, in the absence of any 
independent evidence. He noted that it had reviewed the case handling and had decided 
that it could have been better, so it had offered Mrs W £75 compensation. The investigators 
view was that given the extent of the delays and the lack of updates from B, a further £225 
compensation would be fair. Lloyds disagreed. Mr and Mrs W said they still believed they 
shouldnt have been held even partially at fault for the accident. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for the claim to be settled in the way it was. I can see that Lloyds 
advised Mr and Mrs W of the term in the policy that gives it the right to settle any claim as it 
sees fit - taking into account its view of the likely outcome should the case be dealt with in 
court.  Although Mr W thinks the claim would have been handled differently in the UK,  in fact 
numerous cases of this type are settled here on a 50:50 basis (similar to the reciprocal 
process that was used in this case) and without an in-depth investigation. Consumers are 
often unhappy with that, as it means a fault claim will be recorded despite the fact that they 
dispute liability for an accident.  
We dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to avoid the cost of court proceedings if 
theres no independent evidence - and the circumstances of the accident mean that there 
are two possible explanations for what happened. I think it was reasonable for B to conclude 
that was the case here, and that it wouldnt be appropriate or reasonable to engage in further 
investigations or legal proceedings.
I dont think £75 is sufficient to compensate for the overall handling of the claim, which 
included what appear to be some long and inexplicable gaps and poor contact from Lloyds 
in providing updates. I appreciate that the claims process may usually take longer in general 
to complete abroad, but I think theres evidence that Lloyds could have progressed it more 
quickly and managed Mr and Mrs Ws expectations much better. 
During the first few months it seems there were few attempts to contact Mr and Mrs W. After 
they rejected the proposed settlement in April 2019, they werent told that Lloyds was going 
to settle the claim anyway. In fact, the proposed settlement was put to them again in 
September 2019. Mr and Mrs W rejected it again, but it seems there was little further 
progress or updates until after they raised a complaint six months later. Lloyds says there 
isnt always anything new to report, which is a fair point, but we think its reasonable in these 
situations to say so and to provide basic updates at regular intervals. That usually limits a 
consumers level of anxiety. 
I think Mr and Mrs W faced a great deal of frustration, worry and upset as a result of the poor 
service they received from Lloyds, which extended over a protracted period. In my opinion, 
£300 compensation in total isnt an excessive sum in these circumstances.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society of Lloyds to pay Mrs  
W a further £225 compensation (£300 in total) for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman