DRN-3347896
The complaint
Mr C mainly says Lanner Capital Limited (LCL) gave him unsuitable advice to make four 
investments in the TCA Global Credit Master Fund LP (TCAMaster) between 2014 and 
2019; that it failed to monitor those investments properly; and that, over the period of his 
investments, it either failed to obtain and disclose (to him) material information about 
problems in/associated with TCAMaster or it obtained but concealed such information from 
him. TCAMaster was suspended in 2020. Mr C seeks compensation for his losses. LCL 
disputes his complaint.
What happened
I issued a detailed and lengthy Provisional Decision (PD) for this complaint on 14 February 
2022. With regards to background, the PD included the following:
Background for TCAMaster
TCAMaster and other associated funds (and entities)  hereafter sometimes referred to as 
the TCA Group  have been subjected to investigation by the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC), to regulatory claims brought against them by the SEC in the 
United States District Court (USDC) of the Southern District and to a civil class action in the 
same court brought against their management entity (and their senior officials) by investors.
Based on the SECs submissions (of 11 May 2020) to the USDC, the TCA Group was 
structured as follows:
 TCAMaster  the master fund (MF); registered in the Cayman Islands in March 
2010.
 TCA Global Credit Fund LP (TCALP) and TCA Global Credit Fund Ltd (TCALtd)  
the feeder funds (FFs); both registered in the Cayman Islands in March 2010.
 TCA Fund Management Group Corp. (TCAMG)  the investment adviser and 
Discretionary Investment Manager to TCAMaster and the FFs (all three referred to as 
the Funds) from September 2011; registered in Florida, the United States, in June 
2011; earned a management fee/commission based on a percentage of the Funds 
Net Asset Value (NAV).
 TCA Global Credit Fund GP Ltd (TCAGP)  the general partner of TCAMaster and 
TCALP; registered in the Cayman Islands in January 2010; earned commission on 
TCAMasters profits.
 The FFs raised money from investors and fed the capital raised to TCAMaster; 
TCAMaster used the raised capital to provide financing (typically based on securities) 
and investment banking services to Small and Medium sized Businesses (SMB).
The SECs investigation into and claims against the TCA Group mainly feature the following 
allegations  that between 2010 and 2019 TCAMG fraudulently inflated TCAMasters 
revenue and the Funds NAV in two ways; first, between 2010 and 2016, by having 
TCAMaster record prospective loan fees as revenue before loans were actually concluded 
and before fees were binding on the SMB borrowers, and then maintaining these records of 
revenue until loans were concluded or until the records were removed if loans were 
subsequently not concluded; secondly, between mid-2016 and late-2019, by having 
TCAMaster record prospective investment banking (IB) fees based on capital raising 
agreements with SMB customers even though such customers were not paying (and could 
not pay) such fees until/unless TCAMaster successfully obtained financing for them (which 
was rare), and despite there having been little to no service provision at the time the revenue 
was recorded; that the inflated revenues in both respects were used to mislead investors to 
believe the Funds were performing well; and that the inflated revenues also led to TCAMG 
and TCAGP being overpaid (because their commissions were based on inflated NAVs and 
profits).
The SEC summarised the state of affairs up to and around 2020 as follows  The Funds 
current situation is grim. For 2017 and 2018, the Funds auditor issued a qualified opinion 
with respect to Master Funds income and assets, including, for 2018, a qualified opinion 
with respect to 89% of Master Funds NAV. By May 2019, Master Fund had only 5% of its 
assets in cash, with most of the balance of the assets consisting of amounts owed to Master 
Fund on loans to thinly capitalized borrowers, a substantial amount of which are in default. 
On January 21, 2020, the Feeder Funds notified their investors that the Feeder Funds had 
suspended redemptions and would begin to wind-up their affairs.
TCAMaster issued a suspension notice to investors on 21 January 2020, which included the 
following 
Upon recommendation by TCA Fund Management Group Corp. (the Investment 
Manager), the board of directors of TCA Global Credit Fund, Ltd. (the Fund) has 
determined that it is in the best interests of the Fund to begin an orderly winding down of the 
affairs of the Fund and in connection therewith has approved the suspension of 
subscriptions, redemptions, the payment of redemption proceeds and the calculation of the 
net asset value of the Fund with immediate effect.
The Investment Manager has advised the board of directors that the Fund and TCA Global 
Credit Fund, LP (together with the Fund and TCA Global Credit Master Fund, LP, the 
Funds) have received redemption and withdrawal requests in excess of the Funds 
available cash. In light of these redemption requests and the increasing illiquid nature of the 
Funds due to obtaining ownership through restructuring of a significant portion of assets of 
the Funds, US tax provisions causing unforeseen significant expenses, IFRS accounting 
changes causing increased operational complexity as well as issues relating to accounting 
and revenue recognition policies that have been raised in connection with an ongoing SEC 
investigation of the Investment Manager, the Investment Manager has determined that the 
continued operation of the Funds is no longer commercially viable.
Mr Cs complaint submissions
 
His main claims about the investments were/are that LCL was negligent and failed to act in 
his best interests; that it failed to conduct proper due diligence on the investments, so it 
therefore failed to provide him with material information about them (that it could have 
obtained had there been proper due diligence) before he committed to them; that it failed to 
properly monitor and review his investments (so it either failed to make itself aware of the 
problems summarised above or it was aware of those problems and failed to share that with 
him); and that it received (and in some cases concealed) commission revenue from his 
investments which meant its recommendations to him were conflicted.On 25 August 2020 Mr C confirmed to us that a referral of his conflict of interest allegation 
had been passed to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr C summarized nine key points that he considers to be the basis for his entitlement to 
compensation  LCLs conflict of interest and concealed commissions from his investments 
(20% of the management fee the TCA fund charged him and a 20% performance fee based 
on inflated profits); LCLs due diligence failure; the mismatch between the TCA investments 
and his medium/high ATR; LCLs failure to produce suitability letters (that had his signed 
agreement) for the investments  the November 2015 investment had a suitability letter, but 
it was presented and signed in January 2016, subsequent to the investment and as part of a 
SIPP transfer at the time; doubt over whether LCL had requisite knowledge and capabilities 
to recommend and/or manage such a complex investment like the TCA fund; LCLs failure to 
keep him informed about the funds problems; documentary evidence of agreed ongoing 
servicing from LCL; unsuitability of the 2019 top-up given the change in his circumstances in 
2018 and given that others were redeeming their investments at the time; and the MDs 
concession in 2020 that his investments were too high risk and too illiquid for his 
circumstances.
LCLs responses
LCLs final response letter (FRL) of 1 June 2020, issued in response to Mr Cs complaint 
and queries in May 2020, mainly did as follows:
 It summarized the complaint as being about Mr Cs allegation that LCL had not acted 
in his best interest, had not protected his investments, had misrepresented the 
investments to him and had been negligent; and being about his unhappiness with 
the redemption of his investments and with LCLs termination of its service to him.
 It said Mr Cs investor profile at the outset  in 2013, when he was unhappy with a 
...................................................................... advised and managed by ........... and 
when he wanted to move the bond elsewhere (to LCL)  was that he had a 
speculative ATR for the bonds investments, he was a High Net Worth (HNW) and 
sophisticated investor, he had a net worth (jointly with his wife) of around .............., 
he had individual annual earnings of ................ plus an expected annual bonus of 
around ............... and he had extensive investment experience.
 It said the last review questionnaire done in 2019 shows Mr Cs net worth had 
increased by that time to ......................, he had cash holdings of ..............., he had 
stock investments of ................., he was not in employment but he remained an 
HNW sophisticated investor.
 In response to Mr Cs allegations, it mainly said investment and liquidity risks were 
explained to him verbally, in all suitability letters issued to him and in the terms of 
business; he signed multiple declarations for his HNW sophisticated investor profile, 
for servicing reviews and for warning notices over the course of his investments; all  
suitability letters provided accurate information about the investments and their risks, 
so its advice was never negligent and there had been no change in the TCA funds 
strategy since he first invested; the recommendations matched his overall investor 
profile; its due diligence on the fund started after its 2012 introduction to the funds 
senior team and continued thereafter (and on an ongoing basis) with significant high 
level interactions with the fund annually from 2013 to 2019; it first became aware of 
the liquidity and suspension problems on 22 January 2020; contrary to Mr Cs claim 
that the fund had mass redemptions, the funds 2019 factsheet showed Asset Under 
Management (AUM) increasing not decreasing; his last investment in 2019 was not predetermined, it happened because of the advised need for him to diversify away 
from a particular investment in the bond and in order to rebalance his holdings; the 
recommendation was done in his full knowledge that returns were likely to be lower 
than they were when he first invested (and this made clear in an email to him on 4 
May 2016 which forwarded to him a copy of TCA UKs email of 25.11.15 about the 
funds performance); the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) relates to retail products 
and the fund was not a retail product, but it nevertheless gave Mr C full disclosure of 
all commission it earned from his investments in the bond (including the TCA fund); it 
also disclosed its conflicts of interests; it terminated its service with immediate effect 
on 1 May 2020 as it was entitled to do under the terms of business and because Mr 
C pursued a campaign of harassment against LCL (including its MD and staff); and it 
never received the funds letter to investors of July 2019 that Mr C has referred to.
 the advice Mr C received for the bond was always given in the context of his overall 
portfolio, and not in isolation as the investigator considered. Suitability was assessed in the 
same context. Mr C was aware of this and agreed with the approach. This is evident in his 
signing of the initial suitability letter sent to him in April 2013 which included the following 
The Montello and Prestige Investments fall into the category of speculative risk, the highest 
risk category there is. As these investments form a smaller proportion of your overall 
portfolio, when blended with other investments you hold (e.g. your large cash holding), your 
overall attitude to risk is still balanced to speculative, We have discussed this matter and you 
have confirmed that you are prepared to adopt a much higher level of risk with this section of 
your portfolio ...............................
In addition, every ATR questionnaire Mr C signed included the following question 
Do you wish to take significantly different view of risk for any particular investment or part of 
your portfolio that you may be considering at this review?, in response to which he always 
confirmed Yes and always confirmed he wished to take a high risk approach with a part of 
his overall portfolio  that part being the bond.
Our Investigation
One of our adjudicators initially had conduct of the complaint, before it was reassigned to 
one of our investigators. The investigator issued, in 2021, an initial view on 23 September 
and then issued additional views on the complaint  particularly those of 20 October and 8 
November. Overall, she concluded that the complaint should be upheld. In the main, she 
said:
 The complaint should be approached in the context of the suitability (or otherwise) of 
the CL/L&G bond as a whole and not the TCA fund investments in isolation.
 Documentation of LCLs advice to Mr C appears to be credible and is not in dispute. 
Based on that documentation, and at the time of initial contact between both sides in 
2013, Mr C and his wife sought to restructure the pre-existing bond (with the 
objectives of tax efficiency and medium/long term growth). LCL then recommended
that the bond should be assigned to Mr Cs sole name, given that he was a self- 
certified sophisticated investor for whom high risk investments could be considered.
 Crucially, it was also recorded that [Mr Cs] attitude to investment risk was medium- 
high, however, hed accepted that he would be willing to take a significantly different 
view of risk for any particular investment or part of the portfolio. In addition, he 
wished to invest a further ............... into the portfolio bond.  the risk profile questionnaire completed by [Mr C] in 2013, gave him an overall 
score of 20 for the purpose of determining his attitude to investment risk (ATR). And 
crucially, the ATR score placed [Mr C] at the cusp of medium to high risk, as opposed 
to medium risk, which had a cut off score of 19.
 Mr C accepted LCLs 2014 recommendation to invest as follows  ................. in the 
Montello Income Fund, ............... in the Arc Time Freehold Income Authorised Fund,
............... in the Prestige Alternative Finance Fund and ................. in the Falco Real 
Estate Fund. Thereafter the TCA fund was recommended and invested into [over the 
four stages set out above]. By 2020 the TCA fund was suspended.
 LCL has highlighted that the other four funds performed as follows 
.................
 Nevertheless, the problem Mr C faces with his isnvestments in the suspended TCA 
fund could have been avoided if the bond, as a whole, had not been heavily invested 
in high risk funds. Whilst he was correctly assessed as an HNW sophisticated 
investor and whilst he probably understood the high risks and speculative nature of 
the TCA fund (despite his assertion that this was not explained to him), he remained 
a retail client, so LCL equally remained duty bound to take care in recommending 
suitable investment products to him. His ATR was medium-high (or balanced to 
adventurous) and based on LCLs own admission, a client with such an ATR would 
want diversification, but there was no such diversification of risks in the bonds funds, 
as they were mainly high risk funds (three, including the TCA fund, were high risk 
UCIS funds and two were property funds which were not as risky as the UCIS funds 
but still carried substantial risks). This was unsuitable. Mr C was only prepared to 
take high risks with a portion of his bond, not with the entire bond. The bonds overall 
profile should have been medium-high, but it was not, instead it had a higher and 
high risk overall profile which was a mismatch for him and was unsuitable. Even if, as 
LCL argues, the bond was advised not in isolation but in the wider context of Mr Cs 
overall assets/wealth, its concentration of the three high-risk UCIS funds (resulting in 
an overall profile beyond medium-high) was still outside his ATR and was unsuitable.
 No award to Mr C should be made for a refund of fees because it is clear that he 
intended to invest the bond in any case, and he would have incurred fees in doing so. 
However, with regards to the disputed ongoing service (and associated fee 
arrangement), LCL should have made the position it presently states clear to Mr C at 
the relevant times, because there are facts in the case which suggest why he would 
have believed the fees he paid covered the ongoing bond reviews he received.
LCL did not agree with this outcome and it considered the findings unfair and, in some parts, 
inaccurate. It made a number of submissions in this respect between October and 
November 2021, including a request for an oral hearing in the case  especially because it 
considers that its position has not been fairly addressed and because it believes Mr C 
appears to have been given the opportunity to discuss the case verbally with the investigator 
and, if so, it has not been given the same opportunity.
With regards to my provisional findings/conclusions, the PD included the following: 
Summary
Overall and based on the documentation in this case, I consider that the complaint began as 
one about Mr Cs TCAMaster investments and remained so until the investigators view was 
issued. Mr C confirmed as much throughout and up to his email of 12 September 2021, around a fortnight before the investigators initial view. I am not persuaded that, prior to that 
view, he ever intended to complain about the bond as a whole (especially as, with the 
exception of the TCA fund, the other four funds in it were successfully redeemed with 
seemingly hefty gains). Mr C did complain about the MDs overall approach to advice during 
LCLs service to him, but that was/is not the same as a complaint about unsuitability of the 
bond (as a whole).
Overall, I consider that the complaint is still about, primarily, the TCAMaster investments, 
but suitability of the bond for Mr C is now also an issue that relates to the complaint and is 
an issue that will be addressed. In terms of the TCAMaster investments, the main matters to 
determine are whether (or not) they were suitable for Mr C, whether (or not) LCL was obliged 
to monitor and review their suitability over time and, if so, whether (or not) LCL failed in this 
obligation. The same main matters to determine apply to the bond.
On balance, based on available evidence and for the reasons addressed below, I 
provisionally conclude that Mr Cs complaint is not upheld; that neither the TCAMaster 
investments nor the bond as a whole were unsuitable for him; that whilst it was reasonable 
for him to expect LCL to monitor and review their suitability over the period of its service (up 
to disclosure of the suspension of TCAMaster) I am not persuaded that it did not reasonably 
do so; and that I am not persuaded they became unsuitable for him during the periods of 
investments up to the point of awareness about the suspension of TCAMaster.
Suitability of the Bond
A number of key elements should be considered in terms of the suitability (or otherwise) of a 
recommended investment;
 An investors profile at the time of the recommendation (mainly, his/her objective(s), 
attitude to risk (ATR), investment experience and affordability status (including 
capacity for loss)). [element 1]
 Whether (or not), on balance, the investors profile was properly determined between 
the investor and the adviser. [element 2]
 Whether (or not), on balance, the advisers recommendation was suitable for the 
investors profile [element 3]
 Whether (or not), on balance, the investor was informed about the nature of the 
recommended investment and its risks. [element 4]
It should also be noted that, depending on the relevant circumstances, there could be more 
than one suitable recommendation for an investor. The regulatory duty upon a firm to assess
and give suitable advice does not require that firm to give the most suitable advice, or to give 
advice that is considered to be more suitable than another. If, on balance, LCLs 
recommendation to Mr C to use the bond for high risk/speculative investments was suitable, 
the relevant regulations do not require me to consider whether (or not) it could have been 
better or more suitable.
I already addressed parts of elements 1 and 2 in the previous sub-section, and I will continue 
to do so in this sub-section, along with treatment of elements 3 and 4.
Mr Cs personal profile between 2013 and 2020 was well rehearsed by all sides during our 
investigation of his complaint and I have referred to key elements of that profile in the 
background summarised above.In a nutshell, and I repeat, he was an ............. sophisticated retail client with a significant 
background in investments [I understand his point that this background did not mean he was 
familiar with the types of funds LCL recommended, but I am satisfied that it meant he knew 
much more than many (or most) retail clients about the workings of investments]; he was a 
high earner (for most of the service period) and he appears to have had a joint net worth of 
between .................. and ................ throughout the service period [to illustrate this, the joint 
Personal Financial Planning Questionnaire (PFPQ) signed by him and his wife on 14 March 
2013 confirms a total joint net worth of around ............... alongside his personal total gross 
annual income of around ......................, and the sole PFPQ he signed on 11 March 2019 
confirms he was unemployed at the time but still held an estate worth ...................]; his 
portfolio of assets in 2013 consisted of around ................... in cash, around ................. in 
stocks/shares (including the bond) and the rest in the value of his jointly held home; by 2019 
the assets consisted of around ................ in cash, his jointly held home (valued at ..............), 
property investments valued at .................. and what was described as Capital Holdings of 
................ which appears to have included the cash and the increased value of the bond; 
and the initial 2013 suitability letter set out his agreed objective in the following terms 
................
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that elements 1 and 2 have been positively 
established in this case  in other words, I am satisfied that there are no wrongdoings by 
LCL with regards to these elements. The next consideration is element 3.
There does not appear to be any issue about the bond mismatching its objective and there 
does not appear to be any issue about it being beyond Mr Cs means or capacity for loss  
for the sake of clarity, the latter does not suggest that loss of .................. would have been 
inconsequential to him, instead it relates to him having the financial capacity to cope with 
such a loss should it have happened. I consider it beyond doubt and debate that Mr C had 
more than the level of previous investment experience required to understand the bond, the 
general nature of the type of funds to be considered for it and the high risk characteristics 
intended for it (and, as I will address under element 4 below, he received clear and explicit 
warnings about such risks). As I mentioned earlier, the main issue of suitability to address is 
therefore the alleged risk profile/ATR mismatch  including, or especially, the diversification 
of risks point that the parties and the investigator addressed.
During LCLs service to Mr C the bond accounted for initially around ....................  and 
then,as LCL said, due to growth this went up to around ................  out of his wider net 
wealth/portfolio of between ................. to .................. during the same period. Relevant 
documentation first refers to this as joint net wealth (in 2013), and then as Mr Cs sole net 
wealth (in 2019). In more specific terms, given that around ................... appears to have 
always represented the value of his home, the bond accounted for between ............. and
................., over time, out of an investable portfolio (or investable assets) of between 
................. and ................. (after excluding the value of his home).
In order to avoid a distorted view, it is important to note that value extracted from Mr Cs 
portfolio of assets for the bond was the sum of the initial bond investments (over time) that 
amounted to around ..............., and that the post-growth value of the bond (around ..............) 
appears to have roughly coincided with the increase in Mr Cs net wealth/his overall portfolio. 
I have not been precise in this respect and I do not consider it necessary to drill down into 
the specifics of each event of growth (or performance) in the bond in comparison with each 
event of growth (or performance) in his overall portfolio. I am satisfied that it is enough for 
the determination of this complaint to take the broad and simplified view that around the time 
his overall portfolio was worth around ............. the bond accounted for about ................. of 
that, and around the time his overall portfolio was worth around ................ the bond 
accounted for about ................. of that.In this context, Mr C initially had around 40% of his investable assets allocated to the bond 
(that is ................ out of ..................) and then he had around 27% of his investable assets 
allocated to the bond (that is .................. out of .................). I am persuaded by LCLs 
argument highlighting the constant presence of ................. (or more) in Mr Cs portfolio 
throughout. Aside from the risk of inflation, cash is widely regarded as a risk-free asset.
There is merit in LCLs point that, at the outset, the bond was sufficiently counter balanced 
by the risk free cash holding to produce no higher than an overall medium/high risk profile for 
the portfolio, which matched Mr Cs overall medium/high ATR. With around ............. 
dedicated to the bond and around ................. in cash, this is a credible argument, it is one 
that I am persuaded by and it is for this reason that I do not consider that the bond disrupted 
the overall medium/high risk profile of his portfolio at the outset of LCLs service.
At the other end of the service period, the bond (with approximately .................. value) sat 
next to around ................ in cash, next to property investments valued at around ............... 
and then next to the remainder assets of what was collectively described as Capital 
Holdings (which do not appear to be clear). Once again, the cash applied a risk-free effect. 
My consideration of the property investments  which appear to have been made 
independently  is that nothing higher than Mr Cs overall medium/high ATR can be applied 
to them. Otherwise, if he claims that all property investments would have been too risky for 
him, then these property investments that he appears to have undertaken himself would 
conflict with such a claim. I also consider that something similar applies to what I have 
described as the remainder assets. The implication, from Mr Cs overall ATR, upon those 
assets is that they too were or would have been held in something with no higher than a 
medium/high risk profile.
In the overall portfolio, as of around 2019, there was about ................. in a bond preserved 
for high-risk/speculative investments; around ................ in risk-free cash; around ................ 
in, at most, medium/high risk property investments; and a remainder of about ............... in, at 
most, medium/high risk remainder assets. As such, it can be concluded that the bond 
combined with the risk-free cash had a medium/high risk joint profile and that they sat next to 
the, at most, medium/high risk profiles for the property investments and for the remainder 
assets. In this context, I do not accept that the bond disrupted the medium/high risk profile of 
Mr Cs overall portfolio.
It is also worth briefly noting that the bonds investment in five different funds ensured a good 
degree of product/fund diversification, and the splits between different UCIS funds and 
somewhat different property funds also aided a degree of sector diversification within the 
bond.
Based on the provisional findings above, I conclude that the bond was not unsuitable for Mr 
C. I have reached the above findings mindful of his change of circumstances in 2018, which I 
have not found to be a material factor that changed his investor profile. It is not necessary for 
me to be drawn into the specifics of that change, as differently described by both parties, 
given that its resulting effect (Mr C being unemployed) is not disputed and was recorded in 
the 2019 PFPQ. As I said above, that PFPQ showed that this made no negative difference to 
his financial capacity and that, at the time, his net wealth had actually increased somewhat 
significantly from what it was in 2013. I also do not consider that the change made a 
meaningful difference to his investor profile. Documentation from the time does not suggest 
that it did.
My concluding consideration in this sub-section is element 4 (as I defined above). In a 
nutshell, I am significantly persuaded by the credibility and depth of documentary evidence of how extensive information about the overall pursuit in the bond was made available to Mr 
C, was understood by him, and was agreed by him. In other words, these facts have
been established by the seven Client Agreements/terms of business, six HNW declarations, 
six warning statements, seven Fact Finds/Servicing reviews incorporating ATR questions 
and responses and nine suitability letters all issued to him  many of which bear his 
signature as confirmation of his understanding and agreement. Additionally, there are the 
face to face meetings which extended the overall provision of information to him about the 
bond and its investments as they were being made. On the balance of such evidence, I am 
satisfied that he was informed about the nature of the recommended investments and their 
risks.
Suitability of the TCAMaster investments (2014 to 2019)
It stands to reason that if, as I have concluded above, dedication of the bond to high-risk 
investments was suitable for Mr C, then investing a part of the bond  and no more than 
20% of it at any time  in a high-risk fund was equally suitable. This is what happened with 
the TCAMaster investments. Over the five years of those investments they were high-risk 
investments made in a high-risk bond that was suitable for Mr C. As such, I do not find that 
the TCAMaster investments were unsuitable for him. As a basis for this conclusion, I echo 
and use the same/relevant findings I reached above in terms of suitability of the bond (from 
element 1 through to element 4) which, in the main, apply equally to the TCAMaster 
investments.
Due Diligence, Monitoring and Reviewing of the TCAMaster investments
I consider LCLs argument about the monitoring and review service to be partly redundant. 
The facts  which it does not appear to dispute  show that, whichever way it seeks to define 
its engagements with Mr C, it nevertheless communicated with him and met with him 
regularly to discuss and advise on existing and prospective investments in the bond 
(including TCAMaster) during its service to him.
His claim in this respect  if upheld and based on the specific allegation about LCL failing to 
properly monitor the TCAMaster investment  potentially gives rise to two forms of 
compensation  if it is found that the service fell short of what he was entitled to, there could 
be consideration of a refund of any fees he actually paid for the monitoring/reviewing of the 
investment; and/or if it is found that there were service shortcomings which led directly to his 
financial loss in the fund then compensation for that loss could also be considered.
If, as LCL says, Mr C did not pay for a monitoring and review service then that could be a 
defence against any pursuit for a refund of fees  as there would be no fees to refund; but 
this point makes no difference to a pursuit for financial loss compensation because the fact 
is that LCL did monitor and review Mr Cs TCAMaster investment  regardless of whether it 
was or was not paid for doing that  so it implicitly, at least, it undertook responsibility to do 
so in Mr Cs best interests and if there was a failure to do this which arguably resulted in his 
loss a claim for compensation can reasonably be considered. Hence my view that LCLs 
argument about the basis of the service is partly redundant.
In any case and on the balance of available evidence, I do not find that LCL failed to properly 
monitor the TCAMaster investment and I do not find that it failed to uphold Mr Cs best 
interests in this respect  so neither of the two forms of compensation mentioned above is 
relevant.
The allegations and claims by the SEC against the TCA Group are as I set out early in this 
decision. They were the results of the SECs investigations into the group. Early in this 
decision, I summarised some of this information and quoted details of others in order to illustrate as much as would be helpful to show about the nature of what the TCA Group is 
alleged to have done. The suspension of TCAMaster in January 2020 was correlated with 
the SECs investigations, because the suspension notice said so, and it was also a result of 
a run of redemption requests from investors around the time that the fund could not cope 
with, especially as it faced illiquidity problems  the notice says this too.
Based on the SECs submissions, the problems with or around the TCA fund began from 
2010 and continued up to 2019. Helpfully, Mr C has been specific in his complaint by saying 
he holds LCL responsible for a failure of due diligence on the funds problems and a failure 
to monitor and/or to report to him on the funds problems between 2017 and 2019. For this 
reason, this  2017 to 2019  is the period I will focus on. Furthermore, it is clear from what 
the SEC has described that the alleged misconducts within the TCA Group are of an internal 
nature and there is no evidence, and no allegation, that LCL was complicit in the groups 
internal workings so it stands to reason that it would not have known about what was going 
on internally within the group.
Mr C knew from the outset of the TCAMaster investments, and at each subsequent point of 
investment in the fund, that it was a high risk fund (inclusive of high liquidity risks). I 
appreciate that he either disputes or does not quite concede receiving three suitability letters 
for three of the four investments (that is, the first two and the fourth), but I consider it more 
likely(than not) that he did  however, I accept that they were not signed because no signed 
copies have been presented by LCL. He received and signed suitability letters for other 
investments in the bond, so he would have expected the same for the TCAMaster 
investment. Furthermore, he accepts that he received and signed the suitability letter for the 
third TCA fund investment after it was made. It is reasonable to expect that he would have 
questioned the non-receipt of such letters for the first two and the fourth if they were not 
received, but there does not appear to be evidence that he did; and, at the very least, the 
suitability letter he signed said the following about risks in the TCA fund 
...............
Broadly the same notice was given across the other letters.
In this context, Mr C chose to invest in an illiquid fund, so the notion that he would have done 
something differently if told the fund was facing illiquidity problems has no basis  because 
he knew that as he invested in it. The other aspect of monitoring/review failure he alleges 
relates to the alleged accounting misconducts within the TCA Group. I have considered
Mr Cs individual arguments on this aspect and LCLs individual responses to them but, 
ultimately, his dissatisfaction is about his belief that, at least between 2017 and 2019, LCL 
should have had an early insight into the potential for the accounting misconducts that have 
been alleged and that it should have shared that insight with him.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that LCL had such insight or that it ought 
reasonably to have had such insight. The first consideration must be what LCL was obliged 
to deliver in the monitoring and review service. It had three levels of this service, which it 
called its Retainer Options, and the highest service level (the Platinum Service) provided 
the following:
....................
As I said above, the alleged accounting misconducts within the TCA Group are of an internal 
nature and there is no evidence, and no allegation, that LCL was complicit in the groups 
internal workings. The alleged misconducts relate to inflation and/or distortion of fund values 
and performance through accounting methods. Perusal of media reports about the 
allegations show that those reports were mainly in 2020, as events unfolded that year. It took a high-level regulatory investigation to unearth grounds to make allegations against the 
group about distorted IB and loan fees (and inflated performance), and the matter (and 
allegations) appear yet to be concluded.
On balance, I am not persuaded that even the highest level of LCLs monitoring and review 
service  as defined in the text pasted above  would have made it responsible for gaining 
insight into potential for the alleged accounting misconducts in the group earlier (between 
2017 and 2019) than when (in 2020) the relevant regulator decided that it had enough to 
pursue its allegations against the group, or earlier than the wider sector appears to have had 
such insight. I am not satisfied that evidence establishes that the earlier redemption runs
Mr C has argued about were as he has presented  especially as he appears to have been 
informed about this through hearsay  and/or, if they were as he describes, were connected 
with an earlier suspicion about alleged accounting misconducts in the group.
LCL has made repeated references to the email from TCA UK that it forwarded to Mr C on 4 
May 2016. In that email, TCA said 
See below on TCA. We pulled them up back end of last year on the overall picture the 
below is what was stated. Its also fair to say the [sic] that they are unlikely to get 2013 type 
returns as the margins are tighter for funds like these due to more market entrants and in 
some cases banks coming back in to the fold. If you look at the attached sheet it shows YTD 
($) performance which is on target for circa 9% this yr (assuming they repeat Q1 going 
forward)
The TCA UK communication (dated 25 November 2015) that was forwarded to him within 
the email included the following 
Some accounting treatments and policies have changed between 2014 - 2015 and TCAs 
team was unaware of how these might impact both the timing of completion of the audit and 
the results. TCA has also hired an audit consultant, who is a former big 4 partner to assist 
us in the process and also examining all the internal accounting systems to ensure we get 
the job done more quickly and more efficiently in 2015. The 2014 audit, was unqualified, but 
had a qualifying footnote relating to once such difference in IAS/GAAP/IFRS relating to a few 
percent of the funds balance sheet. While economically not material, it nonetheless showed 
processes that needed to be addressed.
Without insight into the types of accounting misconducts the SEC has alleged, LCL would 
reasonably have taken this information as it was presented  and it appears that Mr C, who 
received a forwarded copy of it  did the same. The information highlighted accounting 
issues, but nothing, on the face of it, indicative of the fraudulent accounting the SEC claims 
and nothing that should reasonably have prompted suspicion by LCL of such accounting.
If this information would have been a red flag to an accountant, LCL was not Mr Cs 
accountant; and if he says LCL should have probed and investigated further, I do not 
consider that it would have been obliged to do that under the highest monitoring and review 
service it offered (as defined above), so I do not consider it was obliged to do so for him. As I 
quoted earlier the SECs 2020 update on TCA was that its situation was grim at the time 
and that before that  For 2017 and 2018, the Funds auditor issued a qualified opinion with 
respect to Master Funds income and assets, including, for 2018, a qualified opinion with 
respect to 89% of Master Funds NAV. By May 2019, Master Fund had only 5% of its assets 
in cash, with most of the balance of the assets consisting of amounts owed to Master Fund 
on loans to thinly capitalized borrowers, a substantial amount of which are in default. Mr C 
says LCL should have known about, or had an indication of, these specific matters at the 
time. However, the same applies here too. I am not persuaded that its monitoring and reviewing service extended to knowing about, or discovering indications about, these 
specific matters.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons, I am not persuaded that LCL failed in its 
monitoring and reviewing of Mr Cs TCAMaster investments by not foreseeing the funds 
problems/allegations associated with it that came to light in 2020 and led to its suspension. 
On the same basis, I also do not consider that it failed in its due diligence on the fund. That 
due diligence was an ongoing activity, given that four investments in the fund happened over 
the course of five years, so it appears to have been coupled with the ongoing monitoring and 
reviewing that took place.
Both parties made supplementary comments about each other (and about the case) during 
this complaint. LCL also asked for a hearing in response to the investigators view. With 
regards to these, the PD said:
The parties supplementary comments
I have summarised, in the background above, the different supplementary comments both 
sides have made to us, including each sides supplementary comments against the other 
and about the others conduct. I have done so, sufficiently, to show that they have been 
noted. I can also assure both parties that they have been considered. However, I do not find 
it necessary to draw individual conclusions on them because the complaints key issues 
have been my focus. Where relevant, I have been mindful of particular comments when 
considering the key issues, but it is the matter of determining the key issues that is my task. 
If Mr C has regulatory concerns about LCL, arising from his supplementary comments, he 
can consider raising them with the regulator (as he appears to have already done for some 
of his concerns). Equally, if LCL has concerns about the conduct it alleges against Mr C it 
can consider taking independent advice on those concerns.
LCLs Hearing Request
It should be reasonably evident from the contents of this decision  that is, from the way in 
which I have set out, throughout this decision, the core elements of Mr Cs complaint, 
relevant evidence in the case, details about the TCA fund and about his bond (and the 
bonds investments), his key submissions (and rebuttals), LCLs key submissions (and 
rebuttals), the investigators findings and then my findings  that I have taken a reasonably 
thorough approach to the complaint and that I have been greatly assisted by documentary 
input from Mr C, from LCL and from the investigator  all of which I have understood  in 
order to reach my provisional decision.
It would not be practicable to feature all that has been said by the parties in this decision, 
and I have not done so, but, on balance, I consider that I have understood and captured the 
key contents of the overall case. In these circumstances, and given that I do not anticipate 
that a hearing will add any meaningful value to the information on, and understanding of, the 
case that I already have, I am not persuaded that a hearing will be necessary and I do not 
grant LCLs request for it. Another point to note is that this provisional decision gives both 
parties the opportunity to comment even further on the case (and on my provisional findings) 
before a final decision is reached, and if either party considers that there are factual gaps 
and/or errors in my findings the same opportunity can be used to raise corrections. This 
serves as another reason why a hearing is not presently warranted.
LCL accepted the PD, but Mr C did not. He made the following main submissions:
 He should be due some compensation in the case, so it is important that I reconsider 
my findings; he is facing significant and detrimental losses caused by LCL that it must be held responsible for; legitimate complaints could have been pursued about 
unsuitability of the other contents of the bond but he focused on the TCA fund 
because his losses were incurred in this fund and it is this fund that was fraudulent; in 
any case he presented enough evidence to show that, overall, LCL had not treated 
him fairly; he also has evidence of an email from LCL after the 2020 TCA suspension 
in which it admitted that his investments were unsuitable; his profile was no different 
at the time to what it was for the 2019 TCA top-up investment so that top-up should 
never have been recommended. [A]
 LCLs arguments seek to exploit his HNW status, but that status does not justify its 
negligent service to him; it never advised him on anything other than the bond and he 
agreed to pursue higher risk investments for only part of the bond (not for the entire 
bond); the 2013 suitability letter that has been mentioned was devoid of any TCA 
investment recommendation and its purpose was to recommend his initial 
investments in the bond. [B]
 His net worth is irrelevant to the merits of his complaint. He was/is entitled to fair 
treatment regardless of his net worth. [C]
 The bonds value did not grow from ............... to .............. as LCL has described, the 
increase also related to a further investment of ................ he made, and the values of 
his assets outside the bond have not been accurately stated. Outside [his] main 
residence and property of [his] wife, the Capital holdings in the questionnaires 
referred to this Investment bond portfolio which lanner managed and then the vast 
majority of the rest referred to unvested Stocks from [his] deferred employer 
compensation. If Lanner really thought they were deciding based on [his] total 
investable assets then having the whole bond in speculative risk made even less 
sense as the unvested stock was  considered very high risk. So this argument 
really is not valid at all from any point of view. [D]
 LCLs responsibility for ongoing advice is an important aspect of the complaint and 
he has presented evidence to establish this responsibility. [E]
 The PD says I could not find evidence that LCL failed to monitor the TCA 
investments, but did I find evidence that LCL did monitor the investments? The funds 
suspension resulted from a whistle-blower approaching the SEC. He has submitted 
information about the SEC action and the civil class action (which is likely to proceed 
after conclusion of the SEC action). The PD refers to the SEC action but the 
information he shared about the class action includes very useful details  such as 
details about the tainted background of the main director of the TCA fund (and of its 
other directors) and the negative history of previous funds he was involved with prior 
to TCA (featuring allegations of fraud in those fund), insight into which LCL should 
have had in its due diligence but failed to have; and details which contrast with the 
positive descriptions of the fund and its directors that LCL presented in its suitability 
letters. [F]
 It is suspicious that the only bond investments for which suitability letters were not 
issued were the TCA investments and this is likely because LCL sought to conceal 
the high and unusual fees it was getting from TCA. The PD also appears to be silent 
on the matter of the fees LCL earned from the TCA investments (that is, 20% of the 
management fee and 20% of the performance fee). There are suggestions of 
complicity and of a Ponzi scheme arising from LCLs fee arrangement with the TCA 
fund and from its conflicted recommendation of the fund to him. [G] His awareness of the TCA fund being potentially illiquid is not the same as being 
made aware that the fund was potentially fraudulent. It is implausible that LCL did not 
have opportunity for insight into the potential for fraud given the contents of the funds 
2019 letter to investors (which LCL received) that referred to qualified audit opinions 
on the funds account. How can I be satisfied that LCL did the monitoring that it was 
supposed to do? [H]
LCL was given the opportunity to comment on Mr Cs submissions and in the main it said it 
considered his submissions to be  incorrect, unfounded and misleading statements and 
accusations, the majority of which [it has] answered before or have been covered in [the] 
provisional decision.
The complaint was then returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Summary
I have reviewed Mr Cs complaint and I have paid attention to his submissions in response to 
the PD. Having done so, I have not been persuaded to change the findings and conclusions 
I reached in the PD. I retain those findings and conclusions and I incorporate them into this 
decision. They remain the basis on which I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Cs Submissions
I used the letters A to H above to identify each summary of Mr Cs key submissions and I 
will use the same sequence of letters below to address those submissions.
A
I empathise with Mr Cs significant financial loss in the TCA fund. Nothing in the PD sought 
to be dismissive of his loss and nothing in the present decision will do that. For what it is 
worth, I have noted statements by LCL which display what I consider to be similar empathy 
about Mr Cs loss. However, as is clear to both parties, the task before me is to determine 
whether (or not) LCL is responsible for that. Therefore, existence of the loss alone does not 
determine the complaint. Even if I accept that he should be compensated in some way for it, 
as he feels strongly that he should and given the alleged fraud that appears to have led to 
his loss, that does not automatically mean LCL is the party liable for any such compensation.
The PD already addressed suitability of the bond as a whole and suitability of the TCA 
investment. Neither was found to be unsuitable, I retain this conclusion (for the detailed 
reasons given in the PD) and I do not consider that Mr C has said anything summarised in 
A, or elsewhere, that defeats this conclusion (or those reasons). With regards to the email 
evidence he has referred to, the fact is that LCL has disputed and continues to dispute his 
complaint regardless of whatever it said previously. This means there remains a dispute 
about suitability to resolve, hence my treatment of the dispute and my findings.
B
I apply a similar approach to the points summarised in B  that is, I do not consider that the 
points defeat the PDs conclusions. I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling about the case 
and about his disagreement with the PD, but other than expressing that disagreement, his submissions appear to mainly restate the same position he expressed (to LCL and to this 
service) prior to the PD. This can be said about his points on his investor profile and the 
context, in terms of approach to risks, in which the bond (and its contents) was 
recommended. I addressed this in the PD and referred to reliable documentary evidence to 
support the PDs findings on these matters  findings which were clearly set out (as quoted 
in the background above). I acknowledge that Mr C disagrees with those findings. However, 
on balance, I remain satisfied with their credibility in the absence of evidence that shows 
otherwise.
C
Mr C is correct in saying he was entitled to fair treatment regardless of his net worth. I agree. 
However, I disagree with his assertion that his net worth was/is irrelevant to the case. It is 
relevant because, as the PD explained, the advice he was given happened in the context of 
his overall portfolio of assets. In the submissions summarised in B Mr C said LCL never 
advised on his overall portfolio. The PD did not say or suggest that it did, but LCL advised 
him on the bond in the context of his overall portfolio and this was clearly stated in the 2013 
letter that he received, signed, and agreed. The relevant contents are as I referred to in the 
PD and they make it reasonably clear that the mutual agreement was to use the bond as the 
wholly high risk part of his wider/overall portfolio. His overall net worth and wider assets are 
therefore relevant to the case because it is accepted that he had an overall medium/high risk 
profile for his portfolio of assets, so the need arises to compare the bond to the rest of his 
portfolio in order to determine whether (or not) that was adversely affected by the bond. This 
was the analysis applied in the PD and the outcome was that the bond did not adversely 
affect the portfolios risk profile.
D
The PD referred to the performance of (and, with the exception of the TCA fund, gains in) 
the bonds funds on the basis of documentary evidence about that. The increase in value 
from around ................ to around ............... was mentioned on the same basis. The PDs 
references to the values of Mr Cs wider assets were expressly based on the 2013 and 2019 
PFPQs that he signed at the times. Overall and on balance, I remain satisfied with these 
findings.
In his statement about unvested stocks, which he says occupied the majority of the rest of 
the Capital Holdings, Mr C appears to argue that there were very high risk assets pre- 
existing in his portfolio and that their presence does more to show that the high risk bond 
was unsuitable (that is, it added further high risks to his overall portfolio and adversely 
displaced its medium/high risk profile) than it does otherwise. However, he has not 
established, with persuasive evidence, how or why the unvested stock in his case  was  
considered very high risk so, on balance, I do not consider that I can accept this assertion. 
Furthermore, any suggestion that his portfolio of assets was already potentially unbalanced 
in terms of having very high risk assets arguably conflicts with the claim about having a 
medium/high profile at the outset. As I said in the PD 
At the other end of the service period, the bond (with approximately ................. value) sat 
next to around .............. in cash, next to property investments valued at around ............... 
and then next to the remainder assets of what was collectively described as Capital 
Holdings (which do not appear to be clear). Once again, the cash applied a risk-free effect. 
My consideration of the property investments  which appear to have been made 
independently  is that nothing higher than Mr Cs overall medium/high ATR can be applied 
to them. Otherwise, if he claims that all property investments would have been too risky for 
him, then these property investments that he appears to have undertaken himself would 
conflict with such a claim. I also consider that something similar applies to what I have described as the remainder assets. The implication, from Mr Cs overall ATR, upon those 
assets is that they too were or would have been held in something with no higher than a 
medium/high risk profile.
E
I understand that Mr C has taken objection to LCLs dispute about responsibility for ongoing 
monitoring/advice. However, the PD already concluded that LCL had this responsibility, so 
that dispute has been addressed (in his favour) and it is a dispute that LCL has not 
continued to pursue in response to the PD. The PD also addressed whether (or not) LCL 
failed to properly discharge the responsibility and it concluded that it had not.
F
Mr Cs complaint about LCLs ongoing monitoring/advice service is very specific to the 
events associated with the TCA investments and TCAMaster. It is not a generic claim about 
the service. The basis on which I approached this matter in the PD was clearly set out in it. I 
quote and repeat 
The other aspect of monitoring/review failure he alleges relates to the alleged accounting 
misconducts within the TCA Group. I have considered Mr Cs individual arguments on this 
aspect and LCLs individual responses to them but, ultimately, his dissatisfaction is about his 
belief that, at least between 2017 and 2019, LCL should have had an early insight into the 
potential for the accounting misconducts that have been alleged and that it should have 
shared that insight with him.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that LCL had such insight or that it ought 
reasonably to have had such insight. The first consideration must be what LCL was obliged 
to deliver in the monitoring and review service. It had three levels of this service, which it 
called its Retainer Options, and the highest service level (the Platinum Service) provided 
the following:
..........................
On balance, I am not persuaded that even the highest level of LCLs monitoring and review 
service  as defined in the text pasted above  would have made it responsible for gaining 
insight into potential for the alleged accounting misconducts in the group earlier (between 
2017 and 2019) than when (in 2020) the relevant regulator decided that it had enough to 
pursue its allegations against the group, or earlier than the wider sector appears to have had 
such insight. I am not satisfied that evidence establishes that the earlier redemption runs
Mr C has argued about were as he has presented  especially as he appears to have been 
informed about this through hearsay  and/or, if they were as he describes, were connected 
with an earlier suspicion about alleged accounting misconducts in the group.
I retain the above findings. I accept that as part of the Advice and ongoing review of existing 
policies  aspect of the service a reasonable degree of insight into the bonds existing 
investments would have been expected. However, the SECs descriptions of the allegations 
against the TCA fund show that it would probably have taken something like disclosures of 
confidential information by an insider in order to gain any meaningful insight into the things 
emerged and were alleged about the fund in 2020. Indeed, Mr C has referred to the SECs 
case being prompted by something similar to this  that is, disclosures from a whistle-blower.
I have not seen evidence that LCL was an insider in any way in the TCA fund or that this 
could be said of any of LCLs officials. If this is  or something like this  is what Mr C is 
suggesting, there is no basis for it, so there is no basis to expect LCL to know of any inside information about the fund that emerged in 2020. I acknowledge Mr Cs reference to the TCA 
fund notice to investors of July 2019 and his argument about insight that ought to have given 
LCL. I address this under H below.
Mr C is correct to observe that the PD featured information from the SECs action and not 
from the civil class action. Both pursued claims and allegations against the TCA Group and 
some of its officials. As such, it is arguably irresponsible to treat them as being, presently, 
anything more than claims and allegations. However, claims and allegations from a financial 
industry regulator like the SEC carries notable weight and the same [weight] cannot be said 
about those in the civil class action. It is for this reason that, on balance, I considered it 
reasonable to reflect the former in the PD. I also do not consider it necessary to be drawn 
into the allegations that have been made, personally, against the officials of the TCA Group 
as there appears to be no evidence that LCL was in any way complicit with those individuals 
and I am not persuaded that it was obliged to investigate, to such an extent, into the pasts of 
those individuals.
G
The PD addressed the matter of the suitability letters sent to Mr C. I retain the findings 
reached in that respect and for that reason I do not share the suspicion he has referred to. I 
also do not share his suspicion about a connection between fees earned by LCL and its 
recommendation of the TCA fund  as I said in the PD, its recommendation of the TCA fund 
was consistent with the suitable high risk bond in which it sat and the fund was not 
unsuitable for Mr C. There does not appear to be an isolated dispute about fees or about a 
pursuit for a refund of fees, so such a matter has not been addressed. As I said above, there 
appears to be no evidence of complicity between LCL and the TCA fund.
H
Neither Mr C nor LCL knew, or ought to have known, of any particular reason why the TCA 
fund could be at risk of potential fraud. I have not seen evidence to say or to suggest 
otherwise. The PD addressed and made findings about the funds November 2015 
communication that was shared with Mr C in May 2016. I retain those findings. Mr C has 
highlighted the funds July 2019 communication to investors and, in particular, the audit 
opinion qualifications within it. He essentially says they indicated the potential for the 
problems that unfolded in the following year and that LCLs due diligence and monitoring 
should have identified this at the time.
As I said in the PD 
 the alleged accounting misconducts within the TCA Group are of an internal nature and 
there is no evidence, and no allegation, that LCL was complicit in the groups internal 
workings. The alleged misconducts relate to inflation and/or distortion of fund values and 
performance through accounting methods. Perusal of media reports about the allegations 
show that those reports were mainly in 2020, as events unfolded that year. It took a high- 
level regulatory investigation to unearth grounds to make allegations against the group about 
distorted IB and loan fees (and inflated performance), and the matter (and allegations) 
appear yet to be concluded.
The July 2019 communication referred to audit opinion technical qualifications with regards 
to the TCA funds Special Purpose Vehicles fair value measurement, with regards to its IB 
fee income and with regards to its portfolio loans; it also referred to audit opinions about 
treatment of its Promissory Notes in the audit and about treating its Litigation percentage as 
a qualified item instead of a highlighted item. However, it must be noted that none of these 
were presented as troubling concerns or as indicators of deeper problems. The communication summarised what can reasonably be viewed as seemingly rational 
explanations for them alongside references to corrective work in hand (or corrections that 
had been achieved) to address the relevant issues. It could be said that such a presentation 
was to be expected from a fund that was a going concern at the time and that appears to 
have seen itself (and presented itself) as competently engaged in addressing ongoing quasi 
routine issues  at least, this is a reasonable inference that can be drawn from the contents 
of the communication. On balance, I consider that this stands in contrast to the serious and 
detailed allegations that emerged in 2020 and I am not persuaded that the 2019 
communication could reasonably have been used to foresee what unfolded in 2020. I also 
consider it possible that Mr Cs view on this point has benefitted from hindsight that no-one 
had in 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in the PD, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman