DRN-1367010
The complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Ms B was sold an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint for the following reasons. 
The sale was a long time ago, so it's understandable that there are limited documents 
available from that time. Bank of Scotland's records show that Ms B answered questions to 
confirm her eligibility for the MPPI. So I think the policy was discussed with her. Overall, 
having thought about what Ms B has said, and the available evidnece, I don't think I can 
reasonably conclude that Bank of Scotland didn't make Ms B aware that she had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, or that she didn't choose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Ms B, and it seems to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She had sick pay for between 
three and six months if she was off sick. But she had no other reliable way to make her 
repayments, such as easily accessible savings. 
Its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Ms B would still have bought it.  
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ms 
B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So I don't think they would've 
mattered to her. 
Ive taken into account Ms Bs comments, including what shes said about not needing the 
PPI, and that her family wouldve helped out if she couldnt keep up with repayments. But 
these points dont change my conclusion. I don't think that family help is guaranteed, as it 
would depend on their circumstances at the time, which can change. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman