DRN-3284472
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted access to his account, closed it
without notice and withheld his funds.
What happened
Mr K had a bank account with Barclays.
On the 23 November 2019 Barclays restricted Mr Ks access to his account. The bank
expected to complete the review within 10 working days  and notified Mr K of this 
however the review wasnt completed until the 9 December 2019. On the 13 December 2019
the bank wrote out to Mr K and informed him theyd be closing his account with immediate
notice  but they didnt close his account until the 17 December 2019.
Barclays asked Mr K to provide proof of entitlement for some of the funds in his account.
Mr K provided some evidence however Barclays informed him this wasnt sufficient. And as
a result they held on to his funds for 90 days, as theyre allowed to, in case of any claims on
the funds.
Unfortunately all of Mr Ks funds werent made available to Mr K on the 3 March 2020 
Barclays made an error and failed to release just over £400.
Mr K complained to Barclays about their restriction of his account, poor customer service
and withholding of his funds. Barclays looked into Mr Ks complaint and partially upheld it 
they thought theyd acted fairly in restricting his funds, however the bank thought they could
have given Mr K more guidance about what he needed to provide to give proof of entitlement
and theyd not completed their review within 10 working days. So they offered Mr K £275
compensation. Mr K didnt accept, and made a further complaint to say they hadnt released
all his funds  on reviewing Mr Ks complaint Barclays agreed, they transferred the
remaining funds out and paid him £200 in compensation for the additional failings.
Mr K didnt accept Barclays response  and said he had to visit the branch on several
occasions to collect his funds, and hed not committed fraud so theyd acted unfairly.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint, and thought that Barclays needed to
do more. They thought the bank had acted fairly in restricting access to his account, closing
it with immediate notice and withholding some of his funds. But they thought Barclays should
have asked for further proof of entitlement for the other funds withheld  and shouldnt have
held on to them for 90 days. Overall, our investigator thought that Mr K should be
compensated a further £100.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation but Mr K didnt.
In response he said:
Theres no indication of fraud
Hed like £1,000 compensation and his account reopened
As Mr K didnt accept our investigators view the case was passed to me for a decision. On 
picking up Mr Ks decision, I reviewed his case and came to a slightly different decision to 
our investigator. 
I concluded that Barclays acted unfairly in closing Mr Ks basic bank account and 
recommended they compensate Mr K an additional £275 plus 8% for withholding his funds.
Barclays accepted. But Mr K didnt. In summary he said:
He doesnt think its fair Barclays wont reopen his account  its the most convenient 
for him and he needs an account for three years to obtain credit
Hed like more compensation
As Mr K didnt agree with my recommendation, Ive reconsidered my conclusions below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account restriction:
Although I appreciate that Mr K is unhappy that restrictions were placed on his account
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply
with various laws and regulations. Mr K agreed to this term as a customer and its a
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with their legal and regulatory
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed
Mr Ks account. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it initially blocked Mr Ks
account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Barclays have however accepted that they took longer than theyd expect to review Mr Ks
account  over 10 working days. And theyve offered compensation for this.
Account closure:
A bank is entitled to close a customers account, however it must do so in a way which
complies with the terms and conditions of their account. Mr K had a basic bank account with
Barclays  and the bank is only entitled to close a basic bank account for specific reasons.
One of the reasons is that Mr K has a bank account elsewhere. Mr Ks representative
confirmed that he didnt have another bank account at the time his account with Barclays
was closed  and Im satisfied this is likely to be the case. Based on Barclays explanation
for closing Mr Ks account Im not satisfied theyve met the terms and conditions when
closing his basic account.
Ive considered the impact of the closure on Mr K  and I think it did cause him significant
inconvenience  in particular Mr K was required to visit his local branch on numerous
occasions to collect his benefits. Because of the immediate closure of his account Mr K was
also prevented from having sufficient time to find a new account.
Ive thought about Mr Ks request to re-open his account  and I understand why hed like
Barclays to do this. However, although I do agree that the bank did act unfairly in closing his
basic bank account, a customer is only entitled to a basic bank account if they dont have
another bank account elsewhere in the UK. And Mr Ks representative has advised me henow has two other bank accounts. 
Withholding of funds:
On the 23 November 2019 Barclays restricted Mr Ks access to his account  and they
requested proof of entitlement for the funds received. Mr K provided some proof of
entitlement however Barclays didnt regard this as sufficient. Ive reviewed the proof of
entitlement that Mr K provided, and Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly in advising him this
wasnt enough. Ive moved on to consider the banks actions following this  and I think they
could have done more here. Barclays informed Mr K that because the proof of entitlement
hed provided wasnt enough theyd hold on to his funds for 90 days  until the
3 March 2020. But, I cant see any justification for Barclays taking this approach. I accept
that Barclays were concerned about Mr Ks entitlement to the funds  however I think the
bank should have advised Mr K that he could provide more proof of his entitlement to the
funds, and if he did so his funds would be released prior to the end of the 90 days. But this
didnt happen. Barclays have argued that they held on to the funds for 90 days because they
couldnt be sure that Mr K was entitled to the funds, and they may receive further claims.
However, the bank hadnt received any claims on the funds prior to this point  therefore I
dont think its fair that Barclays refused to review any further proof of entitlement that Mr K
might be able to provide.
Ive considered the difference this would have made  and I appreciate this will frustrate
Mr K however although the bank made an error here, I dont think this impacted on when
Mr Ks funds were released. I say this because Mr K hasnt been able to provide our service
with proof of entitlement which exactly matches the funds paid into his account  therefore I
think its unlikely, if Barclays had asked him for more proof in December 2019, that he would
have been able to provide it.
Ive moved on to consider the withholding of other funds deposited to Mr Ks account after
the restriction on the 23 November 2019. On the 3 December 2019 Mr K received a payment
of £2,950. Barclays held on to these funds  but didnt ask Mr K for any proof of entitlement.
Id expect them to have done this  and I cant see any justifiable reason for them to hold on
to these funds until the 23 March 2020 when most of Mr Ks funds were released.
Barclays have accepted that they made an error in failing to release some of Mr Ks funds on
the 23 March 2020  these funds were eventually released to Mr K along with compensatory
interest for the time they were additionally withheld.
Compensation:
Barclays have already paid Mr K £475 for the errors made. They explained this was for their
failures in addressing Mr Ks complaint, the length of time of the blocks, the poor service and
the delays in releasing the full amount of Mr Ks funds.
Our investigator recommended an additional £100, and Ive thought about whether this is
sufficient. Mr Ks basic bank account was unfairly closed without notice and a significant
amount of Mr Ks funds were withheld without any questions being asked regarding proof of
entitlement. I think Mr Ks experienced significant inconvenience in particular from having to
visit his local branch to collect his funds over an extended period of time and obtaining a new
account. Its unlikely this would have been the case if Barclays had asked Mr K for proof of
entitlement for all of the funds that were withheld, and the bank hadnt unfairly closed his
bank account.
Therefore I think in total Mr K should be compensated an additional £275, making his total
compensation £750.Response to my provisional decision:
Mr K didnt accept my provisional decision. In response Mr K explained how he doesnt think 
its fair that Barclays dont have to reopen his bank account  considering theyve acted 
unfairly in closing it. And he thinks the compensation isnt sufficient. Ive reconsidered Mr Ks 
points  and I understand hell be disappointed with my conclusion  but Im satisfied the 
recommendations I made in my Provisional Decision were fair and reasonable. 
As I previously explained, Ive considered whether it would be fair for Barclays to reopen 
Mr Ks bank account, however I dont think it would. I say this as a customer is only entitled 
to a basic bank account if they dont have access to another account providing banking 
services. And as both Mr K and his representative have explained Mr K has access to 
banking facilities  therefore I cant direct Barclays to reopen Mr Ks account. Instead I need 
to consider the impact Barclays actions caused Mr K. I appreciate hed like a higher level of 
compensation, however Mr Ks not provided any further evidence or explained why he thinks 
the compensation isnt reasonable. And, for the reasons Ive already outlined I think a total of 
£750 is fair compensation for the significant inconvenience Mr K experienced. 
Putting things right
I think Barclays should pay Mr K an additional £275 in compensation  making a total of 
£750. And pay 8% interest on the money withheld by the bank between December 2019 and 
March 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr K £275 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Pay 8% simple interest on £2,975 between the 3 December 2019 and the 
23 March 2020.
Any tax lawfully due on the interest may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction certificate to Mr K so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman