DRN-1628959
The complaint
Miss T complains that when the telephoned Lloyds Bank Plc it thought she was a different 
customer even though she had verified her identity using voice recognition technology. Shes 
also unhappy with it proposed to resolve her complaint.
What happened
Miss T holds an account with Lloyds. She uses telephone banking to access her account as 
she feels online banking is less secure.
On 23 October 2019 Miss T telephoned Lloyds in order to discuss her account. She verified 
her identity using Lloyds voice recognition technology. But when she was connected with a 
telephony agent, they greeted her using another customers name.
Miss T was concerned that she might have been able to transact on the other customers 
account. So, she complained about what had happened. She said Lloyds told her it would 
respond to her complaint within 28 hours. But it took around three weeks and Miss T chasing 
Lloyds before it responded.
When Lloyds responded to Miss Ts complaint it explained that the customer that had been 
ahead of her in the queue had disconnected their call just as it had received their details. 
Lloyds said this is what had caused Miss Ts details to have come through as a completely 
different customer - even though shed been fully verified using voice recognition technology. 
Lloyds accepted that an error had occurred. But it said, when Miss T was greeted by its 
telephony agent, they realised they had a different customers details in front of them. So, 
they informed Miss T theyd have to take her through security in order to access her 
accounts manually.
Lloyds apologised for what had happened and paid Miss T £75 compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset shed experienced. It also made an additional payment of £10 towards 
the cost of telephone calls Miss T had made in discussing her concerns.
But Miss T wasnt satisfied with the way in which Lloyds proposed to resolve her complaint 
and referred it to our service. She said what had happened had caused her considerable 
worry. And she said the delay in receiving Lloyds response to her complaint had 
compounded that distress. She therefore thought the compensation it had paid didnt 
adequately recognise the trouble and upset shed been caused. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Miss T and Lloyds but didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt with Miss Ts complaint 
fairly. And they thought the financial resolution it had offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Miss T disagreed with the investigators view of her complaint. So, the 
matters been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss T experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint. But, having thought about everything she and Lloyds have said, 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Miss T will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Lloyds doesnt dispute that Miss T was addressed by another customers name during her 
call on 23 October 2019. Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call in question and its 
clear thats what happened. Lloyds has accepted this shouldnt have happened. But its also 
explained what caused this error. And, impartially, I think Lloyds explanation about what 
happened was candid and reasonable. 
Miss T has raised concerns about the security of Lloyds telephone banking. But, as our 
service doesnt regulate banks, I cant comment on whether Lloyds telephone security 
processes are adequate or tell it they should be changed. I can, however, look at how Miss T 
was impacted by what happened and whether Lloyds acted fairly in offering to put things 
right. So, thats what Ive considered here.
Lloyds has paid Miss T a total of £85 to compensate her for the impact its mistake had. Its 
clear she doesnt think this adequately reflects her inconvenience and experience. But Im 
afraid I have to tell Miss T that I agree with our investigators view in that Im persuaded that 
£85 is a fair amount of compensation for Lloyds to pay for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss T suffered. Ill explain why.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service we have to take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
I understand Miss T hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. And, in 
those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Lloyds to pay financial loss 
or compensation for something that didnt happen.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. This is because its my role to consider what impact 
the banks actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our 
service, whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
The amount Lloyds has already paid Miss T is towards the lower end of the range for the 
category that this service would describe as moderate. I think thats a fair description of the 
difficulties Miss T had here. And Ill explain why I dont think they warrant a higher figure. 
I recognise this experience caused Miss T to have concerns that her account with Lloyds 
isnt secure. Shes worried someone could gain access to her account as she said the same 
error has happened twice already. But I havent seen any evidence this has happened more 
than once. And, when our service looks at awarding compensation, we have to consider 
what actually happened. We cant award compensation based on hypothetical and 
speculative situations.
I understand that Miss T doesnt have a debit card because shes concerned about security. 
Shes told our investigator shes now reluctant to use telephone banking as shes concerned 
what happened could happen again. And she says shes only able to physically visit a 
branch twice a week because she has to attend hospital appointments three days per week 
due to issues she has with her health. I dont doubt that what happened impacted Miss T more than it might have done with a 
customer that wasnt as reliant on telephone banking. But Im satisfied that Lloyds already 
recognised the impact this error had on Miss T when it offered to pay compensation here. I 
say this because the reasons why Miss T is so reliant on telephone banking are noted in the 
contact notes Lloyds provided our service. And these notes show what it took into account 
when it decided on the amount of compensation to award Miss T.
I can see Miss T is unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with her complaint. But our service 
doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling 
because its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, even if 
I did think Lloyds hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that 
element of Miss Ts concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I wont 
comment any further on this issue.
 
Ive taken on board all of Miss Ts comments about what happened. And I know she feels 
strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. But, having thought carefully about the 
impact all of this had on her, Im satisfied that the £75 compensation Lloyds paid is a 
reasonable amount thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that she would have 
been caused. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have 
told Lloyds to pay. 
Im also persuaded that the £10 payment Lloyds made towards Miss Ts telephone expenses 
is a reasonable sum to reflect the cost of telephone calls she made in trying to resolve her 
complaint. I havent seen any evidence that shows she incurred expenses over and above 
that amount. So, I cant fairly say a higher award is warranted here.
For the reasons outlines, Im satisfied the compensation Lloyds has already paid fairly 
recognises the impact its error had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. Im 
therefore not going to ask it to do anything further. This now brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve Miss Ts dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Miss T any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman