DRN-1823588
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
First Response Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
First Response Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr S was more than eleven years old, had been driven 
for 101,000 miles and had a price of £4,495;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
its clear that Mr S has had significant issues with the car which started on the day 
that it was supplied to him, hes stopped using the car, he made a statutory off-road 
notification about it and he complained about it to First Response Finance in May 
2019;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in May 2019 when 
the cars mileage was recorded as 102,426 and the inspection report concluded that 
the current issues wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied to Mr S;
the car had passed an MOT test in March 2019 when its mileage was 100,559;
although the independent expert says that the current issues wouldnt have been 
present when the car was supplied to Mr S, the evidence that Mr S has provided 
shows that hes had issues with the car since the day that it was supplied to him and 
hes been told that the pistons were low, oil had pushed through the turbo into the 
intercooler so he shouldnt drive the car because of the risk of fire and that repairs 
would cost £3,018;
the car has only been driven for about 1,500 miles since it was supplied to Mr S and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that those issues were present or developing at 
that time;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a car that cost £4,495 to have such 
issues so soon after it was supplied to Mr S so I consider it to be more likely than not 
that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for him to expect it to be; and
because of that, I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr S and I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for First Response Finance to allow him to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for First Response Finance to end the hire 
purchase agreement and to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr S (both at no cost to 
him). The agreement shows that Mr S didnt pay a deposit for the car but hes had little use 
of it - so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for First Response Finance to refund to 
Mr S all of the payments that hes made for the car (with interest). I also find that it should 
remove all information about the agreement from his credit file.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience to Mr S. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for First Response Finance to pay him £150 to compensate him 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order First Response Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr S  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr S all of the payments that hes made under that agreement.
3. Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Remove all information about the agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
5. Pay £150 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires First Response Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. First Response Finance must give Mr S a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman