DRN-2036152
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr S are complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked access to their current 
account and credit cards. 
 
What happened
On 30 November 2019, Mr S and his wife were trying to hire a car. They needed to pay a 
deposit so Mr S tried his and his wifes credit cards but both were declined. Mr S then tried 
his debit card  which was accepted. A few minutes later, a representative from HSBC called 
Mr S and asked several questions about the transactions. Mr S explained but HSBC told him 
their account (including credit cards) would be blocked for two working days. 
Mr S went to a branch to try to get the account unblocked. He explained what had happened 
and showed the receipts of the cancelled transactions, but the branch staff were unable to 
help. On 5 December, Mr S and Mrs E were asked to take proof of identification and address 
into the branch. Their account access was restored the following day.
When Mr S complained to HSBC, they said the cards were blocked as a precaution against 
suspected account takeover fraud. But they thought they could have resolved the situation 
quicker  so they apologised for poor service and offered Mr S £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr S declined the £200 offered and brought his complaint to us.
Mr S told us he was significantly impacted by HSBCs actions. He said he didnt have any 
other access to cash so had to sell some belongings to someone hed met recently so that 
hed have money to buy food and fuel. He said this caused him depression and anxiety. On 
top of this, it was inconvenient for Mr S to take time off work to take his documents into the 
branch  Mr S felt this was unnecessary as they already had copies of his documents. Mr S 
told us the £200 wasnt enough and hed like HSBC to pay him £6,000 compensation. He 
said he and his wife had the right to withdraw £500 per day each and their account was 
blocked for six days, so they lost the use of £6,000. 
Our investigator said she felt the £200 was fair compensation. She said HSBC didnt do 
anything wrong in carrying out the fraud checks and blocking the account  she felt HSBC 
were taking reasonable steps to protect their customers. But, she said, HSBC should have 
finished the checks quicker and restored access to the account by 4 December. She felt 
£200 was fair compensation for the additional two days that HSBC took to carry out the 
checks.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said he thought HSBC should be 
responsible for the whole period of six days after Mr S first confirmed hed been the one that 
had tried to make the declined transactions. And he said he thought HSBC werent 
protecting him, just themselves, as theyd allowed him to make the transaction on his debit 
card. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint  so its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mrs E and Mr S wont be happy with the outcome, Ive decided that 
HSBCs offer of compensation is fair  Ill explain why.
Mr S is unhappy that access to his account was blocked even though he confirmed on the 
phone that the declined transactions were his. But HSBC were concerned about account 
takeover fraud. This is where someone fraudulently takes over the whole running of another 
persons bank account and might include the phone number associated with the account. 
So, HSBC were concerned that the person they were speaking to on the phone shortly after 
the credit card transactions were declined wasnt Mr S at all. Thats why they needed some 
time to investigate.
And its why they needed him to take proof of identification into the branch even though they 
already held the documents there  they needed to establish that the person they were 
contacting was the same person who had initially set up the account. 
The rules that govern how banks deal with concerns about fraud allow a bank to temporarily 
stop access to accounts while they investigate their concerns. They say that the bank needs 
to inform the customer if theyre doing this, and why  and that the bank needs to allow 
access again as soon as practical.
In Mrs E and Mr Ss case, HSBC informed Mr S that they had concerns and would be 
stopping access to the account. Im satisfied they followed their process and that this 
process was in line with what the rules say. All that went wrong was that the process took 
longer than normal  instead of taking two working days, it took four.
Although I appreciate it was very inconvenient and upsetting for Mrs E and Mr S not to have 
access to their money for several days, Im satisfied that HSBCs actions in blocking the 
account were fair and reasonable  they needed to take this step to protect their customers 
money and their own business while they investigated their concern. 
So, I can only ask HSBC to compensate Mrs E and Mr S for the two additional days the 
investigation took  I cant take into account Mr Ss initial need to sell belongings to get 
access to cash, or his branch visits, because these would have been necessary even if 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr S has said he thinks compensation should be £1,000 per day  as thats the amount of 
money he and his wife could have withdrawn if theyd had access to their account. But, 
although they lost the use of it for two days as a result of HSBCs failings, theyve not lost 
this money. I cant see that theyve suffered any financial loss as a result of the additional 
two days. So, I can only consider compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused.
Im satisfied that the offer HSBC made is fair. I think £200 fairly reflects the inconvenience 
and upset of not having access to funds for the two additional days. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should pay £200 to Mrs E and Mr S.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman