DRN-3321975
The complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, mis-handled his current account 
switch.
What happened
Mr C opened a current account with HSBC in June 2021, intending to switch from his now 
former bank. In doing so, he stood to benefit from an offer where HSBC would pay him an 
incentive of £125 if he met certain conditions.
The switch didnt take place as planned as the addresses HSBC and the former bank held 
for Mr C didnt match. Mr C discovered this and complained to HSBC around a month later. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint because it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. HSBC said it 
had emailed Mr C on the day of the switch to advise him that it hadnt taken place, and why, 
and that he needed to contact his former bank. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr C complained to us. He said HSBC hadnt emailed him 
and that its failure to process the switch and keep him informed of its progress caused him a 
significant amount of worry. HSBC eventually paid Mr C the £125 incentive around two 
months after the switch was first due to happen.
Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They were satisfied that the evidence showed HSBC had emailed Mr C when it said it had. 
The investigator didnt think it was fair to hold HSBC responsible if, for reasons beyond its 
control, Mr C hadnt received or seen the email.
Mr C replied to say that he didnt accept the investigators findings. He said HSBC didnt let 
him know that the switch had failed to take place and that it should have made more 
attempts to contact him about it.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the planned switch of Mr Cs account didnt take place as planned in 
June 2021 due to the addresses held by both banks being different. Or that this 
understandably led to a degree of anxiety and frustration on Mr Cs part.
That said, I need to consider whether HSBC did anything wrong either in switching the 
account or keeping Mr C updated. In terms of the former, theres no suggestion that HSBC 
was at fault for the address details it held not matching those held by the former bank. I 
havent seen any evidence to show thats the case and I can understand why such a 
mismatch would cause an intended switch to fail  not least, for example, to protect Mr C 
from the switch occurring incorrectly.   
Ive gone on to consider what HSBC did once it became aware that the switch couldnt take 
place as planned. Its provided a copy of its internal audit records which I believe show that it 
sent an email to Mr C the day the switch failed. The email was correctly addressed to Mr C 
using the details hed provided and, in summary, said:
Mr Cs former bank couldnt proceed with the switch, so his request was cancelled.
The switch failed because the former bank confirmed that the addresses held by it 
and HSBC didnt match.
Mr C should contact his former bank to resolve the issue but could call HSBC on the 
number provided in case it could help in any way.
I think the email clearly set out what had gone wrong and what Mr C could do to resolve the 
matter. 
I realise that Mr C says he didnt receive the email. And I cant say, on balance, why that 
might be. But Im satisfied its more likely than not that HSBC sent the email and did so to 
the correct email address. On that basis, I cant fairly say that HSBC was at fault for Mr C not 
knowing the switch hadnt happened. 
Ive thought carefully about whether, as Mr C says, HSBC should have made further 
attempts to contact him about the switch. Of course, it was open for HSBC to, for example, 
send another email or write to Mr C by post. Having said that, HSBC had already emailed 
Mr C about the switch using the contact details it held. I cant see any reason why it would 
have had cause to suspect that Mr C hadnt received the email, or to think it needed to make 
further attempts to contact him.
While I realise the switch of accounts not happening as expected caused Mr C upset and 
inconvenience, I dont think HSBC was responsible for the reasons Ive set out above. So, I 
dont require HSBC to pay him any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman