DRN-1637625
The complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited, (Red Sands for 
short) have turned down his pet insurance claim. My reference to Red Sands includes its 
agent. 
What happened
Mr C has a time limited pet insurance policy with Red Sands for his dog. The policy covers 
treatment costs by a vet for accidents or illness for 365 days from the date of occurrence, up 
to a specified limit. 
In March 2018 Mr Cs dog was treated for an ear infection. Mr C didnt claim on the 
insurance though, as the cost was lower than the excess on the policy. 
In June 2019, Mr Cs dog had an unrelated ear infection. The vets bill on this occasion came 
to nearly £600 so he tried to claim on his policy. However, Red Sands turned down the 
claim, as it said it was now excluded on the policy. They said this was because it was a pre 
existing medical condition, due to the March 2018 ear infection. 
Mr C said that the two ear infections were not related, and that the first infection hadnt led to 
the second as Red Sands had claimed. Red Sands then explained that even if the conditions 
were not related, all ear conditions are no longer covered once the exclusion has been 
added to the policy. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. While she thought that Red Sands could 
have explained their reasoning better, she didnt think they had made an error in not paying 
out on the policy, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree, so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and Ive come to the same conclusion as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
The vets clinical notes show that Mr Cs dog had experienced two, possibly unrelated, ear 
infections. The time line shows that more than 365 days had elapsed between these dates. 
This is why Red Sands turned down the claim. 
I agree with the investigator that Red Sands couldve been clearer in their explanation 
initially as to why the second ear infection was turned down but I do think that they have 
acted fairly by turning down the claim. I will explain further. 
Ive had a look at the renewal documents that was sent to Mr C in January 2019. The Policy 
schedule contains a number of declaration questions. The first question is: 
1. Have you ever taken your dog to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations?It then goes on to say 
If the answer is 'yes' to any of the above questions, please contact us.
 It also says:
You are responsible for answering any questions in relation to any proposal for insurance 
cover honestly and to the best of your knowledge, providing complete and accurate 
information which the insurer will require, If you fail to disclose information, or misrepresent 
any fact which may influence the insurer's decision to accept the risk or the terms offered, 
this could invalidate the policy and mean that claims may not be paid, or not be paid in full. 
I havent seen anything to show that Mr C did make contact with Red Sands, but I'm satisfied 
that if he had informed them of the ear infection at this point, Red Sands wouldve confirmed 
that there was going to be an exclusion applied to his policy at renewal. I've seen the 
exclusion guide, which has been in effect since December 2011. I can see that if an ear 
infection had been disclosed at that time, exclusion on any condition relating to the ears 
wouldve been added to the policy at the renewal, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. If Mr C had decided he didnt want to continue with the policy under those terms, he 
wouldve been entitled to cancel the policy or discuss his options. 
Red Sands exclusion terms means it wont pay for costs relating to the ears after March 
2019 and as the second ear infection was in June that year I think it is entitled to apply the 
exclusion. As a consequence, Red Sands doesnt have to do anything further in respect of 
this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr C's complaint against    
  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman