DRN-2885967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that they were mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy in 1987. 
They believe it was mis-sold as it wasnt the most suitable mortgage repayment arrangement 
for them because of the risk linked to it. ReAssure Limited is now responsible for the sale of 
the policy.
What happened
The endowment policy started in September 1987. It was a with-profits policy for £60,000 
with a term of 24 years. The information about the mortgage indicates it may have started 
before the endowment policy, as Mr and Mrs W received a mortgage offer in the autumn of 
1986 for a mortgage with a term of 25 years.
Mr and Mrs W completed a questionnaire sent to them by ReAssure. In it they confirmed 
they bought a property in 1987 and the mortgage and endowment policy had been arranged 
together. The mortgage was with a high-street lender, for £60,000 and was to be repaid over 
25 years. The policy remained attached to their mortgage until around 1995 or 1996.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It said it didnt have any records about 
the policy or its sale, other than it appeared the policy ended in 1996. It said that due to the 
passage of time it wasnt able to complete a full investigation into the complaint, but it hadnt 
been provided with anything that indicated the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept ReAssures position and referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They said that they believe the 
adviser didnt assess or discuss their attitude toward risk extensively enough at the time of 
the sale  because they wouldnt have been willing to accept any risk with their mortgage. 
They said the endowment was pushed and they were told that it would pay off their 
mortgage over the term; they believed it was the only way to get a mortgage.
In addition, Mr and Mrs W said that they believed it would be logical to assume that 
endowments were not suitable for the majority of people as there was an inherent risk 
associated with them. They reiterated that they were first time buyers with no investment 
experience and were reliant on the information provided by the salesman. They believe there 
was a duty for the adviser to inform them of the risks associated with the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W also said they recalled the premiums for the policy increasing over the years 
and this led to them having to sell their property and surrender the policy. They provided 
information about their mortgage history, so that it could be established if they had suffered a 
loss due to having been sold the policy.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his conclusions. He did however, clarify that a 
mortgage history was not enough for a loss assessment to be completed. It would need to 
be established when Mr and Mrs W had stopped paying the endowment premiums, the 
amount of the premiums and how much they had received when they surrendered the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the passage of time since the sale and the surrender of the policy, there is very little 
evidence. We have documentation showing that Mr and Mrs W took out a with-profits 
endowment policy to protect and act as a repayment vehicle for their mortgage. There is no 
contemporaneous evidence about their circumstances or the discussions that took place 
before the policy was sold. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs W have provided their recollections about the mortgage and the 
discussions surrounding its arrangement, it would appear those recollections, entirely 
understandably, have been affected by the passage of time. I say this as theyve said they 
remember the endowment premium went up over the time they had it, to the point where 
they couldnt afford the payments and had to sell their home in the mid-90s. As theyd only 
had the policy for around 7 years when they surrendered it, the premium wouldnt have been 
reviewed yet. Rather, it would have been the mortgage interest that was changing on a 
regular basis and increasing the cost of the mortgage. 
As our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs W, in order to uphold a complaint, I must be 
satisfied that the adviser did something wrong when it was sold. At that time, endowment 
policies were not only paying off mortgages they were attached to, but also often providing 
significant additional sums. Whilst there was a risk associated with the policy, it would have 
been considered to be negligible at that time. So it is likely that the policy was represented to 
Mr and Mrs W in a very positive light and it would have been expected to pay off their 
mortgage at the end of the term. As such, the type of policy Mr and Mrs W were sold was 
considered appropriate for almost all consumers. 
So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to see evidence that the policy was clearly 
inappropriate.  I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but the evidence that is available, 
doesnt persuade me their circumstances were such that the with-profits endowment policy 
wasnt appropriate for them.
Furthermore, even if there had been evidence that the policy had been mis-sold, it wouldnt 
be possible to establish if theyd suffered a loss, and I would make it clear that it isnt always 
the case that there was a loss from an endowment policy sale, especially when the policy 
was surrendered so long ago. In order to complete a loss assessment, it is necessary to 
know when the mortgage started and ended, the period the policy premiums were paid, 
when it was surrendered and for how much. None of this information is known. Given the 
lack of key information, it wouldnt be possible to establish if Mr and Mrs M had suffered a 
loss as a result of having a mortgage endowment policy, even if I had upheld the complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman