DRN-4015141
The complaint
Mr G complains about charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) after his hire agreement ended.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr G took out a two-year contract hire agreement for a new car. MBFS later 
agreed to extend this for another two months, which meant the agreement was due to come 
to an end on 30 December 2021. 
Mr G says MBFS agreed another extension in January 2022. But MBFS say this wasnt 
finalised because Mr G hadnt signed the form theyd sent him.
MBFS agent collected the car on 7 February 2022. The agent checked the car over before 
he took it away, noting the mileage to have been 23,762. A full inspection was carried out 
three days later. MBFS sent Mr G an invoice listing additional charges for damage to the car, 
additional usage, excess mileage, and a missed service. 
Mr G disputed the charges. MBFS issued a final letter of response to his complaint, in which 
they agreed to remove two charges for damage to the front and rear doors on the left hand 
side of the car. But they said the remaining charges were correct, in line with their vehicle 
return standards. 
On 3 March 2022 MBFS issued a revised invoice to Mr G for charges totalling £2,923.81. 
This was broken down as follows:
Damage Value
Incomplete service history £292.00
Excess mileage £301.68
Additional vehicle usage £502.63
Bumper rear scratched £210.00
Parcel shelf/load cover broken £297.50
Bumper front non-professional repair £260.00
Door right hand rear scratched £210.00
Quarter panel right hand rear dented £260.00
Sill cover left hand dented £260.00
Wheel left hand front rim damaged £110.00
Wheel left hand rear spoke damaged £110.00
Wheel right hand rear rim damaged £110.00
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He said the car 
hadnt needed a service recently as it had been at the garage four or five times for repairs to 
major engine components, which would have involved changing the oil and other service 
parts. He said the excess mileage was caused by having to take the car for multiple repairs 
and test drives to diagnose faults. 
Mr G said he also disputed the charges for the damage to the parcel shelf and rear bumper, 
which he didnt believe were damaged when the car was collected. He felt it was unfair for 
MBFS to charge him a higher daily rate for returning the car late because theyd agreed to 
allow him an extension.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. He thought most of the charges had 
been applied fairly. But he thought MBFS should remove the charge for a dented left hand 
sill cover because he didnt think this had been fairly applied. 
MBFS agreed to remove the charge for the dented left hand sill. But Mr G remained 
unhappy. He questioned whether MBFS had records showing the number of times the car 
had been returned for repairs, and how long theyd had it for. He asked for an ombudsman 
to review things again. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Gs complaint is about a hire agreement. Entering into this type of consumer credit 
contract is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can look into this for him.
Ive started by considering whether it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to add charges after 
the agreement ended. Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr G signed on 17 October 2019, 
which states:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards.
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you 
will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
Im satisfied that MBFS had explained the condition theyd expect the car to be in when it 
was returned at the end of the hire period, and that Mr G could expect to face additional 
charges if these requirements werent met.
When considering whether the charges were fair, Ive started by reviewing each of the 
issues listed in MBFS invoice to decide whether it fell outside the return standards. And if I 
think it does, Ive also considered whether the amount charged was reasonable.
Service history
MBFS vehicle return standards say:
A full service history is required. The vehicle must be serviced and maintained in 
accordance with the manufacturers published service intervals.The inspection report dated 10 February 2022 includes a photo of the dashboard display 
saying: Service B1 overdue by 53 days.
I appreciate Mr G feels this service wouldnt have been necessary  hes told us that the car 
had been to the garage several times in the last year for engine repairs. Ive given careful 
thought to the point hes raised.
But Im satisfied that the agreement made it clear that MBFS would expect the car to have 
been fully serviced at the recommended intervals. So, when engine repairs were carried out, 
I think it would have been reasonable for Mr G to ask the garage whether that would affect 
when the next service would be needed. If the next scheduled service was no longer 
necessary, I think he could have asked the garage to record that a service had already been 
carried out, and to reset the service indicator on the dashboard. 
For this reason, I think it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr G for a missed service. And I dont 
consider £292 to be unreasonable for this.
Broken parcel shelf
MBFS vehicle return standards say:
The vehicle must be free from any broken or damaged items
and that:
Broken or damaged interior mouldings are not acceptable.
Ive seen photos showing the parcel shelf was broken when the car was inspected on 10 
February 2022. The doorstep appraisal report records this to have been broken when the car 
was collected, so Im satisfied that this damage was most likely to have happened while the 
car was in Mr Gs possession. 
I think it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr G for this damage. And I dont consider the charge 
of £297.50 to be unreasonable.
Damage to wheels - left hand front rim, left hand rear spoke, right hand rear rim
MBFS vehicle return standards say the following is acceptable:
Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel 
face.
Ive reviewed the photos of the damaged wheels, which show a ruler positioned close to the 
damaged areas. 
The left hand rear wheel is dirty, which possibly makes it more difficult to see the scratches. I 
can clearly see a scuffed area on one of the spokes, but this doesnt exceed 25mm in length. 
Im not persuaded that this falls outside the return standards, so I dont think its fair for 
MBFS to charge for this. 
The left hand front and right hand rear wheels both clearly have damage to the rims that 
significantly exceeds 25mm. Im satisfied that this falls outside the return standards, so I 
think it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr G for repairs to those wheels. And I dont think a 
charge of £110 per wheel is unreasonable for this.  
Damage to bodywork1. Non-professional repair - front bumper
In relation to bumpers and body mouldings, the return standards say:
Repairs not conforming to original finish and specification are not acceptable.
Ive seen a photo of the front bumper, showing an area that clearly hasnt been repaired 
to a professional standard. Im satisfied that it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr G for 
repairing and refinishing this. 
2. Scratches - rear bumper and right hand rear door
In relation to bumpers, the return standards say:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of 
your vehicle are acceptable. 
In relation to body and paint, they say:
Light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by 
polishing/touch up are acceptable.
The inspection report says a charge has been made for a scratch that exceeds 50mm in 
length. Ive seen photos of the rear bumper, which do show some scratches. But I cant 
see any that exceed 50mm in length, so Im not persuaded that this damage falls outside 
the return standards. 
Ive seen a photo of the right hand rear door, showing a ruler close to the damaged area. 
I can see at least two scratches that have clearly gone through the top coat of the paint. 
Im satisfied that this falls outside the return standards, so I think it was fair for MBFS to 
charge for a repair.
3. Dents - right hand rear quarter panel and left hand sill cover
The return standards say the following are acceptable:
Minor body dent, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that... they are 
less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
Ive seen photos of the right hand rear quarter panel, showing a ruler and striped card 
positioned close to the damaged area. I can see more than one dent in the bodywork, as 
well as damage to the paintwork. The largest dent clearly falls outside MBFS vehicle 
return standards due to its size. Im satisfied that it was fair for Mr G to be charged for 
this.  
Ive seen photos of the left hand sill cover, showing a ruler positioned close to the 
damaged area. I can clearly see scratches here, but Im unable to see whether the sill is 
also dented. For this reason, Im not persuaded that the charge for damage to this sill has 
been correctly applied. I note that MBFS have already agreed to remove this charge. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that it was fair for MBFS to charge for the 
damage to the front bumper, right hand rear door and right hand rear quarter panel. Ive 
gone on to consider whether the amount charged was reasonable. MBFS applied two charges of £260 for repairing and refinishing the front bumper and right 
hand rear quarter panel, and a charge of £210 for refinishing the right hand rear door. I can 
see similar charges have been applied for broadly similar types of damage, so I think these 
charges are likely to be based on a standard tariff of charges. 
Ive seen no evidence as to whether MBFS had these repairs carried out. In the absence of 
further evidence about this, Im not persuaded that this would cost a total of £730. I say that 
because I consider it unlikely that repairs to three areas of the car would cost three times as 
much as repairing a single panel or moulding. Id expect there to be some efficiencies to be 
made when working on more than one area of the car at the same time. 
Im aware that its not uncommon for end-of-lease cars to be sold at auction without being 
repaired. In those circumstances I consider it likely that damage to the bodywork will reduce 
the cars resale value  and I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to be compensated for 
that. A number of factors can affect the price paid for a vehicle at auction on any given day, 
so its difficult to know exactly what the impact of the damage would have been on this cars 
resale value. 
Having thought about the amount of bodywork damage that I consider to be chargeable in 
this case, the likely repair costs, efficiencies to be made when repairing more than one area 
of the car at the same time, or the actual reduction in the cars resale value, I think a 
reasonable sum for Mr G to pay for bodywork repairs would be £650. 
Additional Vehicle Usage
Ive seen that the agreement Mr G signed in October 2021 was expected to last for a fixed 
period of 24 months. MBFS have told us that they agreed a two-month extension, meaning 
the agreement would end on 30 December 2021. Ive seen evidence confirming no further 
direct debit payments were taken from Mr Gs account after this. 
MBFS say the additional usage charge of £502.63 was to cover the period from 30 
December 2021 to 7 February 2022, when the car was collected. Mr G says it was unfair for 
MBFS to charge him a higher daily rate during this period, because theyd agreed another 
extension. 
I appreciate theres some dispute as to whether a further extension was agreed. But I dont 
think its necessary for me to decide this point, because I dont think it affects what I consider 
to be the right outcome in this case. Ill explain why.
I think its fair for Mr G to pay for the additional period of use hes had of the car. So, Ive 
gone on to review the amount hes been charged for that period. The agreement states:
If you fail to return the vehicle when required to do so to the agreed location, additional days 
hire charges calculated on a pro-rata basis of the monthly rental will be payable by you up 
until and including the day on which the vehicle is returned to us.
MBFS invoice dated 3 March 2022 states 38 days additional usage has been charged at 
£11 per day plus VAT.  Having checked this, Im satisfied that this daily rate represents the 
monthly rental charge Mr G had been paying throughout the agreement divided, by 30. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest MBFS applied a higher rate for the period after 30 
December 2021. So, regardless of whether a further extension was agreed, I dont think Mr 
G has been treated unfairly here. 
Excess mileageThe agreement states:
If you return the vehicle to us and you have exceeded the total permitted mileage, which 
is based on an annual permitted mileage of 10,000 miles, an excess mileage charge of 
12.00p excluding VAT for each mile will be payable by you for each additional mile 
exceeding the total permitted mileage.
The doorstep appraisal report shows the car had travelled 23,762 miles at the time it was 
collected. MBFS say the total permitted mileage was 21,667, based on the agreement period 
of two years and two months. The invoice dated 3 March 2022 states Mr G was charged 
£301.68 for having covered 2,095 excess miles, charged at 12 pence per mile.
I dont think thats quite right. The agreement states that the total permitted mileage is 
calculated using the annual permitted mileage stated in this agreement for each year or part 
of year between the start date and the date of return.
The evidence Ive seen shows the hire period began on 30 October 2019 and the car was 
collected on 7 February 2022. I calculate this to have been a period of approximately 2 
years, 3 months and 1 week. So, Id expect the total permitted mileage to have been in the 
region of 22,708 miles. That would mean the car had covered 1,054 miles more than the 
total permitted mileage. 
MBFS say theyve calculated the excess mileage correctly - they feel strongly that Mr G had 
only paid for the use of the car and mileage allowance until 30 December 2021. They dont 
think the period after that should be factored into the calculation of the maximum permitted 
mileage, as that might encourage the customer to hold on to the car.
But I find MBFS agreement terms clearly state the total permitted mileage should be 
calculated up to the date the car is returned. I also bear in mind that MBFS have charged Mr 
G for additional daily use of the car for the period after 30 December 2021. I think its 
reasonable to assume the additional usage charge would include a charge for using the 
car, which would increase the mileage. 
Mr G says he incurred excess mileage because he had to take the car to the garage several 
times for repairs. But Ive seen no supporting evidence about this. In the absence of further 
information, I do think its fair for Mr G to pay for the excess mileage the car has covered. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, I think that charge should be based on 1,054 excess 
miles at 12 pence per mile. I calculate this to be a charge of £126.48 plus VAT.
To summarise, I think the following charges were fairly applied in this case:
Incomplete service history £292
Additional vehicle usage £502.63
Broken parcel shelf £297.50
Left hand front wheel rim damaged £110
Right hand rear wheel rim damaged £110
I think MBFS should remove the following charges because Im not persuaded that they 
were fairly applied:
Left hand rear wheel spoke damaged £110
Rear bumper scratched £210
Left hand sill cover dented £260I think it was fair for charges to be applied for the following, but I think the amount Mr G is 
required to pay should be reduced:
Excess mileage £301.68
Front bumper non-professional repair £260
Right hand rear door scratched £210
Right hand rear quarter panel scratched £260
If MBFS has recorded any adverse information on Mr Gs credit file in relation to non-
payment or late payment of these charges I think this should be removed, provided Mr G 
settles the revised amount he owes them within thirty days of accepting my final decision. 
I said I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct MBFS to:
1. Remove the following charges:
Left hand rear wheel spoke damaged £110
Rear bumper scratched £210
Left hand sill cover dented £260
2. Reduce the excess mileage charge to £126.48 plus VAT.
3. Reduce the total cost of the following repairs to £650:
Front bumper non-professional repair
Right hand rear door scratched
Right hand rear quarter panel scratched
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file about non-payment or late 
payment of these charges, provided Mr G settles the revised amount within thirty days of 
accepting my final decision.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G didnt respond. MBFS provided additional comments and photos, which Ill summarise:
In relation to removal of charges MBFS said:
Wheel LHR  one of the images in the inspection report shows scuff marks in excess 
of 25mm running down both sides of the spoke. Other areas of the same alloy were 
in a similar condition, in particular the bottom left-hand corner and the top end (both 
sides) of the spoke where the measuring tool is placed. The alloy face would need to 
be polished to give a consistent finish. A photo was provided.
Bumper rear  one of the images in the inspection report shows at least three 
scratches which have combined total markings in excess of 50mm. A photo was 
provided.
Sill cover LH  MBFS have agreed to remove this charge.
In relation to reduction of the excess mileage charge MBFS said:
They disagree that Mr G should have an additional mileage allowance due to having 
kept the vehicle beyond the term of his agreement. The agreement was held with Mr G with the expectation that the vehicle would be 
returned by 30 December 2021. As he was in breach of this - and the additional 
usage charge had been deemed to be correctly applied  the total mileage allowance 
would not be increased.
MBFS disagree that the combined cost of bodywork repairs should be reduced by £80:
Bodywork repairs are subject to an individual cost of repair in line with their damage 
charge matrix, on the basis that damage falls outside the return standards. 
Whilst MBFS understand efficiencies would be applicable if all three repairs were 
completed at the same time, this isnt always the case. The vehicle may be 
completely repaired, alternatively some or none of the repairs may be carried out 
before the vehicle is sold at auction. This is why damage has to be considered on an 
individual basis. 
MBFS do consider the financial implication of the vehicle not being repaired, and 
therefore dont charge VAT on damage charges.
In relation to removal of adverse information reported on Mr Gs credit file:
The account is currently held with a debt collection agency. At this stage no legal 
proceedings have taken place, so theres been no impact on Mr Gs credit file.
If Mr G believes there has been an impact on his credit file, this may be in relation to 
the financial agreement rather than end of contact charges. This is a separate 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to MBFS for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. But having 
reconsidered the evidence in this case, Ive seen nothing in the additional information and 
images MBFS have provided that changes my mind. 
Ive closely examined the image of the left hand rear wheel. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the fact that the wheel is dirty makes it difficult to see whether the marks are 
scratches, or simply dirt. I dont find enlarging the image to make it any clearer. Im unable to 
see scuff markings that exceed 25mm.
Having re-examined the image of the rear bumper, I cant see any scuffs that exceed 50mm 
in length. Although I can see the total length of the scratches would exceed 50mm, theres 
nothing in the return standards to suggest this is a requirement. So this doesnt affect my 
decision.
I appreciate MBFS dont agree that the excess mileage charge should be reduced. But Ive 
seen no new information about this, so my decision remains the same. 
Ive considered MBFS comments about the combined cost of bodywork repairs. Ive seen no 
new information that persuades me to change my mind about this. In my provisional decision 
I discussed the possibility that the vehicle may be put into auction without repairs having 
been carried out, so I wont repeat that here. 
Im grateful to MBFS for explaining the status of Mr Gs account, and that nothing has been 
recorded on his credit file about these charges at this stage. To be clear, I do think Mr G was entitled to challenge the total amount of charges MBFS 
claimed from him - and payment has been delayed whilst this matter has been ongoing. 
Provided Mr G now settles the revised amount he owes MBFS within 30 days of accepting 
my final decision, I dont think it would be fair for this to be recorded on his credit file as a 
late payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
1. Remove the following charges if they havent done so already:
Left hand rear wheel spoke damaged £110
Rear bumper scratched £210
Left hand sill cover dented £260
2. Reduce the excess mileage charge to £126.48 plus VAT.
3. Reduce the total cost of the following repairs to £650:
Front bumper non-professional repair
Right hand rear door scratched
Right hand rear quarter panel scratched
4. Ensure no adverse information is recorded on Mr Gs credit file about non-payment or late 
payment of these charges, provided he settles the revised amount within thirty days of 
accepting my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman