DRN-1285675
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs C complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited mis-sold 
two endowment policies to them because they were pressured into taking out the policies 
and couldn't afford them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an interest-only mortgage for £60,000 which started in 1989. In 1992 they 
took out an endowment policy for 23 years for the same amount as the mortgage and for the 
remaining term of 23 years. But they stopped paying the premium after only five months, in 
January 1993.
They took out another endowment policy in July 1994 for the same amount as the mortgage 
and for a term of 20 years, at a higher premium than the first policy. They paid the premiums 
for this policy until January 2000 when they cancelled it.
They also had two Whole of Life (WOL) policies, one taken out in 1990 and the other in 
1994. They have complained about the sale of those policies as well but these have been 
dealt with separately.
In its final response to the complaint Sun Life offered to pay redress to Mr and Mrs C on the 
basis that the adviser hadn't discussed other options for repaying the mortgage or 
explained that a repayment mortgage was the only guaranteed way of repaying the 
mortgage.
It compared the position Mr and Mrs C would've been in if they had a repayment mortgage 
instead of an interest-only mortgage with endowment policies and said they would've been 
better off  with a repayment mortgage. It calculated that for the first policy they would've 
been better off by £376 at the time they stopped paying the premium and offered £1021 to 
include interest. For the second policy it calculated they would've been better off by £3,354 
at the time they cancelled the policy and offered £7,554 to include interest. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He 
thought the offers made by Sun Life were reasonable. With regard to the specific point 
raised by Mr and Mrs C that they incurred bank charges as a result of paying the premiums 
for the endowment policies because of their financial position, the investigator wasn't 
satisfied that the bank charges were incurred solely because they were sold the 
endowment policies.
Mr and Mrs C didn't agree. They said that the investigator hadn't contacted them about the 
complaint or the bank charges and that the complaint hasn't been investigated properly. 
They said that from the start they had made clear that they thought their complaints about 
the endowment policies and the WOL policies they were sold should be considered as one 
complaint.They said when looking at the various policies they were sold as a whole it shows Sun Life 
kept trying to sell them policies which they didn't want and that they were harassed into 
taking out. They said they didn't want any policies as they couldn't afford them at the time 
and if they hadn't paid for the policies they could've used the money to pay other direct 
debits. They also suggested thye had an existing mortgage and endowment policy before 
seeing the adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Sun Life about their 'policies' but were unable to identify what 
type of policies they were referring to. Sun Life identified two WOL policies they had been 
sold, which are the subject of a separate complaint, and the two endowment policies the 
subject of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C want their complaints about all the policies to be considered together because 
their reasons for complaining were the same for all the policies, in short that they didn't want 
the policies and were harassed/coerced/pressured into taking them out.
I understand why Mr and Mrs C may want the complaints to be considered together. I don't 
think it is necessarily the case that I need to do this to be able to deal fairly with 
the complaints - if pressure had been applied in 1990 to take out the first WOL policy for 
example this wouldn't provide any evidence that pressure was applied for later sales.
But I have also looked at and drafted a decision on their complaint about the WOL policies at 
the same time as considering this complaint. So I have considered the overall picture with 
regard to whether they were coerced or pressured into taking out any policies.
Having done so it is difficult to see in what way they could be pressured or coerced into 
taking out any of the policies. The WOL policies weren't linked to the sale of anything else 
they needed at the time, such as a loan or mortgage. And the endowment policies were sold 
to cover a pre-existing mortgage, so they were aware they didn't need the policies to have 
the policies to have the mortgage.
There is a significant difference between an adviser being very persuasive about their need 
for a particular policy and them being pressured or coerced into taking this out. Advising Mr 
and Mrs C to take out an endowment policy that could potentially pay off the capital owing on 
their interest-only mortgage at the end of the term wasn't unreasonable.
There is no evidence to support what Mr and Mrs C have said about being coerced or 
pressured into taking out the policies, and their own recollection of what happened around 
25 years ago or more isn't persuasive evidence this is what happened. With regard to the 
1994 policy Mr and Mrs C will have been even more aware they didn't need to have the 
policy given they had cancelled the previous policy they had taken out in 1992. So I'm not 
satisfied they did take out any policies as a result of coercion or undue pressure from the 
adviser.
I have considered whether the endowment policies were suitable recommendations. With 
regard to the first endowment policy taken out in 1992, the amount and term of the policy 
was in line with the interest only mortgage they took out in 1989. I have seen no evidence 
they had an existing policy that would pay off the mortgage at the end of the term or provide 
life cover. At the time of sale an endowment policy was a suitable way to pay off an interest-
only mortgage at the end of the term and provide life cover during the term.Mr and Mrs C have suggested the policy wasn't affordable. I note they stopped paying the 
premiums after only five months which suggests they were having difficulty with keeping up 
the payments and had other priorities. Mr and Mrs C provided further evidence to Sun Life of 
their financial position by way of statements showing arrears charges applied to their 
mortgage on a regular basis over many years. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs C have had some financial difficulties over the years, as evidenced 
by the arrears charges they incurred. But they didn't incur such charges in the months 
leading up to being advised to take out the endowment policy in 1992. And I have also seen 
no evidence that the adviser was made aware of any financial difficulties they may have had.
Similarly, the 1994 endowment was for the amount of the mortgage and remaining term so 
was suitable to pay off the mortgage and provide life cover in the meantime. Again Mr and 
Mrs C suggest the policy wasn't affordable. The evidence shows they had again been paying 
arrears charges but not for a couple of months before they saw the adviser. And again there 
is no evidence the adviser was made aware of any financial difficulty. And unlike the 1992 
policy they maintained the payments to the policy for around six years.
I also note that in 1992 and 1994 both Mr C and Mrs C were in employment and paid above 
the average wage for their ages. And on the face of the evidence in the fact find they were in 
a position to afford the policies.
In the circumstances I'm not satisfied that the adviser was wrong to recommend either policy 
based on a lack of affordability. 
Sun Life upheld the complaint about the endowment policies on the basis that there wasn't 
evidence the adviser had discussed alternative ways of paying off the mortgage or provided 
an illustration that showed a repayment mortgage was the only guaranteed way to pay off 
the mortgage.
Given Sun Life has accepted the adviser should've discussed other options I make no 
specific finding on this point but note that, given what Mr and Mrs C have said about their 
financial circumstances at the time and the evidence they have provided about this, it is 
questionable whether they would've been able to afford a repayment mortgage. 
I note Sun Life's calculations for the redress payable on the basis of a comparison with what 
they would've paid if they had taken out a repayment mortgage which seem reasonable to 
me in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Sun Life should also pay the bank charges they incurred 
whilst they paid the premiums for the two policies. But there is no evidence they incurred 
bank charges as a result of paying the premiums for either endowment policy. And the 
statements they provided show they incurred arrears charges in relation to the mortgage 
when they weren't paying into any of the policies.
So I'm not satisfied it is  more likely than not the bank charges were only incurred because of 
the payments made for the endowment policies so this isn't something it would be 
reasonable to ask Sun Life to pay.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman