DRN-2922694
The complaint
Miss P has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA)s decision 
to settle a claim as a fault claim under her car insurance policy.
All reference to AA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Miss P was involved in an incident with a bus which caused damage to her car. She reported 
it to her insurer, AA. 
AA settled the claim as a fault claim. Miss P didnt agree with AAs decision and so she 
complained. Miss P was also unhappy with not being provided with a courtesy car. But AA 
didnt uphold her complaints. 
Miss P asked us to look at her complaint about AAs decision to settle the claim as a fault 
claim. Our investigator thought AA had properly considered the information available to it 
and reached its decision about liability in a reasonable way. So he didnt recommend AA do 
anything more. 
Miss P didnt agree. Ive addressed her points in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat it in 
the same level of detail here. The circumstances of the incident are that Miss P was driving 
behind a bus which proceeded to turn right. While it was waiting to turn right, Miss P 
attempted to undertake the bus on the left but there wasnt enough room. Miss P says she 
was stationary when the rear of the bus hit her car as it turned right. 
AA initially looked to deal with the claim as a non-fault claim. But after the bus company 
provided CCTV footage, AA decided to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. We can look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss Ps policy with AA has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor 
insurance policies. This term allows AA to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in 
Miss Ps name. This means AA might make a decision Miss P doesnt agree with, but the 
policy allows AA to do this. We dont think this term is unfair in principle - provided an insurer 
can show it acted reasonably when applying it. 
Ive reviewed the CCTV footage provided by the bus company and by Miss P. I agree the 
footage from the bus company doesnt show whether Miss P was stationary or not at the 
time of the collision. But I dont think this makes a difference. Footage provided by both 
parties shows the space on the left at the junction is narrow - when attempting to undertake 
a bus as it turns right.
Ive considered Miss Ps view about the incident. She believes the bus driver carried out a 
hazardous manoeuvre and should have taken more care in line with the Highway Code. She 
believes the bus driver should have checked their mirrors and  having seen her car - 
abandoned their manoeuvre. However, I think from all of the information provided  and in 
line with the Highway Code  that the greater duty of care was on the party behind 
attempting to undertake a large vehicle which was correctly carrying out a right turn 
manoeuvre. 
The Highway Code says that for large vehicles (22):
These may need extra road space to turn or to deal with a hazard that you are not 
able to see. If you are following a large vehicle, such as a bus or articulated lorry, be 
aware that the driver may not be able to see you in the mirrors. Be prepared to stop 
and wait if it needs room or time to turn.
AA and solicitors acting for Miss P explained that it couldnt defend liability as the footage 
showed Miss P attempted to undertake the bus when it wasnt safe to do so. I think AA 
properly considered all of the information available to it. It. And having done so, I dont think 
it its decision to settle the claim as it did was unreasonable. 
I understand Miss P will be very disappointed with my decision. Miss P says her No Claims 
Bonus (NCB) was lost as a result of the claim. Miss P bought cover to protect her NCB 
under her policy with AA. She will still need to declare the fault claim for future insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman