DRN-4372523
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the replacement phone Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) sent him, to settle a claim he made under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out a gadget insurance policy with Assurant and first made an accidental damage 
claim under the policy in July 2021, which was accepted in August 2021 resulting in his 
phone being repaired. Two weeks later, Mr D informed Assurant that the phone had been 
damaged, and he was sent a replacement phone. Assurant also provided a 12-month 
warranty covering any mechanical or electrical defects that might arise with the replacement 
phone. 
In July 2022, Mr D reported his phone was faulty, but after checking the phone, in August 
2022, Assurant said no faults could be found. In October 2022, Mr D reported further faults 
with his phone and Assurant sent him a replacement phone (in error, as the claim had been 
made outside the 12-month warranty). Then, in July 2023, Mr D contacted Assurant to say 
he was having issues with using some applications (apps) on the replacement phone. 
Mr D said that when he attempted to connect his smart watch to his phone he received a 
message from the app saying the phone wont allow him to use the app because it wasnt 
issued in a country thats authorised for use with the app. Mr D said hed expected to receive 
a like for like product with the same functionality as the phone he claimed for, as if it had 
been purchased in the UK.
Assurant declined Mr Ds claim on the basis that hed made a claim outside of the 12-month 
warranty period and also on the basis that his policy doesnt provide cover for issues related 
to applications or software. Mr D said that as the claim wasnt in relation to a fault with the 
phone, then it wasnt made outside of the warranty. He believes that as the issue has to do 
with loss of functionality, that implies there is a fault within the phone. So, Mr D complained 
to Assurant about its claim decision.
On 24 July 2023, Assurant issued its final response not upholding the complaint. It said that 
the warranty had expired on 22 August 2022, so when Mr D made a further claim in 
July 2023, there was no cover in place. And, even if the claim had been made within the 
warranty term, Assurant pointed to an exclusion in the policy that says the contents of the 
phone arent covered, including software downloads and apps.
Unhappy with the way Assurant responded to his complaint, Mr D referred it to this service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view in 
September 2023, not upholding the complaint. He explained that the issue Mr D was 
claiming for wasnt covered by the policy terms as it only occurred once Mr D tried to 
connect his smart watch to the phone. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the issue hes unhappy about is the 
compatibility of the phone with hardware designed to be used with the phone. He added that 
the manufacturer of the smart watch has specifically blocked functionality in phones not 
designed for use in the UK. Mr D says that Assurant never said that his UK designated 
original phone would be replaced by cheaply sourced foreign phone. He believes the 
replacement phone should be like for like.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ds further points by saying that issues with hardware 
designed to be used with the phone arent covered by the policy. He also said that as the 
issue was raised on 13 July 2023, it was outside of the warranty period which expired on 
22 August 2022. Our investigator remained of the view that Assurant hadnt unfairly declined 
the claim. As Mr D still didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision to be 
made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why, first 
by making reference to the policy terms and conditions. 
Page 3 of the policy terms set out the risks that are covered by the policy, which include 
breakdown including faults. 
The terms say: 
If your gadget is damaged or breaks down we will either:
1) repair the gadget (where possible), or
2)replace it with a gadget of the same make, model and memory size. If we cannot 
do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
Further down on the same page it says: 
Replacements
1)where we replace the mobile device the replacement will be a refurbished or 
remanufactured (not brand new) device.
On page 7 of the policy terms, it sets out some of the policy exclusions which include:
Contents of your gadget. We only cover the gadget, we dont cover the contents. 
This means that any pictures, software, downloads, apps, music or any other content 
is not covered by this policy, so make sure you back it up regularly.
Assurant explained that in-line with normal insurance practice they may send devices that 
originated from outside of the UK or EU, but they will ensure the devices are compatible for 
use within the UK. It also said that the problem Mr D had described, of the phone not 
connecting correctly with his smart watch app, was likely to be a software issue rather than a 
problem with the device itself.
Having considered the policy terms and Assurants comments on those terms, Ive 
concluded that problems with a phone connecting with an app, would not be covered by the 
policy. Rather, it is only faults with the actual device that would be covered.
Assurant also explained that when a replacement phone is provided under the policy, a 12-month warranty is provided with the phone. The warranty covers the replacement device 
against mechanical faults or breakdowns that may occur within the 12-month period. 
Assurant provided a copy of the warranty leaflet that is sent with the phone, which says:
We provide your replacement phone with a full 12-month warranty from the date of 
despatch which covers it for any mechanical and electrical failures as a result of any 
manufacturing faults or defect. 
So, considering the terms of the warranty its clear that it also only provides cover for faults 
with the actual device, arising from mechanical or electrical faults. The warranty therefore 
also wouldnt cover issues in relation to compatibility with specific apps. Taking everything 
into account, I agree that the issue claimed for by Mr D was not something that the policy or 
subsequent warranty offered cover for.
While this provides sufficient reason for Mr Ds complaint to not be upheld, it might help Mr D 
if I also explain why his complaint was made outside of the warranty period. Assurant have 
explained that while the first replacement device is returned to the customer with a 12-month 
warranty, the sending of a further replacement device, as happened in August 2022, doesnt 
trigger another 12-month warranty period  so the warranty expired in August 2022. 
The warranty provided by Assurant, with the replacement phone is separate to the gadget 
policy that Mr D original claimed under. The warranty was a 12-month warranty and was only 
given in relation to the first replacement phone that Mr D was sent. As it had expired by the 
time Mr D made his July 2023 claim, the claim wasnt valid because it was made outside the 
period of cover offered by the warranty.
Having carefully considered all of the available evidence, I think Assurant has fairly declined 
Mr Ds July 2023 claim in relation to his phones incompatibility with the app for his smart 
watch. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in this decision my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman