DRN-3420700
The complaint
Miss A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined her claim following an 
accident involving her car under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss As father was driving her car when it was involved in an accident in September 2021. 
She made a claim to Admiral, but it declined to cover the claim as her father isnt insured 
under her policy. Admiral told Miss A to contact her fathers insurer. Miss A says she has 
fully comprehensive cover and expects Admiral to cover her loss. She says her fathers 
insurance allows him to drive her car, so she didnt breach the terms of her policy. 
Miss A says she experienced a poor standard of service from Admiral. She waited on hold 
for a long time when calling, and it didnt arrange a call back when asked. 
Admiral apologised for the poor service and offered £10 to cover the cost of calls and £50 
compensation for the upset caused. But it declined the claim, with reference to its policy 
terms, as the car wasnt being driven by a person insured on Miss As policy at the time of 
the claim. 
Miss A didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He says Miss A is the only insured driver on her policy, which 
means Admiral isnt responsible for dealing with the claim. He thought it was appropriate for 
the business to refer Miss A to her fathers insurer. And that its apology and compensation 
payment was fair to acknowledge the poor service provided. 
Miss A wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked that an ombudsman review her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss As father was driving the car at the time of the accident. This isnt disputed. I have read 
the policy terms to understand what cover is provided in these circumstances. The terms 
under, General exceptions say:
We will not pay for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused or contributed to 
by:
1. Your vehicle being:
a. used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance.
Miss As Certificate of Motor Insurance under the section entitled, Persons or classes or 
persons entitled to drive includes Miss As name only. Based on this information Miss As 
father wasnt insured on her policy. I dont dispute her comments that hes insured to drive 
other cars through his own policy. But the terms of her policy are clear that Admiral is not 
liable for any loss when her vehicle is used by someone who isnt named on her policy. 
In these circumstances I think it was appropriate for Admiral to refer Miss A to her fathers 
insurer. But I think its been shown that her policy with Admiral doesnt provide cover for her 
father, and the business isnt responsible for handling this claim.  
I acknowledge Miss As comments that she has a comprehensive insurance policy. And Im 
sorry that her father suffered injuries as a result of the accident. I hope he is feeling better. 
But I havent seen anything to show that Admiral should be liable for the losses relating to 
the accident. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss A experienced poor service when she called Admiral and was 
kept waiting for long periods. I can understand it must have been frustrating, and that she 
was disappointed when she was promised a call back that didnt happen. Admiral doesnt 
dispute that a call back shouldve been arranged, and that Miss A was kept waiting. I think its 
apology and £60 payment is fair to recognise the additional call charges and the trouble she 
was caused.  
Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Miss A has incurred costs following the 
accident, I dont think Admiral treated her unfairly in relying on its policy terms and declining 
her claim. I dont think it treated her fairly, in the call handling delays and failure to call her 
back. But I think its apology and £60 compensation is fair in acknowledging this. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman