DRN-4358877
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money acted 
irresponsibly when it provided him with a credit card in early 2021.
Background
Mr S applied for a credit card with Madison in February 2021. He has said that the card was 
never affordable, and that Madison didnt perform adequate checks because if it had it 
wouldve realised he had a history of missed payments and county court judgements logged 
on his credit file and wouldnt have given him the card. He wants Madison to refund all the 
interest and charges applied to the account as well as removing any late payment or default 
markers associated with it from his credit file. 
Madison has said that it asked Mr S to complete an income and expenditure form and ran 
some checks against his credit file. It said based on these it believed the card was affordable 
and so it doesnt think it was wrong to provide him with the credit. 
Unhappy with Madisons response Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint already. She found that there was enough evidence to 
show that the checks completed by Madison were likely insufficient and that the lending 
wasnt appropriate for Mr S at the time. So, she upheld the complaint.
Mr S accepted the adjudicators findings, but Madison didnt respond to the view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for consideration.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our adjudicator. I will set out my reasons why 
below. 
Mr S has explained that three days prior to applying for the credit card with Madison he had 
applied for and was approved for a £2,000 loan with it. However, it doesnt appear that 
Madison included this lending in its calculations on the credit card affordability. We asked 
Madison about this in our initial investigation, but it didnt respond to the investigator at that 
time.
I also note that when Mr S applied for his credit card in February 2021, he already had three 
existing credit cards open with other credit providers. And his credit file indicates that these 
cards were at 97% of their combined limit. I also note from his credit file that in September, 
October, November and December had had exceeded the limit on two of the three existing 
credit cards.
And while Mr S was making at least the minimum repayments every month it does look like 
he was becoming quite reliant on credit. 
Mr S has also pointed out the fact that there were late payments to other credit providers as 
well as county court judgements (ccjs) registered on his credit file when he applied for both 
the loan and the credit card with Madison in 2021. However, the ccjs were from several 
years prior to this lending application and so I dont necessarily think Madison shouldve 
refused him credit on that basis alone.
That said I do think the fact that Mr S had 10 open lines of credit, three of which were 
already at their limit, and he had applied for and was given, £2,000 loan with Madison only 
three days prior to applying for this card shouldve alerted it to the fact that Mr S was 
becoming increasingly dependent on credit. 
All of which indicate that Mr S was likely to have problems sustaining the repayments on any 
additional form of credit at this point and shouldve stopped Madison from approving his 
application.  
Therefore, I dont think Madison shouldve provided Mr S with the credit card in February 
2021. There were obvious signs of him becoming overly dependent on credit and the fact 
that it had just provided him with a sizeable loan repayable over 18 months shouldve given it 
cause to review his application in more detail. 
While it may have appeared affordable on basic checks, there was enough evidence of 
existing stress for Madison to have taken a closer look at Mrs S circumstances and I think if 
it had done that it wouldve realised he was already beginning to struggle with his finances 
and providing him with additional credit was likely to cause him further problems. 
For these reasons I uphold Mr S complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Madison should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr S credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Madison should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once Mr S has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from their 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr S complaint against Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman