DRN-3997316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say that they were misled about the terms of a holiday package and that they 
were not provided with what they agreed to buy. Because the package was paid for with Mr 
Ps credit card, issued by Santander UK Plc, he says that he has a claim against the bank in 
the same way as against the supplier.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have been members of RCI, a holiday club and timeshare provider, for many 
years. In August 2016 RCI contacted them with what it said was a special offer, only 
available to long-term members. For a payment of £2,199 Mr and Mrs P were told they could 
buy a package comprising a cruise, a stay at a resort, and five hotel discount vouchers.
Mr and Mrs P agreed to buy the package and paid a deposit with Mr Ps credit card. The 
balance was to be paid in instalments over 12 months, although Mr and Mrs P arranged to 
defer those payments and in the event paid a little less than £2,000 in total. The cruise and 
resort elements of the package had to be used within three years.
Mr and Mrs P said that they could not book the cruise at the price they thought they had 
agreed. In the event they booked a seven-night cruise in July 2018, starting and finishing in 
Venice. However, they could only do so by paying an additional £390 per person, for four 
people. They did not however take the cruise, since they believed that the terms were not 
what they had been led to believe they would be.    
Mr and Mrs P complained to RCI and then to Santander  which, they said, was equally 
liable with RCI for the misrepresentation of the package and/or for breach of contract. They 
said they had paid nearly £2,000 in total but had received nothing for their money.
Santander did not accept that it had any liability to Mr P. It said the contract had been for the 
purchase of vouchers, which had been provided, not for a cruise.
Mr and Mrs P referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. She did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P did 
not accept her assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
My provisional decision
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. Im satisfied the 
conditions above were met in this case. That means that, if Mr and Mrs P have a valid claim 
against RCI, Mr P has a similar claim against Santander.
However, the credit card account was in Mr Ps name, so only he is eligible to bring this 
complaint. Where I refer to his evidence and arguments, I include those made on his behalf 
 either by Mrs P or by their representative.
Mr Ps case relies almost entirely on what Mrs P was told in the telephone call on 11 August 
2016  when they agreed to buy the holiday package. I have listened to the recording of that 
call in order to ascertain (i) what they agreed to buy and (ii) what else they were told to 
persuade them to buy the package. I have then considered whether Mr and Mrs P were 
supplied with what they agreed to buy and whether they were told anything that was not true 
and which induced them into the purchase.
I summarise below the main points which are relevant to this case. I have focused on what 
was said about the cruise element of the package, since that is what has led to this 
complaint.
The package was only being made available to certain RCI members and was a one-off 
promotion.
It comprised three elements  a 7-day cruise, 7 days at a resort, and five hotel discount 
vouchers.
Clients had 18 months in which to book and three years in which to use the first two 
elements. Hotel discounts were available for five years, and would be between 30% and 
50%.
The total cost for all three elements was £2,199. That included four people on the cruise 
(in two cabins) and up to six people for the resort element.
Payment of a deposit of £99 would secure the package, and the balance could be paid 
over 12 months.
The cruise element was for four adults. All meals and entertainment were included, 
although alcoholic drinks were extra. Customers would have to pay for flights (if [the 
cruise was] not leaving from the UK), but RCI could help to arrange them.
Cruises were available worldwide  including in the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, 
Norway and the Baltic.
Port taxes would be extra, and the amount would vary, depending on local rules. They 
would be £80 to £120 per person per week.  
All cabins would be above sea level. The minimum level of cabin would be an inside 
cabin, but upgrades were available, and sometimes they would be free. Sometimes hot 
deals would be offered, and they could include a cabin with a balcony.
Mr and Mrs P were offered additional incentives to sign up immediately, including a choice of 
a case of wine or a further 6-night holiday, on an accommodation-only basis. They were also 
offered a three-month deferment of the first instalment. They agreed to buy the package, and 
Mr P paid the deposit using his credit card.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs P took a cruise with their two children. The itinerary records that 
they booked balcony cabins and that they paid £390 per person - £400 deposit in September 
2017 and £1,110 due by the end of March 2018. That figure takes into account a holiday cash credit from RCI. The itinerary also notes that their Premium Cruise Voucher was 
redeemed.
Mr and Mrs P say that they should not have had to pay anything more for the cruise (other 
than port fees), since it was included in the package they bought for £2,199.
I do not agree that Mr P bought a cruise for a fixed price of £2,199 but has received nothing. 
Neither do I agree with the banks analysis that he bought vouchers, which were supplied. 
Rather, he bought a package for £2,199, the details of which were to be arranged at a later 
date. The package included a one-week cruise for four people.
There was some discussion in the telephone call of 11 August 2016 about the standard of 
accommodation that was included in the cruise element of the package. Mrs P indicated that 
she would not be happy in a cabin with no windows. The RCI representative told her that 
upgrades were available. She explained that the minimum standard would be an inside 
cabin above sea level, but that sometimes outside cabins were available. There might be a 
supplement to pay, but sometimes free upgrades were available. The representatives 
manager said something similar to Mr P.
The RCI representative also said that  in respect of all three elements of the package  
there was full market availability. I take that to mean that that availability would be no more 
restricted than it would be for any other customer. Mr P has said that it was difficult to book  
a cruise which did not require paying for an accommodation upgrade, but I have not seen 
anything to suggest availability was any different for him than it would have been in the 
market generally.
The evidence indicates that Mr and Mrs P paid a supplement of £390 per person for an 
outside cabin with a balcony. The package did not guarantee an outside cabin. I think the 
RCI representative explained clearly that, whilst an outside cabin might be available and 
might be offered as a free upgrade, it was also possible that an upgrade would not be free. 
She also said that balcony cabins might be available as an upgrade.
I think it is also clear that the payment of £1,510 was not for the basic cruise; it was payment 
for an upgrade from an inside cabin  the minimum standard that was included  to an 
outside balcony cabin. The basic price of the cruise was met by the redemption of the cruise 
voucher.
I am satisfied therefore that Mr P did get what he paid for  a voucher he could exchange for 
a one-week cruise for four. The contract guaranteed an inside cabin, but Mr P upgraded and 
had to pay extra, as he was told might be the case.
I dont believe either that Mr P was misled about the standard of accommodation that was 
included. Whilst he and Mrs P were told that an outside cabin or a free upgrade might be 
available, it was made clear that a supplement might be charged.
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act can mean that a cardholder with a claim against a 
supplier has a like claim against a credit card provider. It is not for me to say whether Mr P 
has a claim against RCI, but I must have regard to section 75 in considering what is fair and 
reasonable. Mr Ps complaint in this case is that Santander did not deal fairly with his claim 
under section 75. In the circumstances, however, I think that it did.
My provisional decision was, therefore, not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision Santander said that it had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Mr Ps 
representative did not agree with my provisional conclusions and said, in summary: 
Mr and Mrs P did not take any cruise holiday, and the investigator did not make a 
finding that they did. My provisional decision was not therefore different in some 
respects from the conclusions reached by the investigator; it was completely different.  
Vouchers were not mentioned in the telephone call. That was a fundamental error.
No cruise was available for four people for seven nights at a cost of £2,199. The only 
way Mr and Mrs P could book a cruise was by paying a further £1,110, which they did 
not do.  
I said: Neither do I agree with the banks analysis that he bought vouchers, which were 
supplied. Rather, he bought a package for £2,199, the details of which were to be 
arranged at a later date. The package included a one-week cruise for four people. That 
contradicted what Santander said in its final response. 
Mr and Mrs P had been induced into the contract by the total sum due for the package.
Mr and Mrs P had no choice but to book the Venice cruise. They paid a deposit of £400 
but did not pay the balance of £1,110 and did not go on the cruise. 
No cruises were available for £2,199 and there was no full market availability at that 
price.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps complaint here is about Santanders decision to decline his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act. A claim under section 75 in this case depends on Mr P having a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against RCI. It is of course not for me to 
decide whether he does have such a claim, but section 75 is something I must take into 
account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I am grateful for the clarification that Mr and Mrs P did not in fact take the cruise in July 2018 
 even though they booked it and paid a deposit of £400. But the outcome here does not 
depend on whether they took the cruise; it depends on whether they were offered what was 
agreed or represented to them when they signed up to the package in August 2016. If they 
could have taken a cruise in line with what was agreed, but chose not to, a claim for breach 
of contract is unlikely to be successful. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I have listened to the recording of the call which led 
to Mr and Mrs Ps decision to buy the package. I accept that the cruise element of the 
package was important to them. I think however that it is also clear that Mrs P would only be 
interested in a cruise if an outside cabin was available. I think too that the RCI representative 
explained clearly that, whilst upgrades were generally available, there might be an additional 
cost involved. 
The cruise which Mr and Mrs P booked did therefore comply with what Mr and Mrs P were 
told they were buying. The only additional payments they were asked to make were for the 
cabin upgrades  which they had been told might apply. The invoice gave credit for the 
cruise element of the package they had bought in 2016. Had the balance been paid, I have 
no reason to think that Mr and Mrs P would not have been able to take the cruise with their 
children.That is not however the end of the matter. Mr Ps representative says that the only reason he 
and Mrs P booked the cruise was because it was impossible to book anything that did not 
require an additional payment. 
As I have indicated, however, Mrs P had indicated at the time of sale that she would not be 
interested in a cruise package with inside cabins. And the evidence from the time when she 
was investigating options indicates that only outside cabins were discussed. Mr and Mrs P 
have provided their notes of calls in May 2017. The discussions focus on the cost of cabin 
upgrades, which vary depending on the destination and season. It is clear however that Mrs 
P (with whom the calls take place) was expecting to pay something for an upgrade, although 
she was unhappy at the sums being quoted. It is not apparent however that there was any 
discussion about the availability of inside cabins. That concern was broadly reflected in 
subsequent correspondence with RCI. In the circumstances, I dont believe that I can fairly 
say that no cruises with inside cabin accommodation were available to Mr and Mrs P. 
I dont believe I can fairly conclude either that Mr and Mrs P were misled at the point of sale. 
Mrs P was told that an upgrade to an outside or balcony cabin might incur an additional cost. 
For similar reasons, I do not believe I can fairly conclude that there was not full market 
availability of cruises. All cruise packages are subject to availability, and I have no reason to 
think that the options available to Mr and Mrs P were any less than those available on the 
open market. 
Mr Ps representative said that there was no mention of vouchers in the initial telephone call. 
I agree with that. The point I made in my provisional decision was that the bank had declined 
the section 75 claim because Mr P had bought vouchers and had been supplied with them. I 
agree with the representative however that Mr P did not buy vouchers; he bought a package, 
comprising the three components I have described (I used the word elements in my 
provisional decision, but I dont believe there is any material difference). 
I note that the cruise invoice referred to a Voucher. I take that to mean a form of credit for 
the basic cruise booking, and I used the term in the same way. Mr and Mrs P did not 
however buy vouchers with a fixed monetary value which they could redeem against a 
booking. Rather, they bought a cruise (and other components of the package), the details of 
which they were to arrange at a later date. 
As I say, it is not for me to say whether Mr P has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against RCI or, therefore, a valid claim against Santander under section 
75. Those are matters which I must take into account in determining whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.         
Having done that, however, I agree that the bank was entitled to decline the section 75 
claim, albeit for reasons which  the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman