DRN-3539870
The complaint
Mr E complains that Gate Capital Group Ltd (Gate Capital) advised him to transfer his 
existing Defined Benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest with Beaufort Securities Discretionary Fund 
Management Service (Beaufort) and that hes lost out as a result of this. Hes raised 
concerns about the suitability of the transfer advice, the choice of provider and the 
subsequent investments made. 
What happened
Mr E was advised by Gate Capital to transfer his existing OPS to a SIPP and invest via a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), Beaufort. 
A fact-find was signed by Mr E on 25 September 2015. The prelude to the fact-find is a script 
this says:
Hello, my name is  and I am calling about the review of your pension plan.
I have to inform you that I am not the adviser. I am an administrator / para-pallner 
[sic] who is responsible for preparing the research and a report. I then give this report 
to the adviser [full name of Gate Capitals adviser].
We need to ensure that when we compare your pension and explore your options 
that any advice you are given is relevant and specific for you. I help prepare the 
report and then forward this to the adviser who will make a personal 
recommendation. The adviser may say that we cannot add value or it is not worth 
transferring your pension. I cannot give you that advice. I can only deal with factual 
information and not opinion.
The purpose of this call is to gather information about your personal and financial 
circumstances (Known as Fact-finding) and will include questions about your health, 
your income, the household expenditure and your assets and liabilities. This means 
we can make a tailored recommendation.
The call will take approximately 30 minutes to complete.
The fact-find had various sections covering issues that may be relevant to considering the 
merits of transferring ones OPS, such as desire for guaranteed income (this was qualified 
 although a secure and guaranteed retirement income is desirable, this is not your highest 
priority). The sections had pre-populated objectives to be ticked. For example, under the 
desire for guaranteed income section the selectable objectives were: 
Take the maximum available tax-free capital from your plan.
You would be prepared to sacrifice a guaranteed income for life in exchange for 
having control and flexibility to vary your income in retirement. 
Provide a benefit for your beneficiaries in the event of your death that allows them 
the flexibility and control to take these benefits in a tax efficient manner, depending 
on their circumstances at the time. 
Provide the opportunity to obtain a potential fund from your pension. 
Provide the facility to pass benefits to future generations in an Inheritance Tax 
efficient manner. 
You do not like the idea of the capital being lost in the event of your death.
You will accept a reasonable degree of risk and wish to defer annuity purchase and 
take full advantage of the flexibility gained by retaining control over your pension 
benefits. 
The annual income Mr E would like in retirement wasnt listed in the fact-find. It stated Mr E 
confirmed he wanted to explore taking benefits now. In relation to Mr Es personal pension 
there was a handwritten note saying:
The above [name of personal pension provider] plan has exit penalties, client 
doesnt want to take at the moment.
Its also confirmed that he wanted take benefits in order to release tax-free cash and that he 
wanted to withdraw the maximum he could take to help pay down his mortgage. 
A pension transfer analysis was prepared by Gate Capital on 23 September 2015. The 
critical yield required to match the scheme benefits assuming Mr E took benefits at 65 in the 
form of cash and a reduced single life pension was 7.6% and if Mr E took a full pension 
9.1%. Based on Mr E taking benefits at 60 the critical yield increased to 12.7% and 20.3% 
respectively. The critical yields based on benefits being taken on a joint life basis at 65 were 
11.2% and 9.9% respectively and at age 60 they were 26.3.% and 19.4% respectively.
These were based on the full transfer value of just under £128,000. 
A suitability report was subsequently issued. The suitability report set out that its focused on 
the merits of transferring Mr Es OPS only. Mr Es circumstances were described as: 
Employed
Aged 57 
In good health 
Income of around £55,000
Outstanding interest-only mortgage of £118,000 due in March 2016
Intended retirement at age 65
Personal pension valued at £229,511
Approximate income required in retirement £11,000
Some of Mr Es objectives, amongst others, were listed as:
You are not seeking to retire at this time but would like to take benefits from your 
[name of OPS] pension plan. You have a shortfall in your mortgage in March 2016 of 
£68,000. Your outstanding mortgage is £118,000 and your endowment is due to 
mature with a value of £50,000. You wish to repay as much of your mortgage as 
possible to clear this debt and reduce your outgoings.
To be able to vary his pension income each year depending on his needs.
Whilst valuable these benefits dont represent a major proportion of his retirement 
portfolio.
For death benefits to be payable to his beneficiaries and them to have the freedom to 
choose how these are taken.He didnt want capital to be lost in the event of his death. 
Although a secure and guaranteed retirement income is desirable, this wasnt Mr Es 
highest priority. He was willing to forego these to be able to control and take benefits 
flexibly.
He wanted to retire at 65 without suffering a penalty.
Mr Es risk profile was assessed to be balanced based on his risk profile and capacity for 
loss. 
The report also states: 
You confirmed that these assets are an important part of your planning for a 
long term sustainable retirement income in the future. However, you are willing to 
put them at risk, in exchange for potential growth and confirmed that you can afford 
to lose an element of these assets without it having a significant impact on your 
standard of basic living in retirement. [my emphasis]
And 
Appendix 1 contains an actuarial report, prepared for you, which contains our full 
pension analysis and appraisal in relation to your present arrangements. We have 
already discussed this with you, and would refer you to this section for confirmation 
of figures.
In relation to the critical yield the report explains: 
The critical yield has been calculated assuming that the Retail Price Index (RPI) 
increases at a rate of 2.5% per annum. This means that the Critical Yield implies that 
a real rate of return of 8.7% p.a. over inflation (based on RPI as a worst case 
scenario) will be necessary for an individual pension to match the benefits of your 
former employer's scheme.
And 
The key question, which needs to be answered, is whether or not a real rate of 
return of 8.7% is achievable or not. Our expectation for an investor with your risk 
profile is that a 2.69% average growth rate is realistically expected in the longer 
term.
It was noted that there was a penalty for accessing Mr Es other pension and that, upon 
discussion with the adviser who looked after that pension, it was deemed too large. 
In relation to Mr Es expenditure it stated: 
Your current core household expenditure is £1,429 per month.
You have stated that your 'core' expenditure will change because you will repay your 
mortgage in 2016. You expect your 'core' household expenditure to be £879 each 
month.
The report goes on to explain the various options available to Mr E and dismisses each in 
turn apart from flexi-access drawdown, which it concludes best meets his objectives. 
Under summary of recommendations the report notes that:The Critical Yield of 11.2% per annum is above that which would be considered 
realistically achievable and our normal recommendation would be that you leave your 
benefits with your former employer's scheme for this reason as well. Any yield that 
exceeds 5.79% would lead us to recommend not transferring your benefits.
Under funds recommended it says:
Taking into account your capacity for loss and your attitude towards risk, I 
recommended that you invest 100% in the Beaufort Securities Discretionary Fund 
Management Service to cover ongoing policy costs. I have made these 
recommendations because of the following reasons
Gate Capitals fee was listed as £2,871. 
Mr E signed a declaration confirming hed read and understood the contents of the report on 
2 October 2015. 
Mr Es OPS was transferred and on 24 November 2015 just under £92,000 was invested 
with Beaufort. The funds were subsequently invested as followed: 
Aegis Power Bond (No 1) Plc 10% Debentures 2025 £1 per unit (1 December 2015, 
£7,573.25)
Carduus Housing Plc 6.25% Unsecured 2020 (15 December 2015, £33,381.88)
NQ Minerals Plc Ordinary Shares of GBP 0.001 (22 December 2015, £1,217.75)
Silex Plc 8% SECD BDS 31/12/20 EUR 1 (4 February 2016, £62,458) 
Based on what Mr Es told us he did use his tax-free cash towards repaying his interest-only 
mortgage.
On 16 October 2017, Gate Capital wrote to Mr E informing him that his adviser was no 
longer an appointed representative of it and offered to review Mr Es portfolio. 
Beaufort subsequently wrote to its investors about concerns identified regarding the 
systems and controls and saying that we have agreed with the FCA that it is desirable in 
the interests of our customers for us to cease our DFM business. There had been 
allegations of fraud concerning the conduct of Beauforts employees and the UK regulator 
(the Financial Conduct Authority) later ordered its assets be frozen in March 2018.
Background to the complaint
Mr E complained to Gate Capital about the suitability of its advice, it didnt uphold his 
complaint. Briefly, it said: 
The original advice was correct, justified and in accordance with Mr Es objectives. 
The advisers assessment of his circumstances was based on information provided 
by Mr E and the business which introduced him to Gate Capital. 
Critical Yield calculated in real terms was 8.7% p.a. The expectation for an investor 
with his risk profile was recorded as 2.69% p.a. But, his objective to repay his 
mortgage outweighed this. 
It wasnt responsible for how Mr Es pension was invested. The fund was under the 
discretionary management of Beaufort.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary he found: The advice to transfer Mr Es pension wasnt suitable, his objective of paying off his 
interest-only mortgage couldve been met by other means and these werent 
sufficiently explored.
The use of a DFM wasnt suitable for Mr E. 
Its not clear why Gate Capital chose Beaufort as the DFM above other more 
established providers. 
Gate Capital didnt ensure that the manner in which Mr Es pension would be 
invested was suitable  and, the manner in which it was invested was clearly 
unsuitable. 
Mr E accepted our investigators findings. Gate Capital disagreed and made further 
submissions in support of its position. Ive read and considered these submissions in their 
entirety, here Ive included a summary of what I think are the key points:
During a conversation with Mr E about his complaint, he told Gate Capital that hed 
been receiving assistance from a Mr S, an adviser with a different business, and that 
he would supply Gate Capital with some paperwork.
Gate Capitals records indicate that Mr E was introduced to it by Mr S.
Mr S met with Mr E on 25 September 2015, where he completed a fact-find and 
discussed Mr Es attitude to risk and capacity for loss. This information was used to 
assess the suitability of transferring Mr Es OPS. 
Mr S wouldve explained the report and strategy with him.
Gate Capital took into full consideration Mr Es circumstances and requirements as 
agreed with Mr S.
Leaving the scheme where it was wouldnt have met Mr Es requirements as he 
wanted to access his benefits immediately. 
He was told that by retaining his OPS he would have a higher income in retirement.
An annuity purchase was discounted because Mr E wouldve lost control over how he 
could take income in the future and of the flexibility in the event of his death for his 
wife and children, the income would also have added to his taxable income. 
The critical yield was documented in the suitability report which was discussed with 
Mr E. The report detailed that Gate Capital wouldnt recommend a transfer where the 
critical yield was in excess of 5.79% but that Mr E placed less importance on this 
because he needed access to benefits immediately. 
Mr E had a pension with another provider being looked after by Mr S, who advised 
him that there was a penalty for accessing the pension, the suitability report 
suggested Mr E speak to that adviser again about this option.
The transfer was the only option that met all of Mr Es objectives. 
Gate Capital carried out the necessary due diligence on Beaufort, it was a FCA 
regulated firm and award-winning DFM with millions of pounds under management. 
It had offerings across the spectrum of risk, a brochure explaining the offerings was 
provided to Mr E.
Gate Capital had no influence or say as to what Beaufort invested Mr E in, its stated 
strategy was to invest in ETFs and a range of regulated investments.
Beaufort was chosen because they were competitively priced and offered a bespoke 
portfolio construction service. Gate Capital had no reason to believe at the time that 
Beaufort wouldnt honour the mandate or would mismanage Mr Es funds. 
Our investigator reviewed Gate Capitals response to his view and wrote to it explaining that 
its submissions didnt change his view of the complaint and, in summary, said:
Mr E couldve accessed tax-free cash from his other pension (which wasnt a defined 
benefit scheme) to help pay down his outstanding mortgage. There isnt enough detail in the suitability report to establish how much income Mr E 
would require in retirement.
Based on the forecasts provided, if Mr E withdrew an income from his new pension 
his fund wouldve depleted by the time he turned 86, which shows the risk he was 
taking by moving his pension. 
Gate Capital hadnt been able to demonstrate how it selected Beaufort over other 
DFMs in the market. No documented due diligence showing the criteria used to 
select Beaufort over other longer established DFMs had been provided. 
Mr E was invested in two high-risk bonds and one high-risk debenture, these dont 
match the investment strategy Gate Capital described as being the reason Beaufort 
was chosen. 
The investments were clearly not suitable for Mr E and he wouldnt have gone ahead 
had he understood that he could lose most or all of his pension fund. 
Despite some involvement from Mr S, Gate Capital was responsible for the advice to 
transfer and subsequently invest through Beaufort. 
In line with its responsibilities, Gate Capital couldnt advise on/only consider the 
transfer in isolation, it had to consider the suitability of the intended investment upon 
transfer. 
Gate Capitals representatives disagreed and asked that the complaint be referred for an 
ombudsman to review but made no further submissions. I sent Mr E and Gate Capital my 
provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be upheld. Mr E didnt 
make any further submissions. Gate Capital sent us emails exchanged around the time of 
the sale, I explained why I didnt think these changed my findings about the complaint and, 
ultimately, Gate Capital accepted my provisional decision. My findings remain as set out in 
my provisional decision Ive largely reiterated these below. 
In its submissions on this complaint Gate Capital referenced a Beaufort brochure and 
information about the funds offered. We havent been provided with either in this case, but 
Gate Capital has submitted a brochure and a fund factsheet on other cases. Ive taken these 
into account in this case in order to properly assess the arguments its made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that thebusiness has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
What was Gate Capitals role in the transaction?
Its not in dispute that Gate Capital advised Mr E to transfer his OPS to a SIPP and invest via 
a DFM (Beaufort). This means it was responsible for assessing the suitability of: 
The OPS transfer itself 
The SIPP 
The use of a DFM service in principle 
The use of the chosen DFM provider (Beaufort) 
The suitability of the investment proposition 
Gate Capital appears to broadly accept that it was responsible for the suitability of the 
transfer advice, use of a DFM and the selection of Beaufort. However, it maintains that the 
transfer was suitable in light of Mr Es objectives and wider circumstances, the use of 
Beauforts DFM service was suitable and that it conducted sufficient due diligence into 
Beaufort itself. But it doesnt accept responsibility for the suitability of the subsequent 
investments made, in light of Beauforts role as DFM. 
Ill address the suitability of the transfer to a SIPP and use of a DFM in detail in the next 
section of this decision. First, Ill clarify what I think Gate Capitals responsibilities reasonably 
were in respect of due diligence into Beaufort and the suitability of the investment 
proposition considering its role in this transaction. 
In July 2012 the former regulator (FSA) issued finalised guidance on assessing suitability of 
centralised investment propositions (such as DFM). This set out that even if an advice firm 
adopted a proposition created by a third party, it must conduct adequate due diligence to 
ensure the proposition is likely to be suitable for its target clients and met their needs and 
objectives. There was a non-exhaustive list of features to consider: including charges; 
reputation and financial standing; type of underlying assets in which the proposition invests; 
and the DFMs own approach to undertaking due diligence on those investments.
The FSA further said that a personal recommendation should be based on the reasonable 
belief that a client has the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the nature of 
the risks of the underlying investments held in the proposition. It also warned against the use 
of risk-rated portfolios without checking that the underlying investments aligned accurately 
with the risk descriptions used  and, went on to say:
Where a firm refers investment selections to a discretionary manager, both the 
introducing firm and the discretionary management firm have obligations to ensure 
that a personal recommendation or a decision to trade is suitable for the client. The 
obligations on each party will depend upon the nature and extent of the 
respective service provided. Both parties should be clear on their respective 
service, and ensure they meet the corresponding suitability obligations. If 
either or both parties are not clear, there is a risk that clients may receive 
unsuitable advice and/or have their portfolios managed inappropriately. [my 
emphasis]
To successfully hand over part of the responsibility of assessing suitability of Mr Es 
portfolio to Beaufort, there was an overarching responsibility on Gate Capital to ensure that 
the respective obligations of both firms were agreed and understood. That was also highlighted in contemporaneous good practice guides published by the Personal Finance 
Society (PFS). 
Taking all of this into account, like the investigator, I think Gate Capitals responsibilities went 
beyond what it appears to have accepted and that it did bear responsibility for the suitability 
of the investment proposition. In terms of understanding and agreeing how Beaufort would 
invest Mr Es monies and ensuring that the proposition was aligned with Mr Es attitude to 
risk and capacity for loss in line with its own assessment.  
In this instance, I havent seen any evidence that Gate Capital met these obligations. Or, 
indeed, took any steps whatsoever to ensure Mr Es pension would be suitably invested. 
Even the limited literature weve seen from Beaufort, that Gate Capital apparently had regard 
to, ought to have been concerning. I note, for example, from a medium risk portfolio 
factsheet provided on other cases weve seen that Beaufort had a very wide discretion as to 
what it would hold in a medium risk portfolio. 
The typical asset allocation from which a supposed 15% limit in corporate bonds can be 
assumed, the accompanying description makes clear what freedom Beaufort had in 
selecting the bonds:
The fund will take an unconstrained approach to investing in high yielding corporate 
debt, investment grade debt, global equity and highly liquid money market 
instruments. The management team will have the flexibility to switch between high 
yielding, investment grade and money market dependent upon the macro economic 
outlook.
There is clearly a difference between high yielding (non-investment grade) debt and 
investment grade debt  the former has high yields in direct relation to the higher risk of 
default and therefore loss of the investors capital. Already this description suggests Beaufort 
had the freedom to fill this typical 15% bond allocation up with non-investment grade debt. 
But on page two its then also clear that 15% is not a limit, as the following target asset 
allocation ranges are given: 
Fixed Income 0%-60% 
Alternatives 0%-35% 
Equity 0%-60% 
Multi Asset 0%-15% 
Commodities 0%-15% 
Money Market & Cash 0%-100% 
So, the upper limit for investing in potentially non-investment grade debt (which would 
appear to correspond to fixed income) was 60%.  
I think Gate shouldve anticipated there would be a problem if Beaufort used its freedom to 
this extent for a medium/balanced risk investor like Mr E. It wouldnt represent a medium 
risk, balanced, approach to have a significant part of the portfolio invested in high-yield (and 
therefore high-risk) debt.
Having set out Gate Capitals responsibilities considering its role in the activities that are the 
subject of this complaint  and highlighted some of my concerns about its fulfilment of its 
duties in conducting due diligence on Beaufort and ensuring the suitability of the investment 
proposition  Ive gone on to consider the suitability of the advice. Was the advice suitable?
Gate Capital was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include 
the overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties Gate Capital had to know its client, act in his best 
interests and give suitable advice.
In relation to advising on OPS transfers, COBS 19.1.6 G states that:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests.
So, as the investigator set out, the starting point when advising on OPS transfers is that the 
transfer isnt suitable. 
Gate Capital did take some steps to know its client. Taking into account what we do know 
about Mr Es circumstances and the critical yield required to just match the benefits, I dont 
think its been demonstrated that the transfer was suitable. 
Mr E completed a fact-find, Gate Capital says this was completed with an adviser with a 
different business, but I think the fact-find was Gate Capitals. In sections of the fact-find, an 
example of which I set out in the background to this complaint, it asks what I think are 
somewhat leading questions to which most people would answer yes. For example, wanting 
flexibility, control, the best death benefits, the highest growth, wanting better service than his 
current plans provided, and not wanting to suffer penalties when retiring early. 
There was no context offered for these comments   in terms of the guarantees the OPS 
offered (which couldnt directly be compared with an investment that grew in value); or what 
flexibility or control Mr E actually required at that time beyond access to tax-free cash. 
Mr Es main objective appears to have been to access funds  by way of tax-free cash  to 
help pay off the balance of his interest-only mortgage. Given what Mr Es told us and the fact 
that hes ultimately used the tax-free cash towards paying off his interest-only mortgage, I 
think this was a genuine and compelling objective for him. 
Mr E had another pension, which wasnt a defined benefit scheme with valuable guarantees. 
Accessing this to fund the repayment of his mortgage was effectively discounted on the 
basis that an exit charge wouldve applied. Gate Capital recommended that Mr E discuss 
this further with the adviser looking after that pension but, ultimately, it recommended that he 
transfer his OPS. I dont think Gate Capital did enough by suggesting Mr E discuss 
accessing his personal pension particularly when it had already recommended that he 
transfer out of his OPS. There were other ways that Mr E couldve funded the repayment of 
his mortgage, that would likely not have been unsuitable and didnt involve giving up 
valuable guaranteed benefits. Indeed, the tax-free cash available under his personal pension 
wouldve been significantly higher. 
We dont have details of the exit penalty applicable in Mr Es circumstances because Gate 
Capital never explored this. Im not sure that a penalty wouldve applied to him accessing funds rather than transferring funds away to another provider. If it did, Im not persuaded it 
was such that it was better to, or suitable for, Mr E to transfer his OPS. 
It may not have been open to Gate Capital to provide a recommendation in respect of Mr Es 
personal pension under the circumstances but it certainly was open to it to conclude that 
transferring his defined benefit OPS for this purpose  given Mr Es circumstances  wasnt 
suitable and, in turn, recommend against this course of action. 
Flexibility in taking benefits and death benefits that his elected beneficiaries could benefit 
from were also both listed as objectives. At the time of the advice Mr E had both a defined 
benefit scheme (the OPS that was transferred) and a defined contribution personal pension. 
To the extent that he might not choose to draw on all his pensions at the same time, it 
wouldve made sense for him to be able to rely on some benefits which were guaranteed  
as his other pension wasnt. Also, the other pension already provided a return of fund on his 
death which his elected beneficiaries could benefit from, whereas the OPS pension didnt. 
So, at the time, the combination of his pension provisions couldve afforded him some 
flexibility. 
I dont think transferring his OPS was suitable for Mr E, so I dont think the transfer shouldve 
gone ahead at all. It hasnt been suggested that Mr E was an insistent client or that he was 
otherwise likely to go against suitable advice from his adviser. But, for the sake of 
completeness, Ive considered this  and, I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude that Mr E was likely to disregard suitable advice. I find that Mr E wouldnt have 
transferred his defined benefit OPS had Gate Capital provided suitable, clear and 
appropriate advice.  
As a starting point Ive found that the advice for Mr E to transfer his OPS wasnt suitable and 
that, if suitable advice had been given, the transfer most likely wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Ive also considered the suitability of the use of a DFM. 
Gate Capital concluded that a suitable risk profile for Mr E in relation to his pension was 
balanced. The suitability report noted the Mr E had confirmed that these assets were:
an important part of your planning for a long term sustainable retirement income in 
the future. However, you are willing to put them at risk, in exchange for potential 
growth and confirmed that you can afford to lose an element of these assets without 
it having a significant impact on your standard of basic living in retirement.
Whilst Mr E arguably had an up to a medium attitude to risk overall, the risk he could afford 
to take on his former OPS was in my view limited by two things. The fund available for 
investing would be significantly reduced by him accessing a 25% tax-free cash sum towards 
paying off the balance of his interest-only mortgage upon transfer. And, secondly, as hed 
relinquished the guarantees of the OPS, the need to replicate some more security with part 
of his overall pension provision.
In relation to the recommendation to invest via Beaufort, the suitability report states: 
Taking into account your capacity for loss and your attitude towards risk, I 
recommended that you invest 100% in the Beaufort Securities Discretionary Fund 
Management Service to cover ongoing policy costs. I have made these 
recommendations because of the following: 
You would like funds that match your attitude to risk 
You like the simplicity of having highly sophisticated fund managers managing 
your pensions on your behalfYoure investing for at least a medium term (approximately 5 to 10 years)
You would like a proportion of your portfolio not invested in equities, but to still 
have the capacity for good potential returns. At the same time reducing your 
overall portfolio volatility. 
Please see the Appendix 3 for the further details of the recommended funds and 
Discretionary Fund Management Service. 
There appears to have been some confusion within the suitability report as to what was the 
content of Appendix 3. The appendices are listed at the beginning and the end of the 
suitability report, both list these as: 
Appendix 1 (Transfer Value Analysis Report)
Appendix 2 (Retirement Options Report) 
Appendix 3 (Risk Definition) 
Appendix 4 (Investment Details) 
Appendix 5 (One Document Containing): 
oPension Legislation 
oPension Product 
oDefinition of Charges 
oInvestment Diversification 
oProduct Inherent Risk 
Based on this it seems likely that the information referenced was more likely in Appendix 4. 
Regardless, weve not been provided with a copy of the information provided to Mr E in this 
case. Theres no mention within the suitability report as to how Mr Es fund was to be 
invested and no express recommendation as to which specific fund or portfolio was 
suitable/had been selected.
On balance Im not satisfied that a recommendation to use DFM was warranted here. In 
effect Mr E neither had the fund size nor tolerance for risk for the use of a DFM to potentially 
be suitable.
Gate Capital hasnt been able to satisfactorily demonstrate how it selected Beaufort as the 
DFM over the range of other DFMs in the market  some of which I think wouldve been 
cheaper than Beaufort, and many of which wouldve had risk-rated portfolios established 
long before Beauforts. 
In response to our investigators view Gate Capital stated that Beaufort had offerings across 
the risk scale including balanced and a brochure explaining their offerings was provided to 
[Mr Es name] prior to his decision whether to invest or not. 
It also said: 
BDFM stated that it had adopted and was following an investment strategy of trading 
on behalf of investors by purchasing Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and a range of 
recognised regulated investments. BDFM also stated that capital preservation was 
key to their strategy.
And
BDFM are fully responsible for what they have bought and are culpable if they did 
not follow the spirit and rules associated with the mandate, they presented to GC and 
[Mr Es name] for a balanced portfolio.And 
The information that Beaufort Securities had provided was plausible and outlined a 
strategy and ethos that was in line with both GCs and [Mr Es name] own attitude to 
risk.
Its concerning that Gate Capital makes no mention in its suitability report of the typical 
assets in which Mr E would be invested. It simply says Beaufort Securities Discretionary 
Fund Management Service and refers Mr E to an Appendix, as mentioned above, we havent 
been provided with a copy of this. 
As part of his duty of care to Mr E and the requirement to ensure his advice was suitable 
under COBS 9.2, I wouldve expected the adviser to ensure he clearly stated to Beaufort 
what Mr Es attitude to risk was  and ensured he (the adviser) was familiar with the typical 
asset mix or model portfolio that Beaufort would use for that attitude to risk. No information 
has been provided as to what attitude to risk the intended portfolio aligned to, what the 
investment proposition was likely to look like in detail or, indeed, how Gate Capital 
communicated Mr Es attitude to risk to Beaufort. Without this its not clear how Gate Capital 
could possibly ensure that the recommendation to invest via Beaufort was suitable.  
I would expect the adviser to have checked that the portfolio Mr E went into was broadly 
what he expected it to be, as the adviser had the overarching duty to ensure that the entire 
pension transfer was suitable under COBS 9.2. In my view the initial investments into high 
risk investments shouldve caused immediate concern. I dont think that the nomination of a 
DFM absolved Gate Capital of all responsibility to oversee this process, given its suitability 
obligations and the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1).
Im also concerned that theres also no evidence of what instructions the adviser actually 
gave to Beaufort to manage Mr Es funds. 
If Gate Capital had carried out adequate due diligence into where existing clients in 
Beauforts relevant model portfolios were being invested, it would likely have established the 
presence of investments like those Mr Es pension funds went into, or similar  as they 
appear frequently in other cases the ombudsman service has seen. Alternatively, it 
shouldve been just as concerning if Gate Capital had been unable to find out what the 
existing investments in the portfolio looked like  and theres certainly no evidence that it did 
find out.
In summary Ive found that: 
The advice to transfer Mr Es OPS wasnt suitable. 
If suitable advice had been given, Mr E would most likely have retained his OPS. 
The use of a DFM wasnt suitable for Mr E. 
Gate Capital didnt undertake sufficient due diligence in respect of Beaufort and didnt 
take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr Es fund would be suitably invested. 
So, I think that Mr Es complaint should be upheld and that but for Gate Capitals unsuitable 
advice he wouldve retained his OPS. As a starting point, therefore, I think that Gate Capital 
should compensate Mr E in full for any losses hes suffered as a result of transferring his 
OPS. Ive gone on to consider Gate Capitals arguments relating to the role of other parties 
involved in the transaction and subsequently, and apportionment of redress. 
The involvement of other parties in the transactionIve carefully considered the role of all of the relevant parties involved in the transaction 
thats the subject of this complaint and subsequently. 
Gate Capital submitted in response to the investigators view that:
Beaufort had discretion to manage Mr Es investment, was responsible for the 
suitability of the investments made and is at least partly responsible for Mr Es 
losses.
We need to take into account Mr S role in relation to the transaction and that of Gate 
Capitals adviser who gave advice in this instance, Mr F, after he left Gate Capital. 
Any advice Mr E later received should be considered. 
I recognise that it can be argued Beauforts actions may have also separately caused some 
of the overall loss Mr E suffered. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of 
the responsibility for compensating the loss to Gate Capital.
In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole loss against Gate 
Capital. Gate Capital alone (as the advising firm at the time) couldve intervened to prevent 
the losses Mr E has experienced. As a starting point, Ive found that the transfer of Mr Es 
OPS was unsuitable. If suitable advice had been given, Mr Es OPS wouldve been retained 
and wouldnt have been available to invest via a DFM at all. 
Further, Gate Capital placed Mr E in the DFM portfolio in the first place when I dont consider 
this wouldve been likely to benefit Mr E even if it had been managed appropriately. Gate 
Capital acted with a complete disregard for Mr Es interests, in recommending the transfer of 
his OPS scheme, recommending the use of a DFM and in failing to ensure that Mr Es funds 
were going to be suitably managed by Beaufort to an agreed attitude to risk. That provides 
further grounds for me to say that Mr E wouldnt have been exposed to the possibility of 
wrongdoing at Beaufort if Gate Capital had suitably advised him.
Theres no doubt Gate Capital was responsible for ensuring the initial suitability of the 
portfolio being recommended in line with the regulators rules, guidance and industry best 
practice. That the investments were made flows directly as a consequence of Gate Capitals 
poor advice and lack of due diligence into how the portfolio would be managed.
I acknowledge that Mr S, of a different advisory firm may have assisted Mr E with paperwork 
but, ultimately, Gate Capital was the advisory firm in relation to this transaction complained 
about and was responsible for the suitability of its advice. 
Gate Capital has said it thinks that the ongoing service of Mr Es pension moved to its 
advisers new firm after he left. I havent been provided with any evidence of this or of 
ongoing reviews taking place. Given the nature of the investments made, Im not convinced 
that any attempt to rectify the position wouldve been successful. These were likely to have 
been illiquid after initial investment, they werent commonly traded investments, and, in my 
view, they had a limited market. 
Its possible that Mr E could pursue claims against the other parties involved in this 
transaction, I dont know if any potential claim is likely to be successful  but, as part of 
considering Gate Capitals argument for apportionment, I considered this possibility. 
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont make a payment to Mr E if a third 
party could also be held liable. This means an apportionment of only part of Mr Es losses to 
Gate Capital could leave Mr E out of pocket. Given that Mr E wouldnt have lost out at all but 
for Gate Capitals failings in this case, I dont think that would be a fair outcome. Overall, like the investigator, Im satisfied that holding Gate Capital responsible for all of Mr Es losses as 
result of the transfer and subsequent investments is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
However, in my award Im going to allow for the possibility that Mr E pursues claims against 
any other parties to this transaction and the FSCS both pays Mr E compensation which 
takes him over the total loss hes suffered, and doesnt seek to recover this. Gate Capital 
may ask Mr E to provide an undertaking to repay Gate Capital any of the total compensation 
that he receives which exceeds the total losses that hes suffered, as calculated below.
In conclusion, for the complaint Im being asked to consider against Gate Capital, Im 
satisfied that the advisers failures in providing unsuitable advice to transfer, unsuitable 
advice to invest via a DFM, failure to undertake sufficient due diligence in respect of Beaufort 
and failure to ensure that Mr Es funds would be invested suitably were Gate Capitals 
responsibilities. 
Had it not been for those errors by Gate Capitals adviser, I consider the transfer wouldnt 
have happened at all and Mr E would never have invested with Beaufort  and, in turn, Mr E 
wouldnt have gone on to suffer the losses hes suffered. So, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Gate Capital to meet all of the losses Mr E has suffered as a result of the 
transfer and subsequent investment with Beaufort. In addition to the financial losses 
suffered, I think the loss of a substantial proportion of his pension provision wouldve caused 
Mr E distress and upset and I think Gate Capital should compensate him for this as well.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Gate Capital to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for what I consider to be its unsuitable advice. 
I consider that, but for Gate Capitals failure, Mr E wouldnt have transferred from his existing 
defined benefit OPS.
In light of this Gate Capital should:
Calculate the loss Mr E has suffered as a result of transferring his OPS.
Take ownership of the illiquid investments held in his pension, if possible.
Pay to Mr E £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Ill explain how Gate Capital should carry out these calculations in further detail below:
Calculate the loss Mr E has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Gate Capital must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
 
Gate Capital may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
Gate Capital receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Gate Capital to pay Mr E.
 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Take ownership of the illiquid investments held in Mr Es SIPP.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the investments need to 
be removed from the SIPP. To do this Gate Capital should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be taken into account for the loss calculation.
If Gate Capital is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, the value of them should 
be assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Mr E is compensated in full, Gate Capital may ask him to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investments. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr E may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Gate Capital will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Gate Capital taking over the investments. 
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Gate Capital pay Mr E an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Trouble and upsetI also think Mr E has been caused significant distress and inconvenience as a result of Gate 
Capitals actions. The sudden loss of a significant portion of his pension fund wouldve come 
as a shock to him and has clearly had a significant impact. I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Gate Capital to pay to Mr E £500 in compensation for this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: 
I require Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Gate 
Capital Group Ltd to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Gate Capital 
Group Ltd to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: 
If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that Gate Capital Group 
Ltd pays Mr E the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
Given the possibility that Mr E may pursue other parties in respect of this transaction and 
that, if he makes a claim to them, the FSCS may award compensation to Mr E, Gate Capital 
Group Ltd may also require Mr E to provide an undertaking to repay Gate Capital Group Ltd 
any of the total compensation that he receives  and is entitled to retain  which exceeds the 
total losses that hes suffered, as calculated above.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Gate Capital Group Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on Gate Capital Group Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint. I direct Gate Capital Group Ltd to 
compensate Mr E as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman