DRN-3419231
The complaint
Mr H complains that the information provided to him by Crowdcube Capital Limited about an 
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform was misleading. He says 
had he of known that the information within the promotion was unsubstantiated, he wouldn't 
have invested.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr H made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform between late 2017 and early 2018. The pitch for 
the crowdfunding campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Mr H invested in Company A during this fundraising round and as Company A
substantially surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed in January
2018 and he was allocated shares.
Company A contacted Mr H in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model. But in 
May 2020, Company A entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up 
resolution being passed by its members.
In June 2021, Mr H raised concerns with Crowdcube and requested he was compensated 
for losses he had suffered.
 
Crowdcube informed our service it didnt think it had done anything wrong when promoting 
the investment opportunity on its platform. In summary it said:
- It conducted adequate due diligence when verifying the pitch and presenting the 
information. And whilst it endeavours to ensure information presented on a pitch is 
accurate, this is company led and therefore cannot guarantee the validity of all 
statements contained in a pitch. 
- Mr H says he invested on the basis that Company A would be opening further stores 
but at no point did Crowdcube hold this information to be true. 
- Also Crowdcube isnt accountable for decisions made later by a company, of which it 
has no control over.
As Crowdcube wasnt able to resolve the complaint, Mr H referred his complaint to this 
service for independent review. One of our investigations completed an investigation. He 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary he said:
- He didnt believe the pitch was sufficiently clear and Crowdcube ought to have done 
more to disclose the full due diligence checks that they had carried out. 
- Whilst Crowdcube ought to have done more here, in order to uphold the complaint, 
he said he needed to be satisfied that if it had, it would have changed Mr Hs decision 
to invest. 
- Having review the evidence, the investigator said if Mr Hs decision to invest was 
based on the specific strategy of the opening of physical locations, he wouldve 
expected Mr H to raise concerns at the time he was sent updates about the change 
in strategy. But, Mr H didnt express his dissatisfaction until much later  and after 
Company A had failed.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary he said:
- The most important factor of investing in businesses such as Company A is how 
many stores can the business grow to. This is the main reason why he invested in 
Company A. There were four stores with a potential to grow to a significantly larger 
number  and he understood that his money was going to be used primarily for that 
purpose from the information presented to him.
- After being misled and making the decision to invest, it was simply pointless to waste 
time and energy complaining as he couldnt influence the business strategy. He had 
already committed money, which he wouldnt have done if he had known that there 
was a different plan. He solely relied at the information available at the time.
As Mr H didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
- PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
- COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
- COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
- The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open toinvestment: []
- fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, clear 
and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr H 
aware of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the 
outcome of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and 
benefits of investing in Company A.
Essentially Mr H complains that Company A didnt use the funds raised through the 
crowdfund in the way in which Crowdcube promoted it would. Ive reviewed the original pitch 
and note there is limited information on exactly what the funds would be used for. There is a 
short section that talks about how Company A had doubled its number of sites from two to 
four and it was looking for further expansion but no more detail than that Crowdcube were 
promoting an investment into a non-readily available security that was high risk in nature. 
So, this means how the funds were intended to be used by Company A was essential 
information the prospective investors, like Mr H, would need to enable them to make a 
reasoned decision to invest or not.
Crowdcube has provided notification to show the due diligence it carried out before 
promoting the investment opportunity. A key element of this was how it satisfied itself of the 
plausibility that Company A would use funds for further expansion by opening new sites. 
Crowdcube says it discussed this with Company A, and was told by Company A that it had a 
number of locations in mind but plans were at an early stage, so there was limited 
documentary evidence available. Crowdcube said it was satisfied the plans were genuine. 
To support this, Crowdcube has provided notes from its call records with Company A  
including those from a call in November 2017, shortly before promoting the investments. 
This includes the following note from this call: 
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
This is evidence to support that Crowdcube did perform due diligence  including that related 
to Company As plans to open new sites. But what is missing is Company As response to 
the above question, so it is unclear what further enquiries or indeed whether Company A 
responded at all. In its defence of the complaint, Crowdcube said it didnt promote the 
opening of specific sites at any point and rather, promoted Company A had expanded from 
two sites to four and intended to expand further. But Im not persuaded by Crowdcubes 
arguments. It was obliged to ensure the promotion was fair, clear and not misleading. But its 
not clear what further expansion means from the promotion. I think it is reasonable to 
conclude from the following extracts, having grown from two sites to four, and now raising
funds for further expansion that Company A was looking to open up new sites with the 
funding. This is supported by the fact there is evidence that Crowdcube asked Company A 
questions about opening new sites.  All of this leads me to the conclusion that Crowdcube 
didnt meet its obligations.
In my view Crowdcube should have completed a basic plausibility check on the statement of 
future expansion as it is relevant to the future success of Company A. I accept there may be 
difficulty in testing the plausibility of whether Company A would do what it says it intends to 
do in the promotion. I also understand that Crowdcube tested the plausibility of the 
statement of further expansion by combining a Q&A with Company A with evidence of its 
track record of opening new sites. But from the information Ive seen, its apparent Crowdcube knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were 
not substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these 
plans were. I think this something Mr H should have been made aware of  but I dont think 
the available evidence supports that Crowdcube did this. So, this is another reason why I 
dont think Crowdcube met its obligations under COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, clear and not 
misleading rule.
I also dont think Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R (6))  the 
clients best interest rule. Crowdcube needed to safeguard investors, like Mr H, interests. To 
do this I think it should have asked what Company A meant by further expansion and 
checked whether this was plausible. For example, Crowdcube could have performed a 
plausibility check by obtaining lease documentation (like it did for the two previous stores) to 
establish if it intended to open at new sites. Or it could have asked for evidence of 
agreements in principle or anything to demonstrate Company A intended to open new 
stores. I havent seen that it did this, so it follows that I find it didnt act in Mr Hs best interest 
by failing to. 
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr H wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr H, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
Mr H says the main reason he took part in this crowdfund was because he understood his 
investment would be used to primary used for Company A to increase the number of stores 
 and he wouldnt have invested had been clear the expansion plans werent substantiated. 
When making his complaint, I have to consider that Mr H has the benefit of hindsight, 
knowing Company A didnt open new stores and ultimately the expansion failing, and it being 
liquidated. 
So, what I need to consider, is whether Mr Hs decision to invest would have been different 
but for the failings Ive identified. To be clear, what I have to decide isnt whether Mr H 
wouldve invested had he been made aware that Company A was going to pivot its plans 
away from opening new stores, this is because Crowdcube wasnt aware of Company A 
having any intentions to change plans at the time of promoting the investment. Rather its to 
decide whether Mr H wouldve still invested had he been told that Company As plans to 
open new stores were at an early stage and that Crowdcube hadnt seen any documentary 
evidence to substantiate the plans.
Im aware that Company A contacted all investors, including Mr H, in 2018 and 2019 to
explain it had decided to pivot its business model away from branded high street stores to
move towards an online delivery model. In my view, these updates would have alerted Mr H 
to a change in his understanding of the expansion plan  as per the comments hes made in 
his complaint about his reasons for investing. 
So, Ive looked to see if there is any evidence of Mr H raising concerns or making any 
inquiries following these updates. But I havent seen evidence that he did. If the opening of 
new stores was critical to Mr Hs decision to invest, then I would have expected to see some 
evidence to support this. Mr H says he didnt contact Company A as he thought it was simply 
pointless to waste time and energy complaining as he couldnt influence the business 
strategy. But when taking account all of the available evidence, Im not persuaded his 
decision to invest was based purely on the opening of new stores.Aside from the initial statement about further expansion, the promotion provided positive 
statements about Company As achievements in the past and performance statics as well as 
and financial information. This included the following information regarding Company As 
revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k...We have seen sales
grow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. 
All of this information is designed to attract potential investors like Mr H. So, its clear to me 
that there are a number of reasons other than the opening of new sites, that could have 
attracted Mr H to invest. And it is more plausible that Mr H invested in Company A as he
had confidence in the overall financial prospect of the business and wouldve done so even if 
he had been told the expansion plans were at an early stage.
While Mr H says he wouldnt have invested and the information on expansion plans was 
decisive to his decision making, I dont think the balance of evidence supports this. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Mr H discussed the expansion of new stores with Crowdcube or 
Company A before investing  for example there is no evidence of queries or specific 
requests made by him about this element of the promotion.  And Mr H didnt raise any 
concerns at the time Company A provided updates to explain a change in expansion plans. 
So, taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that 
clearer information about the expansion plans would have changed Mr Hs decision to 
invest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman