DRN-3514501
The complaint
Mr M complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank and their 
decision to close his current account. He also complains about the knock-on effect this 
account closure had on the way he received interest payments from a linked savings 
account, as well as other service issues.
What happened
Mr M held a current account with Tesco, as well as a savings and loan account. In the 
Summer of 2021, Tesco took a business decision to close all customer current accounts by 
30 November 2021, with Mr Ms included.
Mr M was unhappy about this, and the impact this had on his other accounts. So, he raised a 
complaint. Mr M was unhappy with Tescos decision to close his current account as a whole. 
And he was unhappy with difficulty this created with the interest payments generated from 
his savings account. Mr M was unhappy that Tesco issued these monthly payments by 
cheque, as they were originally paid into the closed account. Mr M also complained about 
the way Tesco applied overpayments to his loan account, and the letters they sent to him 
about this. Finally, Mr M was unhappy with the wait times he experienced when trying to 
speak to Tesco to discuss the issues Ive listed above. So, Mr M wanted to be able to use 
the balance of his savings account to clear his loan. And he wanted to be compensated for 
the upset and inconvenience hes been caused.
Tesco responded and upheld the complaint in part. They thought theyd acted fairly when 
closing Mr Ms current account, as theyd notified him in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. And they explained the interest payments had been issued by cheque as they 
didnt hold another nominated account to make these payments following the current 
account closure. So, they didnt think this was unreasonable. They also thought theyd 
processed Mr Ms overpayments to his loan fairly and had sent written confirmation in line 
with their process. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more regarding these 
points. But, they acknowledged their wait times to speak to them by phone were longer than 
they would like, and they paid Mr M £25 to recognise any inconvenience this caused. Mr M 
accepted Tescos offer of £25 but remained unhappy with the rest of Tescos response. So, 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Tesco had 
acted fairly when closing the current account. And they thought Tesco had acted reasonably 
in the way theyd paid Mr M the interest from his savings account and the way they had 
applied the overpayments to his loan. They also explained that Mr Ms savings account 
allowed no withdrawals until its maturity date in 2025, so they didnt think Tesco were 
obliged to allow Mr M access to these funds. Because of the above, our investigator didnt 
think Tesco needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think the way in which Tesco paid him his interest was 
reasonable. And he disputed why Tesco were unable pay this interest into the account linked 
to paying his loan. Mr M also explained his loan overpayments were intended to reduce the 
monthly payment and he didnt think Tesco were fair to use them to reduce the term instead. 
Our investigator considered the points Mr M raised, but their view remained the same. Mr M 
remained unhappy with this, providing further comments as to why. As Mr M didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M had 
no intention of closing his current account with Tesco. So, I appreciate the inconvenience 
this may have had on the way he handled his finances in the short term. And I recognise this 
account closure led to a change in the way the interest generated from his savings account 
was paid to him. I also understand Mr M made overpayments to his loan with the intention of 
reducing his monthly repayment. So, when it became clear it instead reduced the term, I can 
appreciate Mr Ms frustration. And due to the wait times Mr M had experienced, which Tesco 
have already recognised and resolved, I can understand Mr Ms reluctance to call Tesco to 
update his preferences regarding this and the way his interest is paid.
But for me to say Tesco have done something wrong, and so should compensate Mr M and 
allow him to withdraw the funds of his fixed rate savings account early, Id need to be 
satisfied that they have acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, Id need to be satisfied that 
Tesco had made intentional, and unreasonable, errors in the way they processed Mr Ms 
interest payments and loan overpayments. Or, if I dont think they did, that the way they 
chose to process these were unfair and that Mr M wasnt given the opportunity to provide 
instructions to change this. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the account closure itself, as this was the catalyst for the majority of 
Mr Ms complaint. Tesco have confirmed they took the business decision to close all current 
accounts they provided to customers. Our service is unable to consider, or comment upon, 
business decisions banks such as Tesco make as part of their internal business processes. 
This would instead fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So, Im unable to say Tesco did anything wrong when taking this decision.
But I would expect them to ensure they acted within the terms and conditions of the account 
when closing it. Ive seen these terms, which explain Tesco must inform customers of their 
intention to close the account two months before the closure is completed. And Ive seen the 
draft letter that Tesco say they sent to all affected customers between July and August 2021, 
including Mr M, notifying them about the closure. Mr M hasnt said he didnt receive this. And 
I can see he brought his account balance to £0 in time for the closure deadline of 30 
November, which suggests to me he was aware of the impending closure. So, I think Tesco 
acted within the account terms and conditions when closing Mr Ms account.
Ive then thought about the impact this closure had on the management of Mr Ms other 
accounts. Mr Ms savings account was set up to pay the interest it generated into his current 
account. So, when this current account was closed, the interest needed to be paid to Mr M 
by other means. Ive seen in December 2021, the interest was applied to the savings 
account itself. But in both January and February 2022, this interest was paid to Mr M by 
cheque. And Mr M is unhappy with the inconvenience this caused him needed to arrange 
paying this cheque in.I can understand Mr Ms frustration, as Tesco have paid this interest to Mr M by two different 
methods. And I do recognise Tesco havent provided an explicit explanation as to why this 
change occurred. But I must also take into account the fact that, through both methods, Mr 
M received the interest he was due. So, he incurred no financial loss. Its been confirmed 
that the interest is now applied to the savings account itself, after Mr M contacted Tesco to 
confirm this as his preference. From what Ive seen, this preference hadnt been 
communicated to Tesco before this. So, I dont think I can say that their decision to issue the 
interest to Mr M by cheque was an error on Tescos part, made against Mr Ms stated 
preference at the time. And because of this, I dont think Tesco need to do anything more for 
this aspect of the complaint.
I understand Mr M has queried why Tesco were able to pay his compensation into the 
account linked to his loan, but not the interest. But this is because Tescos process requires 
explicit instruction from Mr M to pay the interest into a nominated account. This instruction 
isnt required to pay the compensation. So, I cant say this means Tesco have acted unfairly.
Ive then thought about Mr Ms overpayments to his loan. Mr M has confirmed he made 
these overpayments to reduce the monthly payment. But instead, they were used to reduce 
the loan term. And he doesnt think it was fair for Tesco to apply the payments in a certain 
way without confirming with him first. But I disagree.
Tesco have confirmed any loan overpayment is used to reduce a loans term by default, as 
this is the most financially advantageous choice for a customer due to a greater interest 
rebate. I dont think this is unreasonable and I think it shows Tesco acting in Mr Ms best 
interests based on the information they had available.
Ive seen an example letter of the letters Mr M says he received each time he made an 
overpayment. And this explains that if Mr M would prefer to reduce the monthly repayment 
amount instead, he was able to arrange this by calling them. Im unable to see that Mr M did. 
So, I cant say Tesco have acted unfairly by processing the overpayments in their standard 
way. I appreciate Mr M has said this is an unreasonable request, due to the wait times hes 
experienced previously. But I think Mr M was made reasonably aware of the options 
available to him and what he needed to do if he wanted the overpayments to be processed 
differently to Tescos standard process. It was Mr Ms choice to then follow this guidance or 
decide not to do so if he thought this was inconvenient. 
Im aware Mr M is also unhappy that these letters were sent at all. But Tesco have followed 
the terms of the loan agreement by confirming the overpayment and its impact in writing. 
And this is something Id expect them to do, as there had been a material change in the term 
length. So, I cant say Tesco have acted unfairly regarding the loan and because of this, I 
dont think Tesco need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. 
Finally, Ive thought about Tescos refusal to allow Mr M to use the balance of his savings 
account to pay off his loan balance. Ive seen the letter Mr M received when he opened the 
savings account. And this letter explained that no withdrawals could be made from the 
account until the maturity date in 2025. I cant see Mr M disputed this at the time and so, Im 
satisfied Mr M was happy with, and agreed to, these terms originally.
The letter also supplied a key information leaflet which sets out the exceptional 
circumstances that Tesco may consider allowing a withdrawal. And I dont think Mr Ms 
circumstances fall under any of the examples provided as exceptional. So, I cant say Tesco 
have acted unfairly when not allowing Mr M to use his savings account funds to pay his loan 
balance. Because of this, I dont think Tesco need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise Mr M will likely stand by his view that the closure of his account was unfair. I understand that because of 
this, Mr M thinks Tesco should allow him to use the funds in his fixed rate savings account to 
acknowledge the inconvenience this caused. But as this would be an example of Tesco 
operating outside of the terms of the account Mr M holds, I could only direct Tesco to take 
this action if I think they had done something wrong. And I dont think they have.
I also want to reassure Mr M that I have considered all the comments and information he has 
provided at length. And I want to make it clear the outcome of my decision isnt intended to 
disregard or downplay the obvious impact Tescos decision to close his account has had, or 
the unhappiness Mr M feels about the service hes received. But as I explained in my 
decision above, Im only able to ask Tesco to take further action, or issue compensation, if I 
think they have acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont think they have on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman