DRN-3454839
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about the terms on which Clydesdale Bank Plc dealt with their 
borrowing and the transfer of debt to a third party. They say the borrowing was a regulated 
mortgage contract and Clydesdale failed to treat it as such.
What happened
Mr F had a residential rental business which began in 1990, based on a portfolio of 
properties. Mr F moved his borrowing to Clydesdale in 2005 because his previous bank was 
unable to offer interest-only terms on his business loan. He had a number of loans from 
Clydesdale and in 2009 he consolidated them into a fixed rate tailored business loan (TBL) 
of £1.98m and an overdraft facility. At the same time, Mrs F also took out a fixed rate TBL of 
£182,335. For both loans, the interest rate was initially fixed for two years. Later there were 
further restructures and in 2012 the loans were moved to a variable interest rate for a one- 
year term. After expiry, the debts from both the one-year loans became overdrafts, still 
secured on the properties.
There were difficulties in repaying the lending. In February 2014, LPA receivers were 
appointed to sell the properties in the portfolio. Clydesdale agreed that two of the properties 
(which Ill call properties A and B) wouldnt be sold because they were occupied by Mr and 
Mrs F and another family member.
Later in 2014, Mr and Mrs F complained to Clydesdale that the fixed rate TBLs had been 
mis-sold in 2009. In 2015 Mr and Mrs F both referred their complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Following the sale of the other properties in the portfolio, Clydesdale wrote to Mr F in April 
2015 saying his remaining debt (which was an overdraft facility) secured on properties A and 
B was a regulated mortgage contract (RMC) and was subject to Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB).
In June 2015 Clydesdale sold Mr Fs remaining debt, secured on properties A and B, to a 
third party.
In 2016 an ombudsman issued final decisions on the two complaints to this service about the 
2009 sale of the fixed rate TBLs. She didnt uphold the complaints.
 
In 2017 and 2018, Mr and Mrs F complained to Clydesdale and then to this service about the 
sale of Mr Fs debt to the third party, and about its status as an RMC. In particular, they 
complained that the TBL lending should have been treated as an RMC from the start, 
because properties A and B were part of the security portfolio and were occupied by family 
members.
Mr and Mrs F also complained that the bank transferred the RMC to a third party which has 
no authorisation to act as a mortgage lender in the UK or to comply with MCOB.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has argued that the previous complaints about the fixed rate 
TBLs should be reopened, because material new evidence has been provided. In those 
complaints the TBLs had been treated as commercial loans and the representative has said 
now they should be correctly considered and investigated as RMCs. Mr F clearly stated 
when he brought the complaint to the ombudsman in 2015 that the family homes were 
involved.
I issued a first provisional decision in August 2021 in which I said I was minded not to uphold 
the complaint. Following further points from Mr and Mrs Fs representative, which are 
summarised below, I issued a second provisional decision in February 2022, again saying I 
was minded not to uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Fs representative strongly disagreed 
with my findings and made further points, which I also summarise below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I remain of the same view that I reached in my second provisional 
decision, as I set out below.
The complainants and the bank have made substantial submissions on this case and Im 
satisfied that they have provided enough evidence for me to reach a decision on the 
complaint. Id like to assure the parties that Ive looked at all the arguments and evidence 
with care. In this decision Ill concentrate on the key arguments and evidence that are 
material to my determination of the complaint.
The previous ombudsman decisions about the fixed rate TBLs
I dont agree that there are grounds to consider again the subject matter of the complaints 
determined by final decisions in 2016. They werent upheld by the ombudsman. As final 
decisions have been issued on those complaints, we cannot reopen them. It would also be 
inappropriate for us to consider the same subject matter of the complaints again, unless  as 
set out in DISP 3.3.4B G (3) in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook Dispute 
Resolution Rules  material new evidence which the ombudsman considers likely to affect 
the outcome has subsequently become available to the complainant.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says that the ombudsmans decisions wrongly regarded the 
fixed rate TBLs as commercial loans, when they should have been considered as RMCs. He 
also says that the basis of the complaint as now argued is different from that raised by Mr F 
in 2014. The representative has also supplied further arguments from his legal adviser. But 
these are all new arguments, rather than material new evidence that has subsequently 
become available to the complainant. I appreciate that the representative disagrees with the 
ombudsmans reasoning and decisions in 2016, but that doesnt constitute new evidence. It 
was open to the complainant to make these arguments before the ombudsmans final 
decisions in 2016.
 
The representative says that the banks letter to Mr F in 2015, saying the lending would now 
receive RMC protection, is material new evidence. But I note that the letter was submitted to 
the ombudsman by Mr and Mrs F in 2015 during the previous complaint and is therefore not 
new evidence.
The representative has supplied correspondence between Clydesdale and other borrowers 
from 2015, in which the bank said that its own guidelines also state that if security held is 
more than one property and one fulfils the RMC criteria then the entire lend is RMC regulated. For reasons I explain below, I dont find that the fixed rate TBLs ought to have 
been regarded as RMCs, even after taking this information into account, so I dont consider 
this correspondence to be evidence that would affect the outcome of the previous complaint.
The representative says the bank has now acknowledged that they knew before 2009 
about Mr and Mrs Fs occupation of property A. Im not aware of any evidence that the bank 
has actually said that  but I can see that Clydesdale has now acknowledged that Mr and 
Mrs F had moved into the property before 2009. I believe the evidence suggests they moved 
into the property in 2006. But again, for reasons I explain below, I dont believe it would 
follow from Mr and Mrs Fs occupation of property A that the fixed rate TBLs should have 
been RMCs, so I dont consider it to be evidence that would affect the outcome of the 
previous complaint.
The representative has also submitted an example of an internal Clydesdale document, a 
form completed at the time of a loan sale, even though the bank hasnt produced such a 
document in Mr and Mrs Fs case. As this is a document from another loan sale, I dont 
regard it as material new evidence about Mr and Mrs Fs previous complaint. Similarly, I 
dont consider the information the representative has submitted about settlements reached 
by other consumers in their complaints against other banks to be material new evidence that 
would affect the outcome of Mr and Mrs Fs previous complaint.
There is, according to Mr and Mrs Fs representative, new evidence that shows that the first 
loan in 2005 should have been an RMC rather than a commercial loan, and as a 
consequence, he argues that all subsequent loans should in turn have been set up as RMCs 
rather than unregulated commercial loans  including Mr Fs fixed rate TBL in 2009. The 
representative says the evidence shows that Clydesdale was aware before the first loan was 
agreed that Mr and Mrs F intended to move into property A. As the only additional security 
for that first loan was a smaller property, he says Mr and Mrs Fs intended residence made 
up more than 40% of the land on which the loan was secured.
Ive looked at the evidence about the first 2005 loan and Im not persuaded that the bank 
was aware at the time of any intention on the part of Mr and Mrs F to move into property A 
as their home. The loan agreement and the banks internal documents are consistent with 
the loan being established to enable the purchase of property A as an investment property, 
and there is no documentary evidence that Mr F said he intended to take up residence there. 
There was a property schedule from 2005 in the banks files showing an estimated rental 
income from property A. The representative suggests this document has been fabricated by 
the bank for this complaint, but I can see the document is consistent with the requirement in 
the 2005 loan agreement that the property was to be occupied only on assured shorthold 
tenancies (ASTs). Im satisfied from the evidence on file that the first 2005 loan was an 
unregulated and non-advised commercial loan.
Mr F says that he agreed with the bank that property A would be financed temporarily by a 
commercial loan in 2005, then later transferred to a residential mortgage after he moved in. 
But Ive seen no evidence in the loan documents or bank files that supports this suggestion. 
The representative says that Mr F is dyslexic and that it was for the bank to advise on 
lending terms and how to finance the renovation and his other rental properties. But in the 
records Ive seen, theres no evidence that the bank knew about Mr Fs dyslexia or that he 
sought any adjustments in communications. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says that further extensions to the lending in 2006, secured 
on property A, were variations to the first 2005 loan, making that loan an RMC because by 
that time Mr and Mrs F had moved into property A. But I understand that the lending in 2006 
was not an extension of the first loan in 2005  rather, it was made up of further distinct 
loans. Moreover, all of the further lending from 2006 onwards was secured on the wider portfolio, rather than only on the two properties that secured the first loan in 2005, and the 
agreements again contained the provision that the properties were to be occupied only on 
ASTs. Im therefore not persuaded that any part of the further lending from 2006 onwards 
was an RMC.
 
In summary, I dont believe there is new evidence that shows the first 2005 loan should have 
been an RMC at the outset, or should have become one later. So I dont agree with the 
representative that the circumstances of the first 2005 loan meant that all the lending from 
then onwards, including the 2009 lending, should have been RMCs. I therefore dont 
consider there to be material new evidence relating to the subject matter of the previous 
complaints which has subsequently become available to the complainant and which is likely 
to affect the outcome.
For these reasons, I wont be re-examining the sales of the 2009 fixed rate TBLs.
Was the lending secured on the portfolio of properties correctly classified as 
commercial lending?
Central to the merits of this complaint is the matter of whether the inclusion of properties A 
and B in the security meant that the lending in Mr Fs loans should have been treated as an 
RMC, rather than as commercial lending.
The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) Rules which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook 
(the FCA Handbook). DISP 3.6.4 R sets out the following requirement:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I have therefore looked carefully at Mr and Mrs Fs argument, as put by their representative, 
about the mortgage regulations.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative argues that the applicable regulations from 2004 to 2014 say 
that if the family occupies more than 40% of a property on which there is a first charge, then 
any loan secured by that first charge is an RMC. He says that if the home forms part of a 
portfolio then the whole portfolio loan becomes an RMC. He says that the decision is per 
title, not per loan, and if you include one RMC property in a portfolio, you bind the whole loan 
by RMC rules.
He goes on to say the two-year fixed rate TBL was without doubt a new contract and as 
properties A and B were security for the business debts, this would have created an RMC 
position in 2009, which would have applied to the whole loan. He says the later restructures, 
the extension of the fixed rate and then the move to the variable rate in 2012 were all further 
sales that should be covered by MCOB rules.
Article 61 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the RAO) (the version that applied at the time of the sale of the fixed rate TBL in 2009) sets out as follows:
(3) In this Chapter
(a) a regulated mortgage contract means a contract under which
 
(i) a person (the lender) provides credit to an individual or to trustees (the 
borrower); and
(ii) the obligation of the borrower to repay is secured by a first legal mortgage 
on land (other than timeshare accommodation) in the United Kingdom, at 
least 40% of which is used, or is intended to be used, as or in connection with 
a dwelling by the borrower or (in the case of credit provided to trustees) by an 
individual who is a beneficiary of the trust, or by a related person;
.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph 3(a)
(a) a first legal mortgage" means a legal mortgage ranking in priority ahead 
of all other mortgages (if any) affecting the land in question, where mortgage" 
includes charge and (in Scotland) a heritable security;
(b) the area of any land which comprises a building or other structure 
containing two or more storeys is to be taken to be the aggregate of the floor 
areas of each of those storeys;
The FCA Handbook sets out the definition of an RMC in its Perimeter Guidance Manual 
(PERG) as follows (again this is the version that applied at the time of the sale of the fixed 
rate TBL in 2009):
PERG 4.4.1 G
Article 61(3)(a) of the Regulated Activities Order defines a regulated mortgage 
contract as a contract which, at the time it is entered into, satisfies the following 
conditions:
(1) the contract is one where a lender provides credit to an individual or 
trustees (the 'borrower');
(2) the contract provides for the obligation of the borrower to repay to be 
secured by a first legal mortgage on land (other than timeshare 
accommodation) in the United Kingdom; and
(3) at least 40% of that land is used, or is intended to be used, as or in 
connection with a dwelling by the borrower (or, where trustees are the 
borrower, by an individual who is a beneficiary of the trust) or by a related 
person.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative argues that where a number of properties are given as 
security for a single loan, the calculation of the percentage of land used as a dwelling by the 
borrower or a relative should be made for each property (or title) separately, and that if the 
figure for any one property (or title) exceeds the 40% threshold, then the entire loan contract 
becomes an RMC, irrespective of the use of the other properties.
Having considered the matter carefully, I dont agree with the representatives interpretation 
of the rules. Ive seen no rule or guidance that says the residential percentage calculation 
should be made separately for each property or each title, rather than across the total of the land given as security for the loan contract. To the contrary, there is reference in the MCOB 
rules to calculating a percentage of the total of the land to be given as security for the loan 
contract (again this is the version that applied at the time of the sale of the fixed rate TBL in 
2009):
MCOB 1.2.5 G
(1) In order for a loan to fall within the definition of a regulated mortgage 
contract, at least 40% of the total of the land to be given as security must 
be used as or in connection with a dwelling [my emphasis]
While PERG does not give any examples involving a single loan contract secured on a 
portfolio of separate houses, it does give examples of three situations in which non- 
residential land given within the security, alongside residential property, should be 
considered as part of the total land for calculating the percentage:
PERG 4.4.6 G
The condition set out in PERG 4.4.1G (3) means that loans secured on 
property which is entirely used for business purposes (such as an office 
block) cannot fall within the definition. However, loans secured on 'mixed use' 
property could be covered, provided that the borrower (or trust beneficiary, 
where the borrowers are trustees) or a 'related person' uses at least 40% of 
the total of the land as or in connection with a dwelling. Loans secured on a 
six-floor property, half of which was occupied by the borrower and half let out 
for business purposes would therefore satisfy the definition. (Article 61(4)(b) 
makes it clear that 'land', in the context of a multi-storey building, means the 
aggregate of the floor area of each of the storeys.) [my emphasis]
PERG 4.4.7 G
The expression 'as or in connection with a dwelling' set out in PERG 4.4.1G 
(3) means that loans to buy a small house with a large garden would in 
general be covered. However, if at the time of entering into the contract the 
intention was for the garden to be used for some other purpose  for 
example, if it was intended that a third party were to have use of the garden  
the contract would not constitute a regulated mortgage contract...
PERG 4.4.7 G
Furthermore, the FSA would not regard a loan to purchase farmland and a 
farmhouse as constituting a regulated mortgage contract (where the 
farmhouse and garden amount to less than 40% of the land area), since it 
does not appear that the land could properly be said to be used 'in connection 
with' the farmhouse. The presence of the farmhouse is unconnected with the 
use to which the farmland is put (in contrast to a residential property's garden, 
which would have no existence independent of the property). [my emphasis]
As I set out in my provisional decision, while I accept that the three examples listed above do 
not replicate the exact structure of the security given for Mr Fs loan, they show that the rules 
envisage that family homes within a larger land area in mixed use wouldnt automatically 
make the loan an RMC. Instead, the relevant guidance provisions call for a calculation of the 
total of the land and the aggregate of the floor area of each of the storeys (PERG 
4.4.6 G). Additionally, the farmhouse example shows that even where there is mixed use 
within an area of property used only by the borrower, a loan would only be regarded as an RMC if at least 40% of the land area was used in connection with a dwelling (PERG 
4.4.7 G). Therefore, the guidance provisions are consistent in their interpretation of the rules 
to be based on the total land secured.
The representative states that the rules apply to each title and not to the loan contract. In his 
response of 30 October 2020 to our investigators view, he said The decision is per TITLE
not per LOAN and if you include one RMC property in a portfolio, you bind the whole loan by 
RMC rules. But he hasnt pointed to any part of MCOB, PERG or the RAO which specifies 
that the calculation should be made in relation to each title. Nor has he provided any 
references to legal cases or citations which support that interpretation. Given that MCOB 
does refer to basing the calculation on the total of the land given as security for the loan, and 
PERG indicates that the same approach should be used for a family home within a wider 
area of mixed-used land, I conclude that Mr Fs lending does not fall within the definition of a 
regulated mortgage contract under article 61(3)(a) of the RAO, on the basis that less than 
40% of the total of the land given as security for the loan was used as or in connection with 
a dwelling by Mr F and his family.
This is because nine properties were given as security for Mr Fs fixed rate TBL in total. Mr F 
and his family resided in two out of those nine properties. On that basis, Im satisfied that 
less than 40% of the total land was occupied by Mr F and his family. I cant therefore say 
that the rules required that the loan be treated as an RMC.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative reports that he has had success representing other customers 
in complaints against other banks, based on the reasoning that the percentage calculation 
should be made separately for each title. He says these cases have set precedents in 
complaints processes. I dont think I can treat these cases as precedents. I dont know the 
full circumstances of the complaints, but in any event, they were private settlements of other 
disputes and I dont consider them to be relevant to the interpretation of the rules governing 
regulated mortgages for application in Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says that if the rules dont require the calculation to be made 
separately for each title, then that would have implications for other customers. But my role 
here is solely to determine a fair and reasonable outcome of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I 
make no findings about other customers complaints.
The representative also points out that the examples in PERG are properties with a single 
title. In his more recent submission, he makes a further point that there is no example 
of the percentage Rule being applied across multiple titles because no sane person would 
expect any bank or adviser to mis-advise someone to put their home at risk in a commercial 
lending portfolio. The representative goes on to say that all the PERG guidance relates to 
one piece of land and that total land cannot be redefined as if land means a multiple 
land/security position. But I dont believe any redefinition is necessary  the MCOB rule 
uses the words at least 40% of the total of the land to be given as security [my emphasis] 
which I believe plainly means the total of the land to be given as security, and makes no 
mention of one piece of land, nor any requirement to consider separately any individual 
piece of land or indeed any individual title within the security.
I understand the representative has taken legal advice on this matter and as a result has 
submitted further points on behalf of Mr and Mrs F about residential properties in a 
commercial portfolio. In summary, the legal advice puts forward two main arguments. The 
first is that while lenders may argue that the 40% calculation should be based on an 
aggregate of the land area of all properties in a portfolio, such an interpretation gives rise to 
the opportunity for lenders to subvert the protections afforded to dwellings by the regulations. 
But I note the rules clearly allow for circumstances in which a dwelling should not be given 
RMC protection, such as those in mixed use which I mention above. 
It is inherent in the 40% threshold that some dwellings on which loan contracts are secured 
will not be covered by regulated mortgage contracts. Article 61(3)(a) RAO and the relevant 
rules and guidance in PERG and MCOB make clear that lending where less than 40% of the 
land is used as or in connection with a dwelling by the borrower or a connected person does 
not fall within the definition of a regulated mortgage contract. In these circumstances, I 
cannot accept that it was the legislative intention to bring entire portfolios of rental properties 
within the protection of the residential mortgage rules if a landlord (or a connected person) 
chooses to occupy one of the properties (if that occupation was less than 40% of the total 
land area). Im also not aware of anything in the relevant rules or guidance to suggest that 
the contrary position applies, nor has the representative provided any evidence within the 
law or the rules to suggest it does, despite my request to do so. If it had been the legislators 
intention to give a loan taken out by a multi-property rental business (secured on a portfolio 
of rental properties where less than 40% of that land was used as or in connection with a 
dwelling by the borrower or connected person) the same protections as a residential 
mortgage, it would be enough of an anomaly in respect of the current regulatory position that 
I would expect to see it specified in the supporting rules and guidance  and it is not.
The second argument from the representatives legal advice is that the whole portfolio 
interpretation would be greatly weakened in cases where a dwelling is added to an existing 
commercial portfolio, because the added dwelling constitutes a self-contained security. But I 
dont believe this argument is relevant to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, because all the 
properties were part of a commercial portfolio from the outset. Mr and Mrs F have said that 
property A was included in the security for the first 2005 loan as their intended dwelling with 
the knowledge of the bank, but Im not persuaded that the bank knew at the time that it was 
their intended dwelling, for reasons Ive already given. I accept that they moved in later, but 
by then the security was already part of an established rental portfolio  required to be let on 
ASTs  and the properties occupied by Mr Fs family accounted for less than 40% of the total 
of the land given as security.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative points out that MCOB 4.4.5 R at the relevant time (now 
MCOB 4.4A.21 R) says that if there is uncertainty as to whether a contract will be regulated, 
the regulated rules should be followed and more information obtained. But I understand this 
to be a practical instruction to firms that are uncertain, at the point of initial disclosure, about 
the status of the lending. In this complaint, theres no evidence that at the time the bank was 
uncertain about the status of the loans.
When the LPA receivers sold the rental properties in 2014, they were not all sold at the 
same time, and Mr and Mrs Fs representative argues that as size of the portfolio was 
reduced by successive sales, a point would have come where more than 40% of the total 
land would have been occupied by Mr Fs family. He says that at this point the debt should 
have become an RMC, which should have prevented any further sales. But I note that by 
time the LPA receivers were appointed, the loans had come to an end and the bank was 
seeking repayment. Im not persuaded that the sale of the security portfolio should 
reasonably be regarded as the parties entering into a series of new or varied loan contracts. 
It was simply the bank calling on its security as repayment of commercial loans that had 
already expired. For this reason, I dont accept that the bank should have halted the sale of 
the rental properties earlier. Properties A and B were left out of the sale because the family 
resided there, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require that any of the other 
rental properties in what was a commercial portfolio should have been treated in the same 
way.
Referring to the banks reclassification of the lending as an RMC in 2015, the representative 
points out that PERG 4.4.3 G says that contracts which do not start out as RMCs cannot 
subsequently become so, even if they meet the conditions for them. On this basis, the representative says the lending couldnt become an RMC in 2015. I agree with the 
representatives understanding of PERG 4.4.3 G, but I dont consider Mr and Mrs F are 
complaining that the lending should have been left as it was and not given RMC protection, 
so I dont intend to interfere with the status of the debt when it was transferred to the third 
party. The representative has not given any indication in his response to my provisional 
decision that this is not the case. Instead, he continues to insist that it is implied that giving 
the lending RMC protection in 2015 must mean that the lending was an RMC throughout, but 
I disagree with his logic. As I set out in my provisional decision, if changing the status of the 
lending in 2015 was at odds with DISP 4.4.3 G, I dont think I should try to resolve that 
matter by changing my interpretation of what defines a regulated mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has also submitted letters that the bank sent to other 
customers in 2015 which said the banks own guidelines also state that if security held is 
more than one property and one fulfils the RMC criteria then the entire lend is RMC 
regulated. Clydesdale has said it has located some historic internal training material from 
2014 confirming that it did take that approach. The bank has said that given the passage of 
time it hasnt been able to locate as much information as it hoped on when the guidelines 
were introduced, but said it has found some documents drafted in 2011 so it would expect 
that this was the position from at least 2011 onwards.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative argues that this is evidence that the regulations ought to be 
interpreted as requiring that if there is one property which exceeds the 40% threshold in a 
portfolio, the whole loan is subject to RMC rules. But Ive already explained my 
understanding of what the regulations require. I dont believe Clydesdales guidelines can be 
determinative of what is or was required by the RAO, MCOB and PERG. Im required to take 
into account the relevant rules and regulations that applied at the time to determine what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And as I said above, the relevant 
regulations define a regulated mortgage as a loan contract in which at least 40% of the total 
of the land to be given as security must be used by the borrower or his family as or in 
connection with a dwelling, and I therefore dont think the rules required the lending secured 
on Mr Fs portfolio of properties to be classified as an RMC.
I understand there is a dispute between the parties to this complaint over when the bank first 
became aware of Mr and Mrs Fs residence in property A, and over the area occupied by 
another family member in property B. It appears that Mr and Mrs F moved into property A 
during 2006, despite the condition in the loan agreements requiring all the properties to be 
let on ASTs. It also appears that Mr F didnt seek permission or give any formal notification 
of this change. Nor did the bank act on the obvious anomaly that Mr and Mrs Fs address on 
file was property A  in fact theres no evidence that anyone in the bank acknowledged that 
their address didnt align with the lending conditions, even when the lending was 
restructured and renewed. Mr and Mrs Fs residence at property A continued unremarked.
Things continued in this way until 2014 when the bank acknowledged Mr and Mrs Fs 
residence in property A, and the two properties A and B were left out of the sales by the LPA 
receivers, following a complaint from the customers and their representatives. But my 
conclusion is that even if I were to accept that the bank knew throughout that the family had 
occupied property A from 2006 onwards and more than 40% of property B from the outset, 
there would have been no requirement in the regulations to set up any of the portfolio 
lending as an RMC, for the reasons given above. In the case of property A, the family 
occupation was less than 40% of the total land at the start of the contract, and PERG 
4.4.3 G sets out that contracts that do not start out as regulated mortgage contracts cannot 
subsequently become so, even if they meet all the [requisite] conditions. In the case of 
property B, the family occupation was less than 40% of the total land given as security 
throughout. When the loans were consolidated in 2012, the family occupation of properties A 
and B did not add to 40% of the overall portfolio.I have considered whether the complaint should be determined on the basis that the bank 
ought to have realised sooner that Mr and Mrs F had moved into one of the properties, and 
therefore should have classified the lending on the portfolio as an RMC earlier in keeping 
with its own guidelines. But there are two reasons why, in my view, this would not be a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
First, it would in my view be unfair to pick any specific date on which the bank ought to have 
realised that Mr and Mrs F had moved in. Depending on the date selected, different 
outcomes would be likely to follow. For example, in living in property A, the borrower was 
from an early stage not in compliance with the AST requirement. Rather than leading to a 
change in status from commercial loan to RMC, this could have been treated as a breach of 
the loan conditions, with negative consequences for the borrower and for the future of the 
lending facilities. In other words, choosing a date early in the life of the loans, such as in 
2006, may lead to the possibility that Mr and Mrs F could have been in breach of the terms 
and conditions of the loans at that time.
In response, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says that a breach of the AST requirement would 
have had no ramifications in 2006. He says Mr F could have borrowed the money for a 
residential mortgage on property A almost anywhere at the time. But even if Mr F could have 
obtained a residential mortgage for property A on its own, the same property was already 
part of the security for Mr Fs other commercial borrowing from Clydesdale, which also had 
the AST condition. I therefore still believe that the breach of the AST requirement could have 
resulted in the default of all Mr Fs Clydesdale loans at an early stage. 
The second reason is that even if such a date could fairly be determined (and, to be clear, I 
dont believe it could), I think putting the customers into the position they would have been in 
with RMC facilities instead of commercial lending would not be in line with the relevant law, 
rules and guidance. As Ive said above, I dont think the banks own internal guidelines, 
which may very well err on the side of caution, can be said to determine what the regulations 
mean. The loan contracts secured on the portfolio were established as unregulated 
commercial lending and, as Ive also said above, Im satisfied that the lending did not meet 
the definition of an RMC under Article 61(3)(a) of the RAO  even when it became an 
overdraft, because it was still secured on the whole portfolio. I therefore cant reasonably 
require the bank to put the customer in the position as if the lending, secured on the 
portfolio, was defined at any time as an RMC. In order to require that, I would have to 
disregard the law, relevant regulations and guidance on what constitutes a regulated 
mortgage contract. Taking those considerations into account, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to say that Clydesdales internal guidelines, whenever they were adopted, should 
strike out the clear definition of an RMC in the RAO or the requirements of the mortgage 
regulations.
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont consider the lending secured by the portfolio of 
rental properties to be an RMC. However, I have considered what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case. In doing so, I have considered whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect the bank to have given the complainants the same protections that 
they would have been entitled to had Clydesdale treated it as an RMC customer. The 
commercial nature of the lending and the number of rental properties in the portfolio all point 
to the fact that this was a loan taken out for business purposes. Even though Mr and Mrs F 
and a relative occupied property within the portfolio, this was still less than 40% of the total 
land required to meet the definition of an RMC. In the circumstances, I consider that 
Clydesdale was correct in dealing with this loan as a non-RMC loan and not giving the whole 
portfolio the protections that would normally attach to an RMC. Mr Fs relationship with Clydesdale was established from the outset as commercial lending 
to finance a portfolio of rental properties, with a condition that all properties should be let to 
tenants on ASTs. Mr F had other business interests, but I understand that his main activity 
was his property rental business, which had been running since 1990, previously with 
commercial lending from another bank. When Clydesdale took over from the other bank, the 
portfolio was a major source of Mr Fs business income.
The fundamental character of the agreements with Clydesdale was therefore that they were 
unregulated commercial loans to support the established rental business based on a 
portfolio of properties, on which the lending was secured. The loan agreements show that 
this was what the parties agreed from the outset. I dont see this as just a formal matter of 
the terms and conditions. From the evidence, I believe this was the full understanding, 
shared by the parties, of the basis for the lending and it was entirely aligned with the 
character and purpose of the rental business operated by Mr F.
I realise that Mr and Mrs F moved into one of the properties in the portfolio, but this was 
without seeking permission or any renegotiation of the loan terms regarding the AST 
conditions. During the years that the full rental portfolio existed, I believe that both sides, by 
their own choice, regarded the lending as a commercial agreement. In the circumstances, I 
dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to instruct the bank now to unwind the 
commercial relationship and to establish retrospectively the entire rental portfolio, across 
nine properties, as a residential mortgage.
For all these reasons I consider it was fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to have treated the 
lending secured on the portfolio of properties as unregulated commercial lending. In any 
event, I note that the two properties that were occupied by the complainants and their 
relative were not sold by Clydesdale in 2014. I consider Clydesdale acted reasonably in 
preserving those properties, but I do not consider that it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Clydesdale should have also treated all of the other rental properties in the 
portfolio in the same way.
I will now deal with the remaining complaint points.
Mrs Fs borrowing
My understanding is that Mrs Fs 2009 fixed rate TBL and subsequent lending wasnt 
secured on property in which family members were resident. Im therefore satisfied that the 
lending didnt need to be an RMC. The security for that loan has been sold and the bank 
says the residual debt wasnt transferred to the third party.
The transfer of Mr Fs debt to the third party
Turning to the transfer of the debt to the third party, I find that Clydesdale acted fairly and 
reasonably in circumstances where it was contractually entitled to sell the debt. It also 
obtained undertakings from the third party that it would act to preserve the regulatory 
protections. I also understand that the administration of the RMC was put in the hands of an 
FCA regulated firm with appropriate mortgage permissions.
Summary
I realise that Mr and Mrs F and their representative will be disappointed by my decision and I 
understand the strength of their feelings about the complaint. But, for all the reasons given 
above, my conclusion is that the bank correctly treated Mr and Mrs Fs borrowing as 
commercial loans rather than as regulated mortgage contracts, and that it acted fairly and 
reasonably when it transferred Mr Fs debt to a third party.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman