DRN-2925729
The complaint
Ms D is complaining about the amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased her 
annual premium by when she made some changes to her car insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms D took out a car insurance policy with Admiral. She took the policy out 
through a broker  who I shall refer to as E. The annual premium was around £1,000. Ms D 
wanted to pay this monthly so she entered into a credit agreement  provided by E  to 
enable her to do this. This meant E paid the annual premium on Ms Ds behalf and Ms D 
agreed to repay E in line with the terms of the finance agreement.
Ms D later changed the vehicle insured on the policy. Admiral said an additional premium of 
around £650 was payable and this was added to Ms Ds finance agreement, which 
increased her monthly payments. Ms D then reduced the level of cover from fully 
comprehensive to third party, fire and theft. This generated a small refund of around £75 
which was used to reduce the amount payable on the finance agreement.
Ms D later complained to Admiral about the amount her monthly payments had increased by 
as she thought the amount she was being asked to pay was unfair. She said she could get 
the policy cheaper online and asked Admiral to agree to not increase the premium. Admiral 
maintained the price increase was correct so didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms D still didnt think Admiral was treating her fairly so she referred her complaint to this 
service. Since then, E cancelled Ms Ds insurance policy because it said she was in arrears 
on her finance agreement.
Two of our investigators reviewed Ms Ds complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They said they 
werent able to say what premium an insurer should charge. They said insurers were entitled 
to decide how they assess a risk on each individual case. They considered Admirals internal 
pricing matrix and they thought it had acted fairly. 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators opinions. She reiterated she could get the premium for 
a lot less than what Admiral was charging her. So she still thought Admiral wasnt treating 
her fairly. Shes also unhappy the policy was cancelled as she said this meant she couldnt 
drive her car as she couldnt afford to get a replacement policy for another month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Ms D has also complained about the cancellation of the insurance policy and the fact that 
she wasnt given adequate support when she was in financial difficulties. But these concerns 
are about E and are being considered in a separate complaint. So I havent commented on 
them in this decision.
Ms D is unhappy that her annual premium almost doubled after she changed her vehicle and 
reduced the level of cover. Shes shown she could have insured the vehicle for considerably 
less than what Admiral was charging.
I should first state that this service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct Admiral 
generally about how it conducts its business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether 
it has treated Ms D fairly.  
Admiral has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated the premium it charged. Im afraid I cant share that information with Ms D, but Ive 
considered it carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied Admiral charged a premium in line with 
what it would have charged other customers in a similar position  i.e. with similar risk 
profiles.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into account a large number of factors. At the 
renewal of each insurance policy or where a consumer carries out a change to the policy, 
Admiral carries out a new risk assessment. And its not unusual for a premium to increase as 
a result. As I said above, its not down to me to tell Admiral what factors it should take into 
account when assessing risk, nor how to go about its assessment. Different insurers will 
have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of that risk. And this is why Ms D 
was able to find policies with different premiums. But, ultimately, the annual premium 
Admiral charges is essentially a matter of commercial judgement and isnt something with 
which we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can fully appreciate why Ms D was unhappy to find a policy where the annual premium was 
around 50% less than what Admiral were charging. As I said, different insurers will view and 
price risk differently and a difference in the price offered doesnt mean Admiral has treated 
Ms D unfairly with how it priced their policy. As I said above, Admiral has shown the 
premium its charged is in line with what it would have charged other customers with a 
similar risk profile. 
I appreciate Ms D feels strongly that the premium increase was unfair and she says this 
meant she couldnt afford to keep up with her monthly payments. But, while I naturally 
sympathise with the situation Ms D has found herself in, for the reasons I set out above, I 
cant say Admiral has treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman