DRN-4323598
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a timeshare product was mis-sold to her. Because the purchase was 
financed with a loan from Honeycomb Finance Limited and responsibility for that loan has 
been transferred to Oplo PL Ltd, she says that it is responsible, along with the seller, for the 
mis-sale and other concerns she has raised.  
For simplicity, Ill refer to the lender as Honeycomb in this decision. Mrs P has been 
represented by claims management businesses, so when I refer to her arguments and 
submissions, I include those made on her behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had been members of Club Infiniti, a timeshare and holiday club, since 2002. 
Over the years they have entered into around a dozen contracts for timeshare and similar 
products. 
In September 2018 they entered into a contract for the purchase of 100,000 membership 
points. Of those points, 24,000 were traded and 76,000 were described as pure points. Mr 
and Mrs P could trade the points on an annual basis for holiday accommodation at various 
resorts linked to or operated by Club Infiniti. The points would expire at the end of 2057. 
The total cost of buying 100,000 membership points was £19,433.90. This was financed with 
a 15-year loan for that amount, provided to Mrs P by Honeycomb. 
In or around October 2021 Mrs P contacted Honeycomb to say that she thought the 
timeshare and the loan had been mis-sold. In summary, she raised the following issues:
pressure selling;
lack of availability of accommodation;
affordability of the loan; 
breaches of EU law;
misrepresentation; 
breach of contract; and
unfairness of the relationship with Honeycomb.  
Honeycomb did not accept that there had been any mis-sale or that it had any liability to Mrs 
P. It noted in particular: 
Mr and Mrs P had been members of Club Infiniti since 2002, so would have been 
familiar with its operation  including booking arrangements and the fee structure.
They had in fact booked several holidays in the previous two years. 
They had signed various declarations indicating their satisfaction with the sales process 
and the loan application. 
Honeycomb had considered information about Mr and Mrs Ps income before agreeing 
the loan.  
Mrs P did not accept Honeycombs response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs P asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision, I said:
 Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
The supplier here was Leisure Dimensions Limited, the company which sold the points and 
associated club membership. That company was also named as the credit intermediary. Im 
satisfied therefore that the arrangements between it and Honeycomb are such that sections 
56 and 75 could apply. I have therefore considered what Mrs P has said about 
representations made at the point of sale and about breaches of contract. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mrs Ps allegations are largely vague and unsupported by any evidence, either of what was 
said or that it was untrue. One of her main submissions is that accommodation was 
unavailable. In its response to her claim, however, Honeycomb listed eight holidays she and 
Mr P had taken between March 2018 and March 2020. Five of those had been taken since 
they signed the contract in 2018. Mrs P has not suggested that list is inaccurate or wrong, 
and neither has she provided any information about failed attempts to make bookings. So, 
where there is evidence relevant to Mrs Ps allegations, it actually contradicts what she has 
said. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs P signed  a declaration which included a statement that they had not 
received any promises that are not in writing. I do not believe they would have done that if 
their decision to buy the points had been based on something they had been told orally. 
Breach of contract 
Mrs P has not, in my view, identified any breach of contract. It appears that she has been 
provided with the service she paid for. 
Mrs P has suggested there are issues with the fairness of the management fees, but has not 
provided anything to indicate that they have been applied other than in accordance with the contract. In any event, I agree with Honeycomb that, having been members since 2002, Mr 
and Mrs P are likely to be familiar with how fees are applied and to be comfortable with 
those arrangements. They have not suggested for example that there was a change in the 
way the club operated after September 2018. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction within the 
meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act.   
I have therefore considered whether the sale and subsequent events are likely to mean that 
the loan agreement created an unfair relationship. I think it most unlikely that they did.
Mrs P has said that there were breaches of EU law in the sales process. The relevant EU 
Directive was incorporated into English law under The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 [the Timeshare Regulations]. It is not apparent 
however that there was any breach of those regulations here. Even if there were, that would 
not automatically give rise to a claim that Mrs P could bring against the seller. 
Mrs P says that she and her husband were put under pressure to complete the sale. But 
they signed a declaration which included: 
I/We agree that the presentation of the Club Infiniti product and services has been 
conducted in a friendly and helpful manner; and that it has been fully explained to me how 
the Infiniti Holiday Points Program can be used and how this Program will benefit me/us in 
the future.
And: 
I/we confirm that I/We have been given every opportunity to consider the purchase that I/we 
are making and we have not been put under pressure or coerced to purchase the products 
and services; and I/we also confirm that I/we have carefully considered other financial 
commitments and know that I/we are able to meet the financial obligations entered into 
hereby.
Again, I doubt they would have signed those declarations if they had in fact been put under 
pressure. At the very least, they would have sought to cancel the agreement in the 14 days 
available to them to do so.
As I have indicated, Mr and Mrs P had bought several Club Infiniti products over the years, 
and would no doubt have been familiar with the sales process. 
Only a court can make orders under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. I 
can however make a wide range of awards, and could, if I thought it fair and reasonable to 
do so, require a lender to, for example, refund loan payments or write off a loan. I do not 
believe however that I should do so here.
AffordabilityMrs P says that Honeycomb did not properly assess the affordability or suitability of the loan. 
It is however clear from the evidence that Honeycomb has submitted that it did obtain 
information about Mr and Mrs Ps income and expenditure. And I have seen no evidence to 
suggest that Mrs P had had any difficulty making payments. It does not follow of course that 
proper checks were made, but in the circumstances I am not persuaded that more detailed 
checks would have led to a different lending decision or a different outcome.   
I invited both parties to make further submissions, if they wished to do so. Honeycomb had 
nothing further to add, but Mrs P did make further arguments. As well as repeating some of 
her earlier submissions, she said, in summary:
In breach of regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations, the product had been sold 
as an investment. Mrs P was told it could be sold at a profit and that accommodation 
could be rented out to meet the costs of purchase.
Also in breach of the Timeshare Regulations, the necessary 14-day cooling-off period 
had not been provided. 
She had been assured that annual fees would increase by no more than inflation.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall largely confine my comments here to the further submissions made after I issued my 
provisional decision. I have not however seen anything which would cause me to alter the 
views set out in my provisional decision and which I have quoted above.
I note first of all that, while Mrs Ps representatives have made further arguments, they have 
provided no new evidence for me to consider. 
Mrs P says that the timeshare product was sold as an investment, contrary to regulation 
14(3). But Mr and Mrs P signed a declaration at the point of sale which included these 
statements:
2. I/We understand that this is an Infiniti Points based holiday purchase and I/we believe 
that it meets our future holiday needs that I/we will be able to use and enjoy.

15. I/we understand that I/we may sell our Infiniti Points at any time for any price, providing 
our annual fees and finance (if applicable) is paid up to date and correct transfer of 
membership is completed as required. However, I/We also understand that I/we have not 
entered into this purchase purely for a wider investment opportunity or financial gain.
16. MGM Muthu Hotels does not undertake the responsibility of guaranteeing any rental to 
third parties. In any case the member is obliged to notify MGM Muthu Hotels of the 
occupants details.
In my view this shows that, far from marketing the timeshare as an investment, the seller 
sought to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that it was anything but. They were buying a holiday 
product to meet their future needs, not something to sell at a profit. Their use of the 
timeshare indicates that they understood that. 
The allegation that no cooling-off period was provided is equally contradicted by the written 
evidence. The purchase contract included (on the same page as a template withdrawal 
notice):The consumer has the right to withdraw from this contract within 14 calendar days without 
giving any reason.
The right of withdrawal starts from 11/09/18 .
Where the consumer has not received this form, the withdrawal period starts when the 
consumer has received this form but expires in any case after one year and 14 calendar 
days.
Where the consumer has not received all the required information, the withdrawal period 
starts when the consumer has received that information, but expires in any case after three 
months and 14 calendar days.
To exercise the right of withdrawal, the consumer shall notify the trader using the name and 
address indicated below by using a durable medium (e.g. written letter sent by post, e-mail). 
The consumer may use this form, but it is not obligatory.
Where the consumer exercises the right of withdrawal, the consumer shall not be liable for 
any costs.
In addition to the right of withdrawal, national contract law rules may provide for consumer 
rights, eg, to terminate the contract in case of omission of information.
Mr and Mrs Ps initials appear on the same page.
Honeycomb provided Mrs P with pre-contract information about the loan. It included, in a 
section headed Right of withdrawal:
You have the right to withdraw from this agreement undersection 66A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, without giving a  reason, by writing to us at [address], or calling us on 
[telephone number] or emailing us at [email address]. Your right of withdrawal will start on 
the day after the later of the following events (a) the day the agreement is made; (b) the date 
on which we tell you that we have signed the agreement or (c) the date on which you receive 
a copy of the executed agreement. The withdrawal period will end 14 days after that day.
Mrs P also received an explanation of the loans key features, which included:
6. RIGHT TO WITHDRAW
You have the right to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days, without giving a reason, 
by writing to us at [address], or calling us on [telephone number] or emailing us at [email 
address]. Your right of withdrawal will start on the day after the later of the following: (a) the 
day the agreement is made; (b) the date on which we tell you that we have signed the 
agreement or (c) the date on which you receive a copy of the executed agreement. You 
must repay all of the credit provided to you under the agreement, together with the 
applicable interest, without delay and in any event within 30 days of the day that you tell us 
that you wish to withdraw. Interest will be charged on the amount of credit at the interest rate 
set out in the agreement from the date the agreement was made until the date the credit is 
repaid. We will tell you when you contact us how to repay the credit and interest (if any) to 
us. The daily amount of interest you will have to pay is £4.80.
And the executed loan agreement included:
You have the right under section 66A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to withdraw from 
this agreement without giving any reason before the end of 14 days beginning with the day 
after the later of either (a) the day on which the agreement is made or (b) the date on which 
we tell you that we have signed the agreement or (c) the date on which you receive a copy 
of the executed agreement. If you wish to withdraw you must give us notice by one of the 
following methods. Oral notice must be given to us by telephoning us on [telephone number].Alternatively, if you send notice by fax it must be sent to [fax number], by email to [email 
address] or you may post notice to or deliver notice by hand to [address]. If you do give us 
notice of withdrawal, you must repay to us the whole of the credit without delay and in any 
event by no later than 30 days after giving notice of withdrawal. You will also have to pay 
interest accrued on the credit from the date the agreement was made until the date you 
repay it. Interest will be charged at an amount of £4.80 per day. If you wish to pay by debit 
card please telephone us on [telephone number]. If you wish to pay by cheque please send 
it by first class post to us at [address] and allow 10 working days from the day you post the 
cheque to us to allow us to process the payment.
In my view, the evidence that Mrs P was given a cooling-off period  in respect of both the 
purchase contract and the loan  is not just persuasive, but convincing, and it is surprising 
that those representing her have sought to argue otherwise. 
As far as the annual fees are concerned, the pre-contractual information said this:
Procedure for calculating future annual Membership Fees and Points Fees:
Members are responsible for payment of all annual Membership Fees and Points Fees, and 
all maintenance and other fees payable by the Member to his Home Resort or Home Group 
in respect of any associated Ceded Accommodation.
The total of all Points Fees shall be based on the Developers estimate of the total costs of 
the Club in respect of, inter alia, the management fees due to the Resorts and corresponding 
to the Accommodation available within the Club, the cost of using Alternative 
Accommodation.
The total of all Membership Fees shall be based on the Developers estimate of the total cost 
of running, administrating, managing and supervising the Reservations operation and other 
services provided by it.
Individual annual Points Fees shall be calculated by reference to the number of Points rights 
held by a Member as a proportion of the total Points rights allocated to Members. The 
Developer reserves tins right to vary the basis upon which individual Membership Fees or 
Points Fees are calculated which may inter alia include a composite! fee structure including 
the RCI Enrolment Fee, Transaction Fee and External Exchange Fee if considered to be 
appropriate by the Developer.
Whilst the fees are linked to the costs of running the resorts, therefore, they are not directly 
linked to a specified rate of inflation. Given resorts are located in different countries, it is 
difficult to see how they could be. I do not believe that Mrs P was told that there would be a 
direct link to a specific measure of inflation. And, as I noted in my provisional decision, Mr 
and Mrs P signed a declaration to say that they had not relied on anything which was not in 
writing; and they were, of course, familiar with the fee structure and changes. 
In the circumstances, I do not need to consider whether any changes to the annual fees 
were or were not in line with any particular rate of inflation in any of the countries where the 
resorts are situated.    My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint and do not 
require Oplo PL Ltd to take any further steps to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman