DRN-4254152
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited didnt tell her of the 
timescales needed for her to complete a one-off withdrawal from her pension before the end 
of the 2021/22 tax year.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision which I issued last month. 
My provisional decisional said:
What happened
Mrs B holds a personal pension plan with Aviva. Mrs B wanted to complete a one-off 
withdrawal from her pension plan before the end of the 2021/22 tax year.
On 29 March 2022 Mrs B completed an online request to make a one-off withdrawal from 
her Aviva pension. Aviva say that Mrs B created two identical online requests on the same 
day.
Aviva generated an illustration for both withdrawal requests and Mrs B accepted one of 
these on 30 March 2022.
Aviva have said that Mrs B then completed another online withdrawal request for a different 
amount on 30 March 2022. To confirm which amount Mrs B wanted to withdraw from her 
pension, Aviva tried to contact her by telephone on 31 March 2022, and then again on 4 and 
5 April 2022. However, the telephone number Aviva had for Mrs B was out of date, so they 
were unable to speak with her.
Mrs B contacted Aviva on 5 April 2022 to find out what was happening with her pension 
withdrawal. She told Aviva that the withdrawal needed to be completed before the end of 
2021/22 tax year. This was because Mrs B had no other taxable income in that tax year, so 
wanted to make a withdrawal from her pension plan to use the remainder of her available 
income tax allowance.
During the telephone call Aviva established that the telephone number that they had been 
trying to contact Mrs B on was no longer in use. Aviva told Mrs B that because her online 
withdrawal request had been completed on 29 March 2022, then the earliest that the 
withdrawal would be completed would be 6 April 2022, so after the end of the 2021/22 tax 
year.
As the withdrawal couldnt be completed within the 2021/22 tax year Mrs B instructed that 
the withdrawal be cancelled.
Mrs B complained that when she completed her online withdrawal request there was no 
warning displayed which told her the cut-off date for this to be concluded before the end of 
the tax year. Mrs B also said that she had not been given any information on timescales 
applying beforehand.
Because Aviva had been unable to complete the one-off withdrawal in the 2021/22 tax year 
Mrs B said that she had been denied the chance to use her 2021/22 income tax allowance, 
which she says would have saved income tax at a rate of 20% on her planned withdrawal.
Mrs B said that Aviva should pay her compensation equal to the tax saving that she would 
have received had the withdrawal been completed in the 2021/22 tax year.
Aviva responded to Mrs Bs complaint. They agreed that they had not done enough to make 
Mrs B aware of the timescales involved in completing the pension withdrawal. Aviva paid 
Mrs B £100 to compensate her for the inconvenience that shed suffered as a result.
However, Aviva didnt accept that they should compensate Mrs B for the income tax she said 
she would not have paid had the withdrawal been completed in the 2021/22 tax year. They 
have said that Mrs Bs withdrawal request had been processed correctly. They also said that 
as Mrs B didnt submit her online request until 29 March 2022, this was too late for the 
withdrawal to be completed before the end of the 2021/22 tax year.
Mrs B didnt accept Avivas response to her complaint, so she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service examined Mrs Bs complaint. They 
concluded that as Mrs B had cancelled her withdrawal instruction before it could be 
processed in the 2022/23 tax year then she hadnt paid any extra income tax and therefore 
hadnt suffered a financial loss.
The Investigator did however think that Aviva should pay Mrs B £350, rather than £100 that 
theyd offered, to compensate for the inconvenience that shed suffered, which Aviva 
accepted.
Mrs B didnt accept the Investigators view. She said that shed been denied an opportunity 
to benefit from an untaxed pension withdrawal in the 2021/22 tax year. She asked for her 
complaint to be brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva say that they need a minimum period of five working days to process and complete a 
pension withdrawal request from when the illustration is accepted. I think that this timescale 
is reasonable.
As Mrs Bs first withdrawal request was submitted on 29 March 2022, and the illustration was 
accepted on 30 March 2022, then the earliest that the request would have been completed was 6 April 2022, which was after the end of the 2021/22 tax year.
I think that as Mrs B wanted to complete the withdrawal from her pension before the end of 
the 2021/22 tax year, then it would have been reasonable for her to have submitted her 
withdrawal request before 29 March 2022, so that she couldve been sure that the 
withdrawal would have been completed when she wanted.
Aviva needed to confirm the amount that Mrs B wanted to withdraw from her pension as she 
had requested illustrations for two different amounts, so they tried to contact her by 
telephone on 31 March, as well as on 4 and 5 April 2022. I therefore think that Aviva 
contacted Mrs B promptly after receiving her withdrawal request to clarify this point, but Mrs 
B hadnt given Aviva her updated telephone number.
Aviva were therefore unable to confirm the amount that Mrs B wanted to withdraw from her 
pension until she contacted them on 5 April 2022, the last day of the 2021/22 tax year.
I think that as Mrs B submitted her withdrawal application on 29 March 2022, and hadnt 
given Aviva her updated contact information, it wasnt unreasonable that Aviva were not able 
to complete the withdrawal before the end of the 2021/22 tax year.
I therefore dont think that Aviva did anything wrong when they received Mrs Bs pension 
withdrawal request. I think that Mrs B had left it late at the end of the tax year before she 
submitted her withdrawal request.
Also, Mrs B hadnt given Aviva her updated contact details. I think that whilst it was already 
unlikely that Aviva wouldve been able to complete the withdrawal before the end of the tax 
year, the fact that they were also unable to contact her made it even less likely that the 
withdrawal would complete when Mrs B wanted.
Aviva have also said that they could have improved their communication, and I think it 
reasonable that they want to improve what they do over time so that their customers are 
given a better idea of how long withdrawals can take. However, I dont think that this means 
that Aviva acted unreasonably when they dealt with Mrs Bs withdrawal request. I therefore 
dont think theres any reason to increase the compensation of £350 that Aviva has accepted 
as being a fair and reasonable amount to settle this case.
My provisional decision
I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited in so far as I 
consider £350 to be fair and reasonable compensation. As Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited have already paid Mrs B £100, they now need to pay her a further £250, so that the 
total sum paid to Mrs B is £350.
In my provisional decision I invited both Mrs B and Aviva to respond with any additional 
information or comments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
Both Mrs B and Aviva have responded to my provisional decision. Both parties have said 
that they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further comment to my provisional decision then I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached, as set out above. I therefore dont think theres 
any reason to amend the compensation of £350 that Aviva has accepted as being a fair and 
reasonable amount to settle this case.
Putting things right
Aviva need to pay Mrs B a further £250, in addition to the £100 theyve already paid her, to 
bring the total compensation payment to £350.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions 
UK Limited in so far as I consider £350 to be fair and reasonable compensation. As Aviva 
Life and Pensions UK Limited have already paid Mrs B £100, they now need to pay her a 
further £250, so that the total sum paid to Mrs B is £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman