DRN-3639818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the advice they received when they re-mortgaged to Bank of 
Scotland Plc (BoS) in 2021. They believe they were forced into accepting a mortgage term 
and interest rate product without being given any other options.
What happened
In 2021 Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with another lender in the same group as BoS. That 
mortgage had a remaining term of six years and three months, was for approximately 
£225,000 and arranged predominantly on an interest-only basis with an endowment policy in 
place at the repayment vehicle. Interest was being charged at the lenders standard variable 
rate, which was 4.55% at that time. By 2021 the existing lender didnt offer new lending or 
new interest rate products.
The BoS mortgage started in July 2021 and repaid the mortgage with the previous lender. 
The purpose of the re-mortgage was to allow Mr and Mrs P to gain access to an interest rate 
product. This meant that the starting point for the mortgage was that it would be for the 
amount needed to repay the existing one. The notes from the time show that there was a 
discussion with Mr and Mrs P about their circumstances and plans. 
Mr and Mrs P confirmed that they were concerned about interest rates increasing and so 
wanted a product that would guarantee their payments for five years. However, after that 
point, they wanted to be free to repay the mortgage without having to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) as they were planning to sell their home to their children in five to 
seven years. How the mortgage was going to be repaid if that didnt happen was also 
discussed. Mr and Mrs P wanted to continue with their existing repayment plan, which was 
that the interest-only part of their mortgage, of approximately £214,000 would be repaid 
using an existing endowment policy. BoS confirmed that the endowment policy wasnt 
entirely acceptable to it and recommended that they change more, or all, of the mortgage to 
a repayment basis. The file shows that calculations were made to establish how much a full 
repayment mortgage would be over various terms, but based on Mr and Mrs Ps budget of 
£963 (their then current mortgage payment), it wouldnt have been affordable. Mr and Mrs P 
were recorded as wanting to maintain their existing repayment arrangements. 
As such, BoS recommended a mortgage for the same amount and repayment arrangements 
as Mr and Mrs Ps existing one. The term was extended by a small amount due to BoS only 
being able to offer a mortgage term of full years, but stayed approximately the same to be in 
line with the repayment plan. A five-year fixed interest rate product of 1.39% was also 
recommended to be attached to the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs P accepted the recommendation and a mortgage offer was sent to them. This 
set out the details of the mortgage and the interest rate product that had been 
recommended. In relation to the product, it was also confirmed that there was an ERC 
attached to it, which reduced each year, until the end of July 2026. So if Mr and Mrs P repaid 
more than 10% of the mortgage in any year, an ERC would be applied until the end of the 
product term. Mr and Mrs P accepted the offer.
In the spring of 2022 Mr and Mrs P complained about the advice theyd received in 2021. 
BoS responded to the complaint in its final response of 20 July 2022.  It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It explained that the re-mortgage had been arranged so that Mr and Mrs P could 
change their interest rate. During the process a full interview was conducted to establish 
their needs and circumstances before any recommendation was made. It said that the 
issues dealt with in the complaint against the previous lender wouldnt have impacted their 
ability to consider other lenders and they could have sought independent advice about their 
options, had they wanted to.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with BoS response and asked this service to consider their 
complaint. One of our investigators did so, but she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She was satisfied that full discussions about the mortgage were had before BoS 
made a recommendation and that the mortgage was suitable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusion and felt that she was siding with 
BoS. They set out the events and circumstances of their previous mortgage and how the 
re-mortgage with BoS had come about. In relation to the discussions that took place at the 
time of the re-mortgage, they said that they had asked for a longer term to match the second 
charge loan they had, but were told the mortgage term had to match the term of the 
mortgage with the existing lender. They asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I will confirm the scope of this decision. I 
am considering under this complaint the advice Mr and Mrs P received in relation to the 
re-mortgage to BoS in 2021. While BoS and the previous lender are part of the same 
banking group, they are separate businesses and I cant hold BoS responsible for things that 
the previous lender did or didnt do. That said, I am aware of the events that led up to the 
point that BoS as a lender got involved in the events and how the re-mortgage to BoS came 
about. 
I would also comment at this point that when a consumer receives advice from a lender, the 
lender will, if it is able, provide the borrower with a recommendation for what mortgage to 
take out. That is the entire point of mortgage advice; that an expert recommends the best 
option possible for the borrower. That is of course restricted in the case of advice given by 
lenders, as they are only able to recommend from their own range of mortgages and 
products.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they were unable to re-mortgage elsewhere because of an 
issue with their credit file due to mistakes by the previous lender. While I cant comment on 
the complaint that was made about this issue, I have read the final response letter relating to 
it. Mr and Mrs Ps credit files were corrected at that time, and so, had they wanted to seek 
independent advice at that time or advice from a different lender, they could have done. I 
cant hold BoS responsible for their choice not to explore if they had any other options 
available to them in 2021 and their decision to accept the offer of advice from BoS.
Mr and Mrs P have said they asked for a longer term on the mortgage. That isnt recorded in 
the notes from the time, but it does seem that other terms were explored, at least in relation 
to whether a repayment mortgage would be affordable to them. That said, the term for an 
interest-only mortgage that is going to be repaid using an endowment, would usually be set 
to coincide as closely as possible with the maturity date of the endowment. As Mr and Mrs P wanted to use their existing endowment policy as the mortgage repayment vehicle, 
assuming their children didnt buy the property from them before that date, the term of seven 
years would fit with their plans. So I cant find it was inappropriate for BoS to recommend 
that term for the mortgage. 
As for the interest rate product recommended, I again cant find that the recommendation 
was inappropriate. The interest rate was significantly lower than what they had been paying 
on their previous mortgage and its term fitted with the plans Mr and Mrs P told BoS about. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the recommendation BoS made in 2021 doesnt appear to have 
been inappropriate for Mr and Mrs Ps needs and circumstances at that time. If they hadnt 
been happy with the mortgage offered, they had the option to decline the offer and seek a 
mortgage elsewhere. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman