DRN-1640737
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance ("PPI") policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card. Mr B took out the PPI during a 
phone call in 1996, around 12 years after taking the card. It covered him for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for this complaint. To keep things
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B didn't agree.
He said, in summary, that:
He and his wife had secure employment, good levels of sick pay and insurance cover 
for accidents, so didn't need the PPI.
He only agreed to it because he was told it would give him a better change of 
obtaining an increased credit limit on the card. He cancelled the PPI a short while 
later once he'd secured an increased credit limit.
If he'd known the policy was more expensive compared to others, he'd have 
considered other options.
It's doubtful AXA has been able to provide detailed information about the phone call 
that took place.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr B's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
As Mr B has indicated, this took place many years ago and I can't know exactly what was 
discussed during the phone call. So I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
AXA had to make Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding
PPI. Mr B had opened the account around 12 years earlier, so he would have known he 
didn't have to have the PPI. So I think AXA made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and 
that he chose to take it.But Mr B says he was led to believe he would obtain a higher credit limit on the card if he 
accepted PPI. I accept that's possible. But I don't expect Mr B to remember what was 
discussed 24 years ago and I think its also possible Mr B did want the PPI. After careful 
consideration, aside from Mr B saying he only took PPI to get a higher credit limit, I've not 
seen other evidence or testimony which would persuade me that Mr B was told he needed to 
take the PPI to obtain a higher credit limit. And I also think he would have cancelled the 
PPI sooner than he did if he took it on that basis - he didn't cancel the policy until more than 
three years later.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As he could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected his decision take out PPI. 
I've taken into account what Mr B says about the sick pay he would have received from his 
employer. And he told us that, together with his wife, they probably could have 
maintained the card payments for six months if Mr B couldn't work due to sickness or an 
accident. But the policy would have paid out until Mr B returned to work, or until the 
outstanding balance was repaid. And it covered him if he'd become unemployed. So I think 
Mr B must have thought at the time of the sale that the policy could provide him with a useful 
benefit.
The policy may have been more expensive than some other PPI policies, but it would have 
paid 15% of Mr B's card balance each month if he'd made a successful claim, which was 
more generous than some other PPI policies. And I don't find there was any obligation on 
AXA to make Mr B aware of products available from other providers.
Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman