DRN-4321902
The complaint
Mr V complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to pay him interest on monies that 
he holds in the Control Account that forms part of his Retirement Account.
What happened
Mr V holds pension savings with Scottish Widows. His pension savings are entirely held 
within what Scottish Widows terms a Control Account. Since 2020 that account has not paid 
any interest to consumers on the deposits held within it. In January 2023, at a time of rising 
interest rates, Mr V asked Scottish Widows why no interest was being paid on his monies.
Scottish Widows explained to Mr V that the Control Account wasnt intended for holding long 
term investments  it said it was simply to facilitate the movement of monies around the 
Retirement Account including the payment of any fees and charges. It explained that 
regulatory changes had meant it needed to stop paying interest in 2020, but it was currently 
reviewing the situation. Scottish Widows also noted that it hadnt dealt with Mr Vs complaint 
as promptly as it would have hoped  so it paid him £75 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed been caused.
Mr V was unhappy with that response so he referred his complaint to us. Mr Vs complaint 
has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong in the way it had managed the Control Account or the information it had 
provided to consumers about the relevant interest rates. So he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr V and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As the starting point for my consideration of this complaint I have looked at the information 
Scottish Widows has published about the Control Account and its intended use. There is a 
section specifically about that account in a booklet titled Your Guide to the Retirement 
Account. That booklet says;
Both parts of your Retirement Account have a Control Account. Payments in and out 
go through the Control Account, and the Service Charge is taken from it. Any 
amounts paid in will be used to buy units in the investments you choose. We'll 
automatically sell the correct amount of units to cover the Service Charge and any 
income you've asked for, and the income payments will then be made through the 
Control Account. The Control Account should not be used for long-term investing.
So I think it is clear from that description that Scottish Widows doesnt see the Control 
Account as part of the investment offering that it provides to consumers. Instead the account 
is transactional in nature, to be used to receive and pay monies into and out of a consumers 
retirement savings.
In my experience however a number of consumers have found the Control Account to be an 
attractive proposition for holding some or all of their retirement savings given that it 
effectively acts as a deposit facility and reduces the exposure of those pension savings to 
market movements. Even on cash investment funds there is a small risk of adverse 
investment performance given the inherent link to financial markets.
But the crux of Mr Vs complaint is that the Control Account used to pay some interest on the 
funds that were held in it by what Scottish Widows called Positive Balance Adjustments. 
The rate applying to those adjustments was reduced to 0% in March 2020. But, more 
recently, Scottish Widows has announced that, with effect from 1 October 2023, it will 
increase the rates of balance adjustment that it applies to the Control Account to reflect 
interest it earns on funds held in that account.
Mr V has said that in 2020 it wasnt surprising that the rate was reduced to 0% given the low 
level of interest rates at that time. But Scottish Widows has explained that wasnt the main 
reason for the change. Instead regulatory changes, commonly known as Basel 3, meant its 
bankers were no longer able to offer interest on the consolidated balances drawn from the 
monies held in the Control Accounts of its customers. Only recently has it been able to find a 
new solution to those changes, that has allowed the reintroduction of the positive balance 
adjustments.
I think that the rate of positive balance adjustment that Scottish Widows offers at any time is 
a commercial decision, and not something that should be interfered with by this Service. 
Indeed in its current proposals Scottish Widows is intending to retain up to 2% of any interest 
that it receives. I wouldnt consider it something I should become involved in even if 
Scottish Widows decided to retain all the interest it received on those balances.
What is of importance is that Scottish Widows provides clear and factually correct 
information to consumers about any positive balance adjustments that it will make. I can see 
that Scottish Widows has provided that information via its website.
What is also important here is whether any errors that might have been made caused Mr V 
to act differently. It seems that he was aware that a 0% rate of positive balance adjustment 
was being applied to the Control Account from March 2020 onwards. Knowing that didnt 
lead him to change his investment approach. I havent seen how the reduction to 0% was 
communicated to Mr V, if it even was. But even if I found the information Scottish Widows 
had provided when the rate was reduced might have been deficient I cannot reasonably conclude that it caused Mr V to act differently. He continued to use the Control Account 
knowing that no positive balance adjustments were being applied.
I havent seen anything in the terms and conditions of Mr Vs retirement account, or in any 
regulatory approaches, that requires Scottish Widows to pay Mr V any or all of the interest it 
might earn on the Control Account monies. I think Scottish Widows has previously clearly set 
out that positive balance adjustments would attract a 0% rate. And I think it has now 
explained when and what positive balance adjustments will be made going forwards. So 
whilst I understand that my decision will disappoint Mr V, I dont think that Scottish Widows 
has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman