DRN-2747001
The complaint
Mr E complains as the director of K, a limited company that First Data Europe Limited    
(First Data) responded unfairly to a chargeback dispute. 
What happened
K have a merchant servicing agreement with First Data.
In July 2020, K replaced a clutch for a customer and accepted a card payment of £319 for 
this work. In October 2020, a chargeback dispute was raised about this transaction - as Ks 
customer claimed the work hadnt been completed to a satisfactory quality. First Data said 
they could try and defend the chargeback, provided they received supporting evidence within 
a set timescale. However, they also said the disputed amount would be debited from Ks 
bank account straight away.  
In response, Mr E sent First Data evidence of the transaction and an invoice detailing the 
work that had been completed. He also asked that they raise a defence on Ks behalf.     
First Data therefore did this and said the money would be credited back to Ks account.
In November 2020, Mr E received a letter which said K owed First Data £319 in membership 
fees. He also received calls of a similar nature. Mr E said he shouldnt have received these 
payment requests as the disputed amount had already been credited back to Ks account. 
He also said no membership fees were outstanding. 
In December 2020, First Data informed Mr E that despite their attempt to defend the 
chargeback, the transaction was still disputed - so the money would be debited from Ks 
account again. They also said there wasnt anything more they could do in relation to the 
dispute.
Mr E then raised a complaint on Ks behalf, as he said K hadnt done anything wrong in 
relation to the work they completed for their customer. He also said First Data should have 
done more to help and Ks customer wasnt entitled to a refund. He also complained about 
the customer service K received. Specifically, he highlighted the inconvenience associated 
with First Datas contact in November 2020.
First Data didnt uphold the complaint as they said they hadnt done anything wrong. They 
also said there was nothing more they could do - as the submitted defence hadnt been 
successful and the disputed amount was now payable. 
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. She didnt uphold the matter 
either, as she said First Data had responded to the chargeback dispute in the way wed 
reasonably expect.
As this didnt resolve things for K - Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback 
I appreciate Mr E feels very strongly that Ks customer had no reason to dispute the quality 
of their workmanship, or to request a refund. However, that is a civil dispute between K and 
their customer  and I wont address it here. My decision only concerns the merchant service 
contract First Data have with K and whether First Data did anything wrong in the provision of 
those services.  
Chargeback is a process under the relevant card scheme, set up to settle disputes between 
card issuers and merchants. The schemes are voluntary, and the chargeback process is run 
by the relevant card scheme. The card scheme also sets out the rules when a chargeback is 
allowed as well as what the requirements are for the parties involved. Card payments will 
always carry a risk to the merchant because they can be reversed or charged back in certain 
circumstances.
First Data promptly contacted Mr E when they became aware of the chargeback. They also 
gave him the opportunity to provide evidence, so they could attempt a defence within the 
allowed timeframe. This is what Id reasonably expect them to do under the circumstances. 
First Data arent required to always submit a defence, but our service considers this to be 
good practice when there is a reasonable chance of success. I also note that First Datas 
operating guide says they will respond to a chargeback in this way whenever possible. It 
also says success is dependent on the correct timeframes being followed and the defence 
being accepted by the card issuer.
Despite First Datas efforts, the chargeback defence they raised on Ks behalf wasnt 
accepted by the card issuer. As they said the evidence provided wasnt sufficient to 
successfully dispute it. As such, Im satisfied First Data acted fairly by informing Mr E of the 
outcome and saying they would attempt to debit the disputed amount from Ks bank account 
again.
The terms of Ks merchant agreement with First Data are also relevant here. As they explain 
that K are liable for any successful chargebacks. So, while Mr E disputes the fact a refund 
was due and remains unhappy with Ks customer - I dont think First Data did anything wrong 
by declining to provide any further assistance. Im also satisfied they followed the correct 
chargeback process and were entitled to receive payment for the charged back amount.
Customer service
I asked First Data to explain the reasons they called Mr E in November 2020 and sent him a 
letter requesting K pay £319 in membership fees. In response, First Data explained that the 
outstanding fees related to the chargeback. They also said they needed to request payment 
in this way, as when they initially attempted to debit the amount from Ks account, they 
noticed the direct debit had been cancelled by Ks bank. 
First Data havent provided evidence to show the direct debit was cancelled, so I cant be 
certain their explanation is an accurate reflection of what happened. In any event, I do think 
the communication around this issue could have been clearer, as by November 2020,           
First Data had already told Mr E the disputed amount had been credited back to Ks account.
First Data have now told us theyd like to offer K £100 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this offer is a fair way to resolve the complaint, as £100 is a reasonable 
amount to compensate K, for any avoidable inconvenience they may have experienced due 
to this matter.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct First Data Europe Limited to pay K £100 
compensation as theyve recently offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman