DRN-2782233
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted AXA to make a claim for accidental damage to three TVs he owned. AXA 
investigated the claim and asked a range of questions, over a period of time, about the 
circumstances of the claim. Mr H objected to some of the questions because he found them 
unreasonable. After a while, AXA closed the claim because Mr H didnt reply to some of its 
questions.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to ask for further information and to ask Mr H to clarify some 
points, as AXA had found some inconsistent information when it was considering the claim.
As Mr H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr H, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will explain why.
Ive looked at what happened when AXA considered the claim, including listening to phone 
calls where Mr H was asked a range of questions, as well as being asked to provide 
photographs and video evidence. Im also aware that AXA asked some questions more than 
once during that process and asked Mr H to show it parts of his home. I can understand that 
Mr H might have found some of that repetitive and intrusive. Im also aware that Mr H has 
said that being asked the same questions over and over again can eventually lead to a slip 
up. So, Ive looked at whether AXA acted reasonably.
When Mr H made the claim for accidental damage, he explained to AXA that three TVs, all 
of which were stored in a shed at the time, had been damaged when one of the TVs fell and 
hit another TV, which then hit the third TV. When AXA investigated the claim, it identified 
some issues. These included Mr Hs description of how the damage happened not being 
entirely consistent and it not being possible to fully inspect the TVs and assess their 
condition at the time of the claim because the plugs had been cut off two of them and all of 
the TVs had been left outside, exposing them to the elements.
The policy required Mr H to assist AXA with its enquiries as part of dealing with a claim. 
Given there were some inconsistencies in what Mr H said and that AXA found there were 
issues with carrying out checks on the TVs themselves, I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
check the circumstances of the claim and to ask further questions. This included because it 
wasnt possible for AXA to inspect the TVs in the condition they would have been when Mr H 
first contacted AXA because of the plugs being cut off and them being exposed to the 
elements. 
As part of assessing the claim, AXA also wrote to Mr H to explain the outstanding issues, 
which gave him a further opportunity to consider what AXA wanted to check and its reasons 
for this. I think this also showed that AXA wanted to check a range of factors, rather than 
only a slip-up in Mr Hs explanation of how the damage happened. However, Mr H didnt 
reply, so AXA then closed the claim. Although I can understand that Mr H found some of that 
process unnecessary, in the circumstances, I dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in how it considered the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman