DRN-3395515
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the broker Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltds decision to cancel his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy on behalf of the insurer. 
For ease Ill refer to the broker as AJG in my decision. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr F bought a commercial vehicle insurance policy through a broker, AJG. AJG 
asked for verification documents from Mr F as requested by the insurer of the policy.
Mr F wasnt able to provide a V5 registration document to show he was the registered 
keeper of the vehicle. He said the seller had sent this to DVLA and it was outside of his 
control as to when he would receive this. There were further problems as the seller had put 
the wrong address on the form so Mr F didnt receive what he needed from the DVLA. 
AJG arranged for the policy cancellation to be postponed a number of times to allow time for 
the V5 registration document to reach Mr F. It eventually asked Mr F to complete an 
alternative form  a V62 form along with proof of postage to the DVLA. However, Mr F didnt 
agree to do this and wanted to contact the seller. Mr Fs policy was cancelled in September 
2021. 
Our Investigator thought the cancellation process had been fairly followed. So he didnt 
recommend any changes to this. But he thought there were times when AJG could have 
better communicated with Mr F. For the inconvenience caused, he recommended AJG pay 
Mr F £150 compensation. 
AJG accepted the Investigators recommendation. Mr F didnt agree. He is very unhappy 
with the way AJG handled things. He is also very unhappy with having to pay the balance of 
the yearly premium to the insurer on cancellation as a claim had been made under the 
policy. 
Mr F says he wishes he had applied for the V62 form sooner but he didnt have any 
confidence in AJG that it would prevent the cancellation of his policy. Mr F says the impact of 
the cancellation and having to pay the balance of the premium has been severe; both 
financially and personally. 
Our investigator has explained to Mr F his options regarding the complaints he has about the 
insurer and the way the claim was dealt with.
Mr F wants an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read of the impact the cancellation of the policy has had on Mr F. Ive taken an 
even handed approach when looking at what each party says about the complaint and 
whether AJG in their role as a broker acted reasonably. 
Mr F bought the policy in April 2021. AJG told Mr F that the insurer would only be able to 
provide cover for 21 days if it didnt receive verification documents in order to support the 
cover it provided. These documents included registration of the vehicle to Mr F: a V5 
document.
I understand there were difficulties in providing this document and these were outside of Mr 
Fs control. However I can also see that AJG arranged for the cancellation to be postponed a 
number of times until September 2021  six months after the policy started. And I think that it 
was possible for Mr F to provide the alternative documents AJG asked for: a V62 form with 
proof of postage. At this point I dont think it was unreasonable for the cancellation of the 
policy to go ahead when Mr F didnt provide the V62 form. This was something within Mr Fs 
control to prevent the cancellation of the policy in September 2021. I think he had been given 
a very reasonable period of time for cover to continue up until this point. 
There were times when AJG issued correspondence confirming the cancellation of the policy 
when it agreed to extend the date. But I can see that it corrected this position promptly with 
Mr F. 
Mr F says he lost wages of between £300 and £600 a day as a result of the cancellation and 
he doesnt think it fair he has to repay the balance of the cancelled policy. We also look at 
what a customer did to mitigate their circumstances. In this case I cant say that AJGs 
actions in processing the cancellation were unreasonable or led to Mr F being prevented 
from buying alternative insurance so as to continue earning a living. 
But I think AJG should pay compensation for the inconvenience it caused by its poor 
communication at times. I think an award of £150 is fair in this case. I understand Mr F says 
it isnt enough and has compared it to the balance premium he owes the insurer. But as the 
Investigator explained, the Insurers handling of the claim and the premium owed is separate 
to my decision about the actions of the broker AJG.
I realise Mr F will be very disappointed with my decision. But Im upholding it in part. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd to pay Mr F £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
its poor service caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman