DRN-3031188
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloydss offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss B paid was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
Miss B told us that PPI had been sold to her on the phone. But Ive seen a copy of the 
application form Miss B completed for the credit card and PPI, and it seems most likely to 
me that the cover was sold in a Lloyds branch. I cant know what was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at the 
documentary evidence thats available from the time. I have taken account of what Miss B 
said, but as she thought cover was sold on the phone, its not entirely clear to me how much 
she remembers about the sale. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Miss B would have known that the PPI was 
optional, and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Although the cover was sold 
in a branch of Lloyds, it looks as though Miss B completed the application form herself. I can 
see there were two equally prominent boxes on that form to complete in respect of PPI  one 
to mark she wanted a policy, and another to indicate she did not. Miss B has ticked the yes 
box. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think it would have been clear to Miss B 
that if she didnt want cover, she could have just ticked the no box. I can see Miss B refused 
another addition to the card that was offered at the same time. Overall, I think Miss B knew 
she had a choice about the cover. 
As the PPI was sold in a Lloyds branch, Ive treated this as an advised sale. So Lloyds had 
to check the PPI was right for Miss B. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at the limited 
information we have about Miss Bs personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 5% of Miss Bs credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work because of sickness 
or redundancy for up to 12 months. Her card balance would have been repaid in full in the 
unfortunate event of her death. 
In the PPI questionnaire, Miss B said she wouldnt have had any contractual sick pay from 
her employer if she was out of work. But the employer she told us about in that questionnaire 
wasnt the same as stated on her application form. I can see our adjudicator tried to clarify 
Miss Bs circumstances with her representative, but no substantive reply was received. On 
that basis, I have inferred that Miss B would have had some contractual sick pay, but I think 
its most unlikely her full pay would have lasted for more than 12 months. So I think the PPI 
would have offered benefits over and above those from her employer. 
It looks as though Miss B had been in her job for around a year when the cover was sold. 
Given that length of service, I think its most likely the PPI would have lasted for considerably 
longer than any redundancy entitlement she may have had. And I understand Miss B didnt 
have any other means with which to meet her repayments if she was out of work. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations would have 
prevented her from being able to make a successful claim. I can see Miss B had some 
mental health difficulties in 1995, and she was prescribed medication at that time. The 
evidence doesnt suggest that Miss B was still having those difficulties when the PPI was 
sold to her six years later. And I note those representing Miss B did not take issue with our 
adjudicators conclusion that this condition was not troubling her in 2001.  On that basis, I 
cant say any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions rendered the policy 
unsuitable.  
Those representing Miss B made substantial representations about what it believed to be 
additional policy limitations around back and mental health conditions. But having 
considered the policy document at some length, Im satisfied there were no such restrictions 
for this cover. There was nothing about Miss Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. All in all, I think Lloyds PPI recommendation probably was suitable 
for Miss B. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Miss B enough information about the policy so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information Lloyds gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive 
found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss B as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So it seems like it could have been useful for her if something went wrong 
with her job. Because of this I dont think Miss B would have declined the cover had Lloyds 
given her more or better information about it. 
Overall, I consider that Miss B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, which 
it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss B about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. So taking into account: the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Miss B wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had they known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Miss 
B should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiporder to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of commission 
before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Miss B paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss B 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Miss B compensation on this basis, I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Miss B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Lloyds 
Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, it does not need to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman