DRN-3645721
The complaint
Mr B complains St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) provided unsuitable advice 
and poor service. 
He complains that SJP recommended he invest partly in a money fund in case investment 
markets fell in future and that SJP then failed to advise him to move from this into investment 
markets at a suitable time. 
He seeks redress for lost investment return, a refund of fees he paid for services he says 
werent provided to the level agreed, and redress for the stress and inconvenience he says 
all this caused him.
What happened
Mr B invested alongside his partner who received the same advice and he and his partner 
had interactions with SJP on behalf of them both. So when referring below to things said or 
done by Mr B, I include things said or done by his partner on his behalf. 
In March 2020 Mr B approached SJP because the stock market had fallen to what he says 
he saw as an unusually low level and he wanted to invest. An advice meeting with SJP took 
place online on 25 March. As a result Mr B made two payments of around £21,000 to use his 
£20,000 ISA allowances for the 2019/20 and 2020/2021 tax years (around £1000 in charges 
being deducted each time). The first payment was invested on 3 April with 50% in a money 
fund and the second on 20 April with 40% in the money fund. A 31 March SJP advice report 
covered the first payment and a 7 April advice letter covered the second payment.
SJP says its recommendation of the money fund was in response to concerns Mr B had 
about investing in the stock market at the time. Mr B disagrees and says keeping money out 
of the market in the money fund was SJPs idea. He says SJP suggested he use the money 
fund - which invested in cash and cash-like instruments rather than in shares - so that he 
might benefit if the stock market fell in future. He says he understood SJP would advise him 
on when to move into the market and he expected this to happen relatively quickly. But this 
still hadnt happened a year and a half later. 
Mr B says he didnt mean to keep his money in cash for that long because if he had he 
wouldve just kept it in a bank account. He says he didnt think it would be left to him to make 
contact at the right time and if he had he wouldve used a cheaper provider. He says he paid 
SJPs fees and put money into the ISA in order to invest in the market. But he says there 
was little contact from SJP compared to what he had expected.
SJPs 31 March 2020 advice report said Mr B was very keen to take advantage of the 
markets current position. It assessed his agreed investment risk profile as Medium Risk. 
It said this meant: You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at 
least five years. You want the potential to achieve better long-term returns and are 
comfortable with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some of it 
overseas. You realise there may be significant falls in the value of your investments.
The report said the money fund is not consistent with your attitude to risk for this plan as it is 
below your attitude to risk. But it said the fund was recommended because the markets are 
so unstable at present. It said the fund aimed to preserve capital and maintain liquidity and 
that Mr B also wished to benefit from pound cost averaging and to avoid the risk of a post-
investment market shock having a marked adverse impact on the value of your investment. 
The report also said: You would like the benefit of my guidance going forward, and you 
strongly believe that active management of your funds will help to achieve your long-term 
financial goals. It also said: You will assess the market on a regular basis and contact me 
to arrange the transferring of funds. 
The 7 April 2020 advice letter referred to the 31 March report and gave the same reason for 
using the money fund. It also said, of the fund selection as a whole: I recommend this fund 
selection because it provides you with a level of equity exposure which we agreed was 
desirable and commensurate with your risk outlook and investment time horizon whilst 
spreading investment under the regular monitoring of managers by the St Jamess Place 
Investment Committee.
The letter also said: You think equities will bring the greatest opportunity for growth over 
time but note that they tend to bring the greatest volatility too. You accept this in order to try 
and maximise your growth potential. Like the March report it also said: You will assess the 
market on a regular basis and contact me to arrange the transferring of funds.
The letter also said: As part of my ongoing service, I will continue to conduct annual face to 
face reviews and be available to meet if your circumstances change during the year. I will 
also be available to speak on the telephone between review meetings to discuss any 
financial matters important to you if your needs change. During our review meetings, I will 
fully review your financial goals and adapt to any changes and if applicable review and 
rebalance your investment portfolio and fund choices. I can also send you regular financial 
communications tailored to you and your interests.
There was an automatic transfer facility which if used wouldve been used to automatically 
move money at regular intervals from the money fund into the other, riskier, funds Mr Bs ISA 
held. SJP says this facility wasnt used because Mr B wanted to control the timing of such 
moves. Mr B says the facility wasnt used because he expected all the money to go into 
riskier funds within a short time, so he didnt need to drip-feed it in. SJPs 7 April 2020 letter, 
referring to the selection of the money fund, said: this is intended to be a short term plan 
only intending to protect your funds being moved into new investment funds over the next 
few months, aiming to avoid volatility should the markets become even more unstable.
Mr B says the contact with SJP over the months that followed had to be initiated by him 
rather than being set up by SJP. There were calls between him and SJP on 25 August 2020 
and 29 October. SJP has no record of what was said. Mr B says he contacted SJP about 
moving from the money fund. He has said the calls were made at times he thought might be 
good times to invest in markets  just as his decision to start the ISA had been prompted by 
the same idea. He says SJP talked him out of moving into the market during the calls  just 
like he says SJP had talked him out of investing fully in the market at the start. 
SJP says Mr B made his own decision not to invest in October 2020 due to the potential for 
a second pandemic lockdown and that generally more wasnt moved into the stock market 
because Mr B wasnt sure about doing this when it was discussed at those times. SJP also 
claims it suggested Mr B use a fixed interest fund instead of the money fund but he rejected 
this. Mr B maintains that SJP told him it wasnt the right time to move into the stock market in 
October 2020. Mr B says he messaged SJP on 29 April 2021 to highlight his concerns as the market had 
increased since the October 2020 conversation by over 25% in 6 months. SJP has a call 
note for 5 May 2021, which it says was the annual review. This says Mr B had: made large 
gains since investing but hold 50% of their portfolio in cash pending investment. Wished they 
had moved funds across sooner but did not want to commit to any decision just yet. SJP 
says it suggested using fixed interest investments in the meantime instead of the money 
fund, but says Mr B wasnt interested in that.
In September 2021 a letter from SJP to Mr B noted that he hadnt intended to remain in the 
money fund for so long and was disappointed with missed growth but didnt wish to invest at 
that time due to pandemic concerns linked to school term starting. Mr B agrees the potential 
for the pandemic to affect the market put him off moving more into the market at that time 
but points out that the market was already 30% up by then since October 2020. From what 
he has said, he didnt want to rush into the market at that point because - having missed out 
already on a 30% increase - he didn't want to make it worse by investing at a time when he 
perceived a risk that might lead to a market fall.
The September 2021 letter said SJP left fund switching information with Mr B at that time. It 
also claimed that moving into the market had been discussed by SJP with him on several 
occasions, although it didnt detail these occasions.
Mr B says SJP didnt give a good reason for why the funds hadnt been invested when he 
met SJP face to face. SJP says this refers to a September 2021 meeting but Mr B refers to it 
as October 2021. Mr B says he felt SJP was rushing him into making a decision at that point. 
He has said he remained in the money fund until January 2022 when his new adviser 
reinvested the money. He has said the service from his new adviser in his view highlighted 
that SJP had lacked attentiveness previously.
Mr B says he is aware that stock market movements cant be predicted but he was led to 
believe that SJPs advisers, with help from fund managers, could advise customers as to the 
best plan of action, taking into account their attitude to risk.  Mr B has also told us that during 
exchanges with SJP he considers SJP asked him what he thought rather than offering its 
advice or an opinion. He has also said the situation was stressful and caused discomfort on 
account of family members having existing relationships with the same SJP adviser, which 
meant he hadnt wanted to complain.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought the money fund wasnt consistent 
with SJPs assessment of Mr Bs risk attitude as medium or with his desire to invest over 
the medium to long term. But our investigator thought Mr B wished to keep some money out 
of the stock market in the short term and that the advice to use of the money fund was 
suitable with that in mind. Our investigator noted this was expected to be a short-term 
measure and that SJPs advice letter said Mr B would assess the market on a regular basis 
and contact SJP to arrange the transferring of funds. 
But our investigator noted SJPs March 2020 report had said SJP would be conducting 
regular reviews of your circumstances to ensure the course of action taken today remains 
appropriate, as it is likely your objectives and circumstances will change over time. Our 
investigator thought SJP hadnt done enough to fulfil its agreement to provide ongoing 
advice to review your investment and ensure it remains appropriate. In particular, our 
investigator thought SJP hadnt done enough, during its exchanges with Mr B,  to remind him 
that the money fund remained inconsistent with his risk attitude - given that he had continued 
to hold money there for longer than had been planned initially. For example our investigator 
thought this shouldve been discussed in the May 2021 meeting and the meeting note didnt 
show it had been discussed and most likely it hadnt been discussed. Overall our investigator thought this meant SJP hadnt given Mr B the ongoing advice he had 
paid for and thought SJP should refund the ongoing advice fee it charged for its service in 
the first year (but not the fee for the initial advice). SJP has told us this ongoing advice fee 
was around £230 in the first year (the illustration for the first £21,000 investment shows a 
figure of a little over £100 for that investment). 
Our investigator also thought that SJPs failings, such as its failure to give Mr B the ongoing 
service it had led him to expect, had caused Mr B worry - for example about what to do with 
his holding in the money fund - and SJP should pay him £300 for this.
But our investigator also thought Mr B had likely been reluctant to invest more in the stock 
market due to ongoing pandemic risks. So our investigator didnt say SJP should pay Mr B 
for the growth he wouldve had if instead of remaining in the money fund hed invested in the 
way SJP had advised him to invest the rest of the money in his ISA, which had grown more 
over the period.
SJP rejected our investigators view on the basis that its adviser wasnt permitted to make 
recommendations on the timing of fund switches and SJP would not expect its adviser to 
actively recommend fund switches in light of market volatility. SJP says its approach isnt 
based on attempting to time market entry correctly but based instead on time in the market. 
Also its advice letter had said Mr B would be responsible for timing the investments, when it 
had said to him: You will assess the market on a regular basis and contact me to arrange 
the transferring of funds. Also its advice letter had noted the fund selection with the money 
fund was intended as a short-term plan only. SJP didnt think it couldve done more to assist 
Mr B than it did and said it wouldve been clear to him that he would lose out on market 
growth if the market rose and he remained in the money fund.
SJP also says the first review meeting was due around April 2021. It says the October 2020 
call took place before then but at a time  six months on from the initial advice  when a 
move from the money fund ought to have been considered given that the fund was only 
suitable for short-term use. Overall SJP considered the service it had given Mr B was 
satisfactory and in line with its offering and its promises.
Mr B didnt provide anything new in reply to the investigators assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions accord with those arrived at by our investigator and Ive 
arrived at them for broadly similar reasons. Ive briefly summarised these below.
SJP advised Mr B to invest partly into funds with stock market risk that it said matched the 
medium risk profile it had assessed him as having  and he followed that advice. SJP didnt 
recommend Mr B fully invest the ISA in line with that medium risk profile. Its advice letter 
said the money fund was used for the rest of his money as a short term plan and to protect 
your funds and in case markets become even more unstable and that the money would be 
moved into new investment funds over the next few months. 
Also SJPs advice letter said Mr B wished to benefit from pound-cost averaging. This 
means that rather than moving all his ISA money into investment funds in one go, it would be 
moved at more than one point in time and be kept in the money fund in the meantime.
This approach was taken because, according to SJPs advice letter, Mr B was concerned to avoid the impact of a future market shock. Mr B says keeping money out of the market in the 
money fund was SJPs idea (and it was certainly SJPs recommendation) and he 
approached SJP to invest and take advantage of market falls that had occurred (as noted 
also in SJPs advice documents). 
Ive thought about all this carefully. It was SJPs role, as adviser, to discuss risks as part of 
the advice process, even if Mr B wasnt very concerned about downside market risk. So it 
was legitimate for SJP to bear in mind in its advice and discussions with Mr B that markets 
rise and fall and that recent market falls might reverse but might also continue. 
SJPs advice to use the money fund with a view to moving into the market in the near future, 
in my view wasnt inconsistent with Mr Bs recorded desire to take advantage of the recent 
market falls. I bear in mind that money kept secure in the money fund would be available to 
take advantage of lower market prices if these arose due to further market falls. 
Also Im satisfied Mr B understood the nature of the money fund and knew that money there 
was protected if stock markets fell, as they had over previous weeks, but wouldnt benefit 
from a stock market recovery. SJP made clear the money fund was not a medium risk but a 
low risk fund. Whether to avoid the risk of loss in the short term or to try to better his return in 
the long term, it is apparent that in accepting SJPs advice Mr B was open to the idea of 
waiting to see if there was a better moment to invest some of his money. Im satisfied the 
approach taken reflected his view of markets and his willingness to take risk at the time. 
In saying all this, I dont overlook that SJP says its approach is based on time in the market 
not on trying to time the market and says it wouldnt advise fund switches in light of market 
volatility. But it is apparent that SJP in this case advised the use of a money fund in the short 
term due to market volatility it noted existed at the time. Also, just as its clear the money in 
the money fund was expected to be moved into investment markets within months, its clear 
that whether the time was right for this was to be judged based on future market conditions 
and not on a pre-planned investment date or dates. No plans for particular investment dates 
were made and SJP didnt set up a regular investment facility to feed money into the market. 
Instead SJPs advice documents said Mr B would assess the market on a regular basis. 
Mr B says he understood SJP would advise him on when to move into the market. As noted 
above, SJPs advice documents said it would be for Mr B to monitor the market with a view 
to contacting SJP about moving his funds. From what Ive seen, I dont think SJP said it 
would monitor markets with a view to letting Mr B know when a good time to invest arrived. 
SJPs advice documents promised to set up an annual review but didnt promise to arrange 
other meetings. Also, as for identifying a good time to invest, SJP wasnt in a position to 
know how market prices might change in future. Ultimately it was for Mr B to decide whether 
or when he wished to invest in markets. 
That said, I agree with our investigator that, having recommended the money fund on the 
basis that money there would be moved to new funds over the next few months, SJP ought 
to have done more to follow up on the situation. I bear in mind here that Mr B did not make 
contact in the manner anticipated and continued with his money fund holding for longer than 
had been planned. More than four months passed before the August 2020 call, for example. 
It was plainly foreseeable that as a lay person seeking SJPs advice Mr B might not identify a 
suitable investment point as planned and that the plan SJP left Mr B with might not work as 
intended. Also I bear in mind that the money fund SJP had advised Mr B to use was, 
according to SJP, a fund designed for short term use only. So the position would seem to 
require review sooner than the usual annual review that SJP would set up.
Mr B says when he did speak to SJP it dissuaded him from moving into markets. I dont 
doubt that when Mr B contacted SJP it was to discuss moving from the money fund. The fact money wasnt invested shows that SJP didnt recommend that he move his money. With the 
benefit of hindsight it can be seen that advice to move sooner would have produced a better 
result in October 2020 at least. But I cant fault SJP for not pinpointing when markets might 
turn or for not being able to accurately predict whether a market recovery would continue or 
reverse. Also Ive no evidence that SJP gave Mr B misleading or inaccurate information 
during those calls.
I note in passing that if SJP did advise Mr B during those calls to wait like he says, then SJP 
did provide guidance of the kind he says he was seeking, although with hindsight it wouldve 
been better to invest sooner. That said, SJP maintains that it didnt give guidance or advice 
like this and it says Mr B made his own decision not to move from the money fund each time. 
Whether advice or guidance was given by SJP or not, it was for Mr B to decide whether or 
when to move from the money fund and SJP couldnt know what the right answer was from a 
market timing standpoint or make that decision for him. Ultimately it seems to me that Mr B 
decided not to move from the money fund and Im satisfied he was aware of the implications 
of that decision on an ongoing basis and each time he made it.
Overall I agree with our investigator that the recommendations SJP gave at the outset were 
suitable but there were shortcomings in the level of service it gave afterwards given that the 
advice hadnt resolved the situation of part of Mr Bs ISA investment for anything other than 
the very short term. In reaching my view I do also give some weight to what Mr B has said 
about his expectations. He accepts stock market movements cant be predicted but believed 
SJP would give him some sort of guidance in this area. SJP says it wouldnt even attempt 
this. It does seem SJP failed to convey to Mr B the limitations to or extent of the assistance it 
was likely to give to him after he accepted its advice to use the money fund. In my view that 
was a failing and will have contributed to Mr Bs disappointment.
That said, like our investigator and based on the interactions that did take place, Im not 
persuaded that more frequent or pro-active interactions by SJP would have led to a different 
or more favourable investment outcome. I dont think SJP was wrong if it did point out that 
markets could fall further, and it wasnt able to point out when a market recovery was about 
to take place. But I do think SJP not being as proactive as I think it ought to have been is 
likely to have contributed to the stress Mr B has said arose from this situation.
In conclusion I share our investigators view that SJP didnt give Mr B the ongoing service 
that it ought to have given him. To compensate him for this I think it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances here for SJP to refund the ongoing advice fee it charged 
for the first year. I also think SJP should pay Mr B £300 for the stress and disappointment 
which I find arose from SJPs shortcomings.
Putting things right
To put things right St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should refund to Mr B the first 
years charges for ongoing advice and pay him £300 for distress and inconvenience caused 
to him by the failings Ive identified above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman