DRN-4388290
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund her in full after she was 
the victim of a romance scam.
What happened
Miss A was contacted by someone after joining a dating site in early August 2022. Ill refer to 
this person as E in my decision. E and Miss A began communicating daily about everyday 
things and a relationship started to develop. They shared photos and discussed a future 
together. Miss A and E were arranging to meet when E said he needed to go abroad to do a 
presentation to bid for a contract on a rig. He was successful and stayed on the rig to wait for 
materials to arrive to complete the work. While E was away, he and Miss A continued to 
communicate regularly and spoke to each other but there were a lot of problems with the 
connection and calls being cut off. E told Miss A he took a burner phone on the rig and 
couldnt send photos. 
E said his internet connection wasnt great and there was evidence of this from his 
communications with Miss A. He asked her to transfer over £2.6m for the materials from his 
business account on his behalf and provided her with his log in details. Miss A was able to 
see that the balance of the account was £4,678,656. He then asked Miss A to transfer more 
funds to a logistics company for shipment of the materials, but the account was blocked. E 
looked into this and told Miss A that his bank wouldnt unblock the account until he had 
attended in person in the United States  which wasnt possible while he was working on the 
rig. 
E stressed the importance of completing the contract, saying that if everything went well, he 
would be awarded future contracts. He asked Miss A to send various emails on his behalf to 
explain the position and then to ask if the logistics company would accept 80% of the 
amount due for the time being. E tried various means to raise funds to go to his agent to pay 
for the materials on his behalf. His mum provided funds and a friend, who E asked Miss A to 
communicate with, provided a loan. But he was still short of just over £3,000. Miss A made a 
faster payment to a UK account on his behalf to cover this.
E then claimed to have further issues related to customs fees which needed to be paid in a 
short timeframe and then fees to transport materials to the rig and unload them. Some of 
these fees were funded by others but Miss A also helped E.  Miss A made the following 
payments as requested by E:
Date Amount Information
28/09/22 £3,135 UK faster payment
11/10/22 £1,800 + £25 fee International payment
21/10/22 £1,480 + £25 fee International payment
Total £6,465
E continued to ask for payments for more spurious reasons including a flight. Miss A 
researched the cost of the flight and found it to be much less than E had suggested. She 
realised she was the victim of a scam and contacted Santander on 18 November 2022.
Santander said that it should have provided an effective warning in respect of payment one 
and didnt. But as Miss A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing E was genuine, it 
would only refund 50% of this payment. Turning to the international payments, Santander 
noted these arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code) and said it wasnt responsible for them. Santander tried to recover 
Miss As lost funds but wasnt successful in doing so.
Miss A was unhappy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
noted that the CRM Code only applies to the first payment and said that none of the 
exceptions to reimbursement set out in the code applied, so Santander should refund the 
remaining 50% of this payment. The subsequent two payments were international payments 
which arent covered by the CRM Code. These payments werent so unusual that Santander 
ought to have intervened when they were made, so the investigator didnt recommend they 
be reimbursed. 
Santander said Miss A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing E was the person he said 
he was or that she was paying for genuine goods and services when she made the first 
payment and that there were so many red flags she should have completed additional 
checks. In particular, Santander said:
- E stated he had an agent abroad so its unclear why he asked Miss A to transfer the 
funds. 
- E claimed to have no internet access but communicated with Miss A via methods that 
required such access. 
- Miss A had doubts about the legitimacy of E as images she received didnt match his 
profile picture as well as suspicions about the legitimacy of what she was being 
asked to do but went ahead anyway. 
Miss A also didnt agree with the investigators findings. I have summarised her main points 
below:
- What the investigator said in respect of the first payment was correct and nothing 
changed when she made the subsequent payments, which should be taken into 
account when considering the international payments. 
- The second and third transactions were unusual as she had never made an 
international payment before, and the payments werent low value, so Santander 
should have intervened. Miss A said she wasnt provided with any prompts or 
warnings.
- Had Santander done more when the first payment was made and acted in line with 
the CRM Code the following transactions wouldnt have been made. 
- Miss A questioned what protection is available for international payments. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
I am so sorry to hear all that has happened to Miss A  not just the scam itself but also the 
impact all of this is having on her. There is no dispute that Miss A has been a victim of a 
cruel scam and I am deeply sorry for that, but it doesnt automatically mean Santander 
should refund her under the CRM Code or under Santanders wider obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Miss A authorised the payments. 
Ive considered whether Santander should have reimbursed Miss A under the provisions of 
the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
The first transaction made by Miss A is covered by the CRM Code, which Santander has 
signed up to. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Santander says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It says 
that Miss A made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the 
person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the 
person or business she was transacting with was legitimate. 
The CRM Code sets standards for Santander to meet. As Santander has already refunded 
50% of the transaction covered by the code, which is what Id expect Santander to do if it 
didnt meet its standard in respect of providing an Effective Warning, I dont need to 
consider this point. 
Having considered the evidence, I am satisfied that under the terms of the CRM Code, 
Santander should have refunded the money Miss A lost when she made the first payment. I 
am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case and will explain why. 
Having read the messages E sent to Miss A its clear that he quickly made her feel special 
and loved and that they had a future together. By the time Miss A made the first payment E 
had trusted her to log into his online banking and transfer funds on his behalf. Miss A 
questioned this, and E told her she was his partner and he trusted her. The fact that E was 
prepared to trust Miss A to this extent would have been very reassuring to her. Miss A had 
also sent and received multiple emails on behalf of E in connection with his business, 
making it seem legitimate and reinforcing the trust E had in her. The emails she received tied 
in with the information E gave Miss A in the messages he sent her. And E had demonstrated 
that he had sufficient funds to meet the order, and so to repay Miss A  as shed seen his 
balance far exceeded the huge sum he asked her to transfer to pay for materials. 
I have considered the points raised by Santander in support of its decision only to reimburse 
half of Miss As loss, but they dont persuade me it can fairly rely on an exception to 
reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. Its very clear from the messages Miss A and E 
exchanged and their attempts to speak to each other in calls and to communicate by chat 
were hampered by poor connection and that calls dropped. So, Es assertion that he was 
unable to use his internet banking facilities was more credible. And whilst Miss A 
commented that E didnt look like his profile picture when they first communicated, he built 
her trust over nearly two months before she agreed to make any payments. 
This was a sophisticated scam and its important to note that there is no standard of care or 
specific responsibilities placed on customers via the CRM Code, and in any event, the code does not bind customers. This is something the Lending Standards Board pointed out in its 
2022 Review of adherence to the CRM Code. Overall, Im satisfied Santander should 
reimburse the first payment made in September 2022 in full.
Ive gone on to consider the subsequent international transfers. The investigator is correct 
that these arent covered by the CRM Code as it only covers payments between GBP-
denominated UK domiciled accounts. There is no alternative code that applies to these 
payments, but I need to consider Santanders long-standing responsibility to be on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
I appreciate that the amount Miss A has lost is significant to her and that she hadnt 
previously made international transfers, but I dont consider the two international payments 
she made to have been so unusual that Santander ought reasonably to have spoken to her 
and asked her questions about them. The value of each payment was relatively small and 
there was over a week between payments. Miss As account balance also wasnt drained 
(which might indicate, for example, a safe account scam). Theres also a balance to be 
struck; banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers 
best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause 
unnecessary disruption to many legitimate payments.
Santander tried to recover Miss As funds but wasnt successful in doing so. It is rare that a 
bank is able to recover funds from an international bank and they are not covered by the 
same obligations as UK banks. 
Miss A has said that if Santander met its obligations under the CRM Code further loss would 
have been prevented, meaning she wouldnt have made the international transfers. Given 
the value of the first transaction and the fact there was nothing else unusual about it I 
wouldnt have expected Santander to have spoken to Miss A about it and asked questions 
about the reason for the payment. Instead, I consider Santander ought to have provided 
Miss A with onscreen warnings based on the payment reason given. Ive seen evidence to 
confirm that Miss A chose Paying a friend as the payment reason so any warning 
Santander gave would have been geared towards scams of this nature. Given the trust that 
E had built by the time Miss A made the first payment Im not persuaded its more likely than 
not an on-screen friends and family warning would have broken the spell and made Miss A 
realise she was being manipulated by a scammer. 
Putting things right
Overall, I consider Santander should reimburse the balance of the first payment plus interest 
as set out below.
My final decision
I require Santander UK Plc to :
- Refund Miss A £1,567.50; and
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date it 
made its decision under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
If Santander UK Plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman