DRN-2788873
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about Society of Lloyds handling of a claim under his personal accident 
insurance policy.
Mr S has a representative acting on his behalf, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as 
coming from Mr S himself.
What happened
Mr S held two personal accident insurance policies with Society of Lloyds. Policy one was in 
effect from April 2017 to April 2018. And policy two, from September 2018 to September 
2019.
Both policies covered him if an accident meant he could no longer play sport professionally. 
The important difference, in the circumstances of this complaint, is that the two policies 
carried a different benefit amount for permanent total disablement.
In 2018, Mr S suffered two injuries to the same part of his body. And following the second 
incident, he had to retire. He made a claim under his policy.
Society of Lloyds accepted his claim under policy two, having decided it was the injury in 
late 2018 that meant Mr S couldnt continue his professional sports career.
Mr S believes the injury occurred during the term of the earlier policy  but then recurred 
during the term of policy two. He wants Society of Lloyds to accept his claim under policy 
one and pay the higher benefit amount.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and was satisfied Society of Lloyds had acted 
reasonably by deciding it was the second injury that resulted in his retirement. 
Mr S disagrees so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the rules laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which 
expects insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim.
Its important to say Im not a medical doctor so my role in these circumstances is not to 
reach a clinical finding on Mr Ss injury but to consider the evidence provided to me by the 
parties. And whilst I have the upmost empathy for Mr Ss situation, I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
The specific details of Mr Ss injury and claim are well known to the parties, so I dont intend 
to go into the detailed facts of the case here. I would however like to reassure the parties I 
have considered everything provided to me but intend to comment only on those matters I 
consider most pertinent to the outcome Ive reached.  
The crux of this complaint is whether the injury in late 2018 is a recurrence of the earlier 
injury  and as such led to his retirement. Based on my review, Im not satisfied that is the 
case.
For his claim for permanent total disablement to succeed, Mr S needs to show that, through 
injury or illness, he is unable to continue his occupation as a professional sportsman. The 
policy terms say:
Permanent Total Disablement
Total and absolute disablement arising from Bodily Injury or Illness which has been 
medically determined by a Health Care Practitioner to entirely prevent the Insured 
Person from engaging in their usual Occupation for the remainder of their life.
The term is the same in both policies.
Ive looked at the evidence relating to the first injury along with the details of Mr Ss 
treatment, which included a surgical repair and a rehabilitation programme. Mr S was able to 
return to practice and playing professionally for a short period, before sustaining a further 
injury later that year.  
The medical evidence Ive seen relating to the second injury shows the second incident 
caused some recurrence of the earlier injury, but also appears to have caused a new injury. 
The surgeon who treated Mr S following the second incident reports [injury]is additional 
tothat occurred previously in April 2018.  He also refers to a combination of both injuries 
along with a re-tearing of his previous surgery.
And in the opinion of the independent medical specialist who examined Mr S, its this new 
injury that ultimately meant Mr S couldnt continue playing. He also notes Mr S was able to 
return to playing after the early incident, having been assessed as match-fit by the medical 
team treating him. 
I understand Mr S is disappointed by the outcome of his claim, but I dont think Society of 
Lloyds has acted unreasonably by relying on professional medical opinions when reaching 
its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Society of Lloyds 
to do any more
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman