DRN-1552434
 
The complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms B applied for a mortgage with Halifax in 1999. Halifax sold her PPI at the same time to 
protect the monthly repayment if she couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms B disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms Bs adamant that she wasnt told the PPI was optional. She says she was led to believe 
she had to have PPI if she wanted the mortgage. I cant say with certainty what took place. 
That said, Halifax has provided a copy of Ms Bs signed PPI application form. The form 
detailed, among other things, the monthly benefit amount and the monthly premium. 
Given that Ms B was taken through a separate application process for the PPI, and 
considering the wording of the PPI application form, Im satisfied Halifax made it clear to her 
that the PPI was separate to the mortgage and was optional. I think she agreed to take it out 
knowing that was the case. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms B. So, among other things, it had to take steps 
to make sure its recommendation was right for her. I dont know if it did that, but I think it was 
right for her in any event. I say that because, for example, she was eligible for the PPI. And it 
doesnt seem shed have been affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited 
cover for.
I gather Ms B was entitled to enhanced redundancy pay from her employer for a time, 
although its not clear how much shed have got. She says shed have got statutory sick pay 
and didnt have any saving or other insurance she could have relied on to make her 
mortgage repayments if she wasnt working. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, were 
considerable in that theyd have paid out for up to 24 months per claim. So, I think Ms B still had a need for the PPI, not least because the mortgage was a long-term 
financial commitment secured against her home and the potential consequences of her not 
keeping up with the monthly repayments were significant.
Theres no indication that Ms B found the monthly premium to be unaffordable. And the PPI 
was flexible enough to allow her to cancel it at no extra cost if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
Halifax also had to give Ms B good enough information about the PPI, so she could make up 
her own mind about whether it was right for her. I dont know that it did that but, as I say, it 
appears as though she wanted to take out the cover. And I cant, for the same reasons Ive 
given above, see what other information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out.  
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that Ms Bs lost out because of how Halifax 
sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman