DRN-3818352
The complaint
X is complaining about bonds issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) and sold to him by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). He said he was told that the bonds were safe, carried low risk and paid 
good monthly interest. He was assured his bonds would be protected by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
What happened
In April 2017, X invested £15,240 and £20,000 into two three-year Fixed Monthly Income 
IFISA Bonds. Sales of these bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from 
B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investment in the bonds, 
through a website it operated. And they were responsible for advertising and marketing the 
bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd to discuss the bonds. B&G Plc and 
BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 
February 2018. 
X had previously invested in a B&G Plc bond, in 2016. But this was before B&G Plc was an 
appointed representative of Gallium  so Im not considering that investment in this decision.
Xs investment in the bonds
In 2017, X had limited experience of investing. Hed invested in the stock market for a short 
time in 2009 but decided it was too high risk. Since then, hed had his money in Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs) and savings accounts, as well as the 2016 B&G Plc bond. 
X recalls that he was told about BG Ltd by one of his friends. He looked at BG Ltds website 
and saw positive reviews of the bonds. So he filled in a contact form and was contacted by a 
representative of BG Ltd who discussed the bonds, their risk and return, and the application 
process in detail. X says he was told the bonds were safe and low risk and that theyd yield 
good monthly interest. He also understood the investment to be regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and covered by the FSCS  so assumed hed get his money back if the 
investment failed.
X recalls the application process started over the phone and he was then emailed and 
posted a copy of the application to sign. This corresponds with a discussion in a phone call 
on 3 April 2017 in which X said hed applied over the phone and was expecting to receive 
some paperwork to sign. Unfortunately we havent got a recording of the call in which the 
application was made.
Although our investigators view suggested X had applied online for these bonds, the 
evidence Ive seen leads me to conclude he actually applied over the phone. 
BG Ltds system records show that an everyday investor tag was added to Xs record on 
28 March 2017 and the ISA and B&G terms were also confirmed on this date. The bond 
certificates show application dates of 3 and 13 April 2017 respectively. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short-term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, X has 
not had his invested capital returned to him.
Galliums response to Xs complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Xs complaint. They said X had been given sufficient information and 
risk warnings about the investment. They then made further submissions, after Xs complaint 
had been referred to us. Ive considered their submissions in full. Ive also considered what 
Gallium described as their position statement, which sets out general information on the 
background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Xs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
He said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of X as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs 
rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with their regulatory 
obligations. Had they done so, X wouldnt have decided to invest - or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that they shouldnt allow X to invest. For these reasons, 
both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for 
Gallium to compensate X for the loss hes suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. They said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, X was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to X giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for them to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy themselves that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge 
and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per 
the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
X made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when he received the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf 
of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear, and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 
10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium have referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I agree with the investigator 
that this complaint should be upheld. In summary:
Because I havent heard the call recording of Xs phone application, Im not 
making an assessment as to how X came to be classed as a restricted investor. 
However I note that X did not meet the FCA definitions of a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, didnt meet 
the requirements of the rules. If it had, it would have been apparent the bonds 
werent an appropriate investment for X. In the circumstances X would either not 
have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded 
they shouldnt promote the bonds to X.
For this reason my decision is that Xs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied X 
would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to 
proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet their regulatory obligations. And 
so Im satisfied its fair to ask Gallium to compensate X for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put X as 
close to the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt invested in the bonds.
I take the view that X would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what 
he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given X's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate X fairly, Gallium must:
compare the performance of X's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. A separate calculation should be carried out for each bond. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable;
add any interest set out below to the compensation payable; andpay an additional £350 to X for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
including the disruption of his plans and not being able to support his family as hed 
hoped.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Three-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but IlliquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided X agrees to Gallium taking ownership 
of the illiquid assets, if they to. If it isnt possible for Gallium to take ownership, then they 
may request an undertaking from X that he repays to Gallium any amount he may receive 
from the bonds in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
X wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given X's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that X would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
to X the amount calculated as set out above. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
provide details of its calculation to X in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman