DRN-3068684
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr W sold the property in 
2015. He transferred the solar panels to his new property, which meant he continued to 
benefit from energy saving when using the electricity generated but lost the benefit of the FIT 
payments. 
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Hitachi disagreed, saying that 
it didnt agree that Mr G had argued that the solar panels had been misrepresented to him as 
being self-funding. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Although Mr W didnt use the phrase self-funding in his complaint, his representative 
described him being told the following before he agreed to buy the solar panels:
The total benefit which our client would receive would cover the overall costs associated 
with the system within a few years of installation as per the company's leaflet.
I think it is highly likely that Mr W was told this  given it matches what was shown in the 
sales literature he was given. And, noting that the loan was repayable over an eight-year 
term, I think that provides context for what was meant by a few years. In this context, I 
would expect a few years to be less than the eight years of the loan term. So, to pay for itself 
within the loan term, the benefits of the system (in energy savings and FIT payments) 
wouldve had to at least match the monthly loan repayments during that time. In other words, 
the system would be self-funding. But the benefits of the system did not do this (and were 
never likely to).
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Ive decided the redress should be calculated over a ten-year period, rather than the eight-
year term of Mr Ws loan. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and reasonable 
to both Mr W and Hitachi. Because Mr W can expect to benefit from the solar panels 
(through energy saving and Feed-In Tariff payments) for 20 years, I think a ten-year period is 
reasonable when calculating the redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period 
would strike the appropriate balance in terms of fairness.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Hitachi needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr W by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mr Ws loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Mr W lost this benefit when he moved house, so I dont think its fair that any 
FIT payments are included in the recalculation after that time.
I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Hitachi and Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman