DRN-3573605
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Santander UK Plc dealt unfairly with them and caused them 
stress and inconvenience when they asked them for evidence to verify their identity. Mrs P 
would like to know the reason for Santanders behaviour.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P had accounts with Santander.
They were asked to provide documents to verify their identity by Santander in 
September 2020.  Mrs P provided some documents to Santander.
Mrs P was unhappy with having been asked to do this as they had been long standing 
customers of Santander.
Mrs P has told us she provided the documents requested. Although she didnt have 
everything Santander asked for. She has said she wasnt given a reason for the request. 
She found the process of providing the documentation stressful. 
Mrs P said Santander told them they still needed more ID. 
Mrs P complained to Santander. They said the documents they requested were to verify the 
identity and source of funds. And the request was made for regulatory reasons. Santander 
acknowledged Mrs Ps stress and offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs P rejected this.
Mrs P was unhappy with their response, so she complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Santander had been 
complying with their regulatory obligations when they asked Mrs P and Mr P to provide 
documents. She didnt think they had done anything wrong but acknowledged that Mrs P 
had found the process stressful.
Mrs P was unhappy with the view. She said Santander had never told them why they 
needed to carry out these checks and why the documentation Mrs P had provided wasnt 
enough to satisfy Santander. She said it was stressful to have their ID refused and have 
Santander threaten to close the accounts.
Mrs P wanted to know why they had failed the ID checks if these were routine checks as she 
feels she provided everything she was asked to. She also was never told what the reason for 
the checks were. She has said Santander should have used a common-sense approach to 
their due diligence checks. She is unhappy Santander arent being held accountable for how 
they made honest customers feel. She has said Santander threatened to block or close the 
account on a few occasions if the checks werent completed. This made Mrs P have to 
withdraw large amounts of money as they were worried they would loose access to their 
account and they were in the process of buying a house. But they incurred charges as a 
result.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure Mrs P that I have considered all the evidence on the file and 
in particular I have paid special attention to all the comments she has made and her specific 
submissions to me.
Ive noted that Mrs P had asked to speak to me before I issue my decision. But having 
reviewed the file I find there is enough information for me to reach a decision without doing 
so. 
Due diligence checks
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs P and Mr Ps account. UK 
legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied 
Santander were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mrs P and Mr Ps 
accounts and requested documentation from them.
Mrs P has said she wanted to know the reason for the requests for ID and proof of source of 
funds. I have seen information provided by the bank suggesting they required the 
information to establish the identity and source of funds in Mrs P s account to comply with 
their regulatory obligations. Santander acknowledged Mrs P had been inconvenienced by 
this and offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs P rejected this.
I know Mrs P has said she wasnt given a reason for the review of the account, but I 
disagree. Although Santander isnt required to give a specific reason, Santander sent them a 
letter on 6 November 2020 which explained Santander were needing to verify their identity 
as the process wasnt in place when Mrs P and Mr P opened their account. 
Santanders obligations to carry out due diligence checks on their customers accounts are 
ongoing obligations and Im satisfied Santander was carrying out a legitimate exercise.
Mrs P has said Santander should have taken a common-sense approach to their checks in 
Mrs P and Mr Ps case. However, a banks obligation to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations means they cannot pre-empt the result of their checks by applying 
different standards to different customers. This could also mean Santander might open itself 
to allegations of discrimination. So, I can see why Santander chose to follow the standard 
process that was in place for this type of review even in Mrs P and Mr Ps case.
I appreciate Mrs P has found it stressful to provide numerous documents to Santander, but I 
have already explained the bank were complying with their regulatory obligations and 
following a standard process.
Mrs P has said she felt threatened by being told their account would close or be blocked if 
the checks were not completed to Santanders satisfaction and this led Mrs P to withdraw 
some large sums from their account.  I am sorry Mrs P felt this way. I can see Santander 
were following their standard process when carrying out regulatory checks of this nature and as Ive said I wouldnt expect Santander to treat Mrs P and Mr P any differently. So, I dont 
think they have done anything wrong there.
I realise Mrs P was concerned she would lose access to her account and took out some 
money as a result. This was inconvenient for Mrs P and she has told us she incurred some 
charges. But I cant say Santander can be held liable for this as they were carrying out a 
review of the account to comply with their regulatory obligations.
In summary I appreciate Mrs P has found the whole process difficult and stressful and I 
know she will be disappointed with my decision but looking at the evidence I dont think 
Santander has acted unfairly when it reviewed their accounts and requested documents to 
establish ID and source of funds. I wont be asking Santander to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman