DRN-1200356
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that he has lost out because National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
didnt give him sufficient information about the terms and conditions of his packaged bank 
account.
What happened
Mr S took out a Reward Silver account in December 2015.
One of the benefits of the account was mobile phone insurance.
Mr S says that when he tried to claim on the insurance, his claim was turned down because 
although he owned the phone that was lost, a member of his household used it rather than 
himself. Mr S says this limitation was not drawn to his attention during the sale.
Our investigator looked into this and upheld Mr Ss complaint. NatWest disagrees and so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the information that NatWest says Mr S received about the mobile 
phone insurance. Ive not seen anything on the application form or in the summary section of 
the welcome pack he wouldve received that tells him either that there is a limitation of this 
sort or what it is. The limitation is explained in what would be commonly called the small print 
of the terms and conditions.
So, I dont think I can reasonably say that the limitation was properly brought to Mr Ss 
attention. And from what Ive read in the application form and the welcome pack, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for him to believe in his circumstances that a mobile phone that he 
owned and paid for, and was used by a member of his household, would be covered by the 
policy.
So, I think that Mr S has lost out due to a lack of clear information form NatWest about the 
product he was buying.
Putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay compensation equivalent to the amount of Mr 
Ss claim (£440) plus interest at 8% simple from the date of loss to the date of payment.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman