DRN-2951803
The complaint
Mrs G complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) failed to collect a direct 
debit, then marked her credit file to show this as unpaid. She said that meant she couldnt 
get the best deal on a mortgage, and had to pay more interest and higher fees.  
What happened
Mrs G told us that her JLFS credit card was paid by direct debit each month. In June 2020, it 
didnt collect. Mrs G noticed this very quickly, and got in touch with JLFS. She was told it 
hadnt been collected because of other credits applied to her account. Mrs G asked if she 
was going to be charged for a late payment, and JLFS said no. 
At the end of June, JLFS wrote to Mrs G to say shed missed her payment for that month. 
Mrs G asked JLFS to explain what was going on, and she cancelled the direct debit so she 
could pay manually for July, in case the same thing happened again. 
On 2 July, JLFS wrote to Mrs G to say that it was investigating. It was sorry for the delay so 
far, and it wanted to know if Mrs Gs direct debit was still active at her bank. Mrs G replied to 
say she had already cancelled the direct debit, and she asked JLFS to confirm what it had 
said earlier, that this wouldnt affect her credit file. 
Mrs G then applied for a mortgage in mid-September. She was turned during for the product 
she wanted, because of a late payment marker from JLFS on her credit file, for June. Mrs G 
raised this with JLFS, and when it didnt respond promptly, she brought her complaint to our 
service.
JLFS has now investigated, and it acknowledged there was an error with the direct debit, 
although it cant say why this happened. It has now arranged for the negative marker to be 
removed from Mrs Gs credit file. It also offered Mrs G £250 in compensation.
But JLFS didnt appear to have asked credit reference agencies to remove this negative 
marker, or write to Mrs G to confirm this wasnt her fault, until quite some time later, in early 
November. By the time all of this was achieved, Mrs G had mortgaged elsewhere, as the 
mortgage she had wanted was no longer available to her. 
Mrs G told us she couldnt get as good a deal, so ended up paying more in fees and interest. 
She said that JLFSs mistake was the only reason why she missed out on a better deal, and 
she wanted JLFS to cover the difference, which added up to a very considerable amount 
over the full term of the mortgage.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs G applied for a 
lower cost mortgage, but was turned down. If Mrs G had chased this with JLFS in July, then 
the problem may have been resolved by the time she applied for a new mortgage, but 
equally, if JLFS had simply done what it said it was going to do then, the problem would also 
have been resolved by the time Mrs G came to apply for this mortgage. Our investigator said 
that it didnt look as if JLFS had actually acted on Mrs Gs complaint until she contacted it 
again after her mortgage was refused, in mid-September.
Our investigator said she couldnt be sure that Mrs Gs application for the lower cost 
mortgage that she wanted wouldve been successful, because it failed at a fairly early stage, 
when there were still other hurdles to get over. But she thought it had failed at this early 
stage, because of the negative information that JLFS had put on Mrs Gs credit file. And by 
the time that was removed, the bank Mrs G was applying to for her mortgage had changed 
its assessment criteria. Mrs G could no longer apply. 
So, in short, Mrs G had not lost a mortgage deal which she would definitely otherwise have 
got. And thats why our investigator didnt think it would be fair to just ask JLFS to pay the 
difference between the mortgage Mrs G wanted, and the one she eventually got.
But what Mrs G had lost was a chance at that mortgage, the chance to make a full 
application, and get a better deal. For that, our investigator said that JLFS should pay Mrs G 
£250 more, on top of the £250 it had already offered.
JLFS said that it felt this was a considerable amount, given that the mortgage issues couldnt 
solely be attributed to its mistake. But it said it would accept this, because it had made the 
original mistake.
Mrs G said that shed provided plenty of evidence to prove that the incorrect credit file entry 
was the sole reason her preferred mortgage application could not be pursued further. She 
said JLFS couldnt prove it would have been declined further down the line. And she felt that 
the fact she had completed on another mortgage product, proves this wouldnt have been 
the case.
Mrs G wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case came to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
JLFS has accepted that it made a mistake in not collecting Mrs Gs direct debit payment in 
June. And its complaint response letter does make clear that it didnt resolve this mistake for 
Mrs G until November.
So theres no dispute about the mistake JLFS made, or how long it took to put things right. 
And that means what I have to decide, is what does JLFS have to do to make up for this?
While this negative mark was on Mrs Gs credit file, Mrs G was turned down for her preferred 
mortgage. She has now mortgaged elsewhere. She wants JLFS to pay the difference 
between the two, which shes worked out over the full 25-year term of the mortgage. This 
adds up to many tens of thousands of pounds.
I dont think its likely that the difference in position will be quite as stark as Mrs G fears. 
Thats because Mrs G was seeking a five-year fixed term mortgage, and I think its likely that 
once her current fixed term is over, shell once again seek to remortgage elsewhere, and get a better deal. So I dont think its likely that the full term of Mrs Gs mortgage will be affected 
by JLFSs mistake.
And unfortunately I also dont think I can accept Mrs Gs assertion that, because she has 
successfully completed a mortgage with another lender, her preferred lender wouldve 
accepted her application. I do accept that she lost the chance of going through this process 
because of the negative entry on her credit file. But each lender takes its own decision on 
whether to grant a mortgage, and Mrs Gs preferred application failed at a very early stage. 
The banks underwriters hadnt considered it yet. We simply cannot be sure that Mrs Gs 
application with her preferred lender would ultimately have been successful. 
For that reason, I also dont think JLFS has to pay the difference between what Mrs G would 
have paid over the next five years, with her preferred lender, and what shes paying now. 
But I do think that there was a more than negligible chance that Mrs G wouldve had her 
mortgage approved with her preferred lender, if that application hadnt been rejected 
because of the negative information on her credit file. Shes lost that chance, because of 
what JLFS did. So I also agree with our investigator that compensation our service considers 
to be substantial is warranted in this case. And I think a total payment of £500 would provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what Ill award.
JLFS has already offered Mrs G £250. Ill provide that it can count that money towards this 
total award, if it has been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited must pay Mrs G £500 in 
compensation. John Lewis Financial Services Limited can count towards that any payment it 
has already made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman