DRN-2162756
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont help him to prove he made a large payment
by cheque from his HSBC account, some years ago.
What happened
Mr T said he sent a cheque drawn on his account with HSBC for £11,000 to pay off his
mortgage in 2006. But he now knows the mortgage was already paid off in 2004. He
believes an endowment policy matured and cleared his debt. He said that the bank that held
his mortgage told him it had paid the money into an account for him, but then this account
disappeared. So he wanted to get back the £11,000, and as part of this, he wanted HSBC to
help him show the money had been paid to the other bank.
HSBC said it no longer had the information Mr T wanted. It was sorry it couldnt supply this
now, and also that Mr T had a wasted trip to the branch. It simply no longer had the cheque 
or statements. But it said it wanted to make an offer of £50 now. Mr T didnt want
to accept that, and said we should keep investigating.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen that the data
in the statements sent to Mr T in 2006 could no longer be viewed by HSBC. It had been
deleted. Our investigator said that HSBC had sent us records showing it has tried repeatedly
to access this information, and it cant. HSBC hadnt sent its data retention policy but our
investigator said hed discussed this issue with the FCA and the ICO, and banks are only
required to keep information for six years. Our investigator thought that the information was
removed from HSBCs records in 2012.
Our investigator said that he hoped Mr T was feeling better, after the health issues hed
experienced in the last few years. But he said that these didnt change the outcome in this
case. HSBC isnt supplying this information now, because it hasnt got it.
Our investigator thought that HSBC couldve responded to Mr Ts request quicker and more
efficiently. But he thought £50 was suitable redress for this inconvenience.
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed been told on multiple occasions that the cheque was
available. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then
Id like to start by setting out clearly for Mr T that Im not going to be able to get 
HSBC to send him detailed information about his current account between 2004 and 
2006, or a copy of the cheque he says he wrote for £11,000. I understand how 
important this is to Mr T. But Im satisfied that HSBC no longer has this information.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to have Mr Ts statements, after this time. Banks arent 
supposed to keep hold of information forever. They dont usually keep information for 
more than six or seven years, and they arent supposed to just hang on to 
information that they dont have a business need for. I think its reasonable for HSBC 
to say that it doesnt have the bank statements for this account any more. And its 
shown us its internal screens, which show these statements cant be generated now.
HSBC also says it doesnt have a copy of Mr Ts cheque any more. Again, thats 
what Id expect. What HSBC says now is in line with HSBCs retention policy for 
cheques, which Im familiar with from other cases. Original cheques are destroyed 
after a year, copies after seven years. So I wouldnt expect HSBC to still have Mr Ts 
cheque, after about 16 years.
For those reasons, Im satisfied HSBC cant give this information to Mr T. It doesnt 
have it.
But Mr T was repeatedly told that HSBC did have this information, and it could be 
sent to him. I think thats because HSBC saw that its system would allow it to order 
statements for Mr T. But when it tried to actually do this, the statements werent 
there. A bit like a business offering to sell something, then saying sorry, its actually 
out of stock.
So I think that when HSBC told Mr T he could have the statements, it made a 
mistake. I note that it made this mistake repeatedly. I think thats part of the reason 
why Mr T didnt believe HSBC when it later said he couldnt have the statements, and 
why he went to the trouble and expense of hiring a solicitor to try to help him. Ill bear 
this in mind when I think about appropriate compensation in this case.
I also note that Mr T first started to ask for evidence of this payment in March 2019. 
That request doesnt seem to have received any response. When Mr T asked again 
later in the year, he was told to go into a branch. Mr T said this was a totally wasted 
trip, and HSBC seems to agree, because it has apologised for that. Ill also bear 
these points in mind when I think about appropriate compensation in this case.
Its clear HSBC has made some mistakes in this case. Its now offered £50 for that. 
But I dont think thats enough to make up for whats gone wrong here. I think HSBC 
should pay Mr T £150 now. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it was happy to pay the amount Id suggested. Mr T replied to disagree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T wanted to remind us that HSBC had told him that not only did it have copy statements, 
they had been sent to him. He said HSBC had confirmed this in writing and on the phone. 
Hed previously been told repeatedly that the statement and cheque were on screen. It was 
only later that HSBC started to say the items were on screen, but not available. He said that 
he believed the call centre staff who were reading from a screen in front of them.
Mr T said he thought that cheques and statements were held on microfilm. And a different 
financial business had been able to retrieve information he wanted from 15 years ago.I understand that Mr T was led to believe initially that he could have the statements and 
cheque he wanted. But HSBC has shown us its internal screens, which say that these items 
can be ordered. It has also shown us that when it tries to order these items, they arent 
there. So I still dont think that HSBC has the items Mr T wanted. And I dont think that is 
affected by the fact that a different financial business apparently keeps correspondence for 
much longer. 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr T £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman