DRN-3845560
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) recorded a default on his credit file. He 
thinks this is unfair as he had an arrangement with Lloyds and would like the default 
removed as the balance has been paid.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr M had an arrangement with Lloyds to pay back his overdraft. This 
arrangement was broken and Lloyds sent a letter of arrears in December 2020 and applied a 
35 day fee suppression to assist.
On 11 January 2021 Lloyds sent a formal demand letter for the outstanding balance and 
advised that Mr Ms account would close unless the balance was paid in 60 days. Following 
receipt of this letter Mr M got in touch with Lloyds by phone on 19 January 2021 and said he 
would clear the excess balance but needed time to pay it. Lloyds offered Mr M a repayment 
plan but Mr M declined this so Lloyds put a 30 day hold on closing the account and advised 
to call back within 30 days otherwise the account would close and a default would be applied 
to his credit file. Lloyds confirmed this in writing in its letter dated 20 January 2021.
Mr M didnt get in touch with Lloyds before the hold expired on his account on 19 February 
2021 so Lloyds sent a pre closure letter explaining if it didnt hear from Mr M in 30 days the 
account will close and his credit score may be affected.
On 25 March Mr M called to pay the outstanding balance on the account but by this time his 
account had already closed and a default registered.  
Mr M complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds said it followed the correct procedures and 
gave notice about what was to happen to his account if he didnt pay the outstanding 
balance including applying a default to his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that Lloyds 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr M fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed he says he didnt receive the letters and had paid the balance in full and 
would like the default removed from his credit file. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr M has experienced and see if Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr M back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ms main complaint point is that it was unfair Lloyds registered a default on his credit file. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Lloyds did anything wrong in closing Mr Ms
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Ms account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that Lloyds sent three letters to the address it had registered for Mr M notifying him that his 
account was in arrears and what was to happen to his account if no action was taken. This 
was also explained to him in his phone call with Lloyds on 19 January 2021.
Mr M says that he never received the letters from Lloyds. But Ive seen a copy of all the 
letters and can see that they are correctly addressed and it is the same address Mr M has 
listed with us. I havent been given any reason why Mr M might not have received these 
letters, indeed most post is delivered correctly, so I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong here 
or made a mistake. 
And even if Mr M didnt receive the later letters he did receive the formal demand letter on 
11 January 2021 and understood his account was in arrears. I say this as following this letter 
Lloyds records show Mr M got in contact and Lloyds placed a 30 day hold on Mr Ms account 
to allow him time to clear the outstanding balance or get in contact before the 30 day hold 
expired. During the call Mr M was told how important it was to get in touch before the hold 
expired but as Mr M failed to get in touch or repay the balance Lloyds sent a pre closure 
letter on 19 February giving Mr M another 30 days to pay the balance or get in touch.
As neither of these things happened Lloyds closed Mr Ms account and registered a default.
So Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to make the decision to close Mr Ms account and 
register a default as it gave Mr M plenty notice of what was to happen if he didnt take 
appropriate action. 
I understand that Mr M is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report 
especially considering he has now paid the outstanding amount. But Lloyds has a duty to 
make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies 
it subscribes to is factually accurate. And in Mr Ms case he might well have settled his debt 
with Lloyds but it wasnt done in the required time so what Lloyds reported is a true account 
of what happened.
Ive noted Mr Ms concerns that this is affecting his ability to borrow money. He might be 
interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit records. The 
purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly.So overall and having considered everything I dont think Lloyds treated Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman