DRN-3620931
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt extended his interest only mortgage.
He is represented by Ms E.
What happened
In April 2007, Mr S took out a mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester. That mortgage is 
now owned by Lloyds. The mortgage was for £783,000 plus fees of £829. It was taken for a 
12-years term on an interest only basis.
In June 2018 Mr S told Lloyds he wanted a four-year mortgage extension on an interest only 
basis. Lloyds assessed whether Mr S could afford the mortgage extension. It says it made 
him an informal offer on 15 January 2019. That offer referred to Mr S taking out a full 
repayment mortgage over 16-year term. Lloyds said the offer was an informal one only as it 
told Mr S that it needed more information from him before it could proceed with the offer. It 
had asked him to sign a declaration and for his 2017/2018 tax calculations. Lloyds asked for 
the information by 1 February 2019.
In mid-February 2019 Mr S asked Lloyds for more time to consider its offer. He also said he 
was seeking advice from an independent financial advisor.
In May 2019, Mr S said he wanted to accept the January 2019 offer. Lloyds said that offer 
had expired so it needed to complete a new affordability assessment. Mr S thought Lloyds 
should honour the January 2019 offer so he complained.
Mr S mortgage term expired in June 2019.
In June 2019 Lloyds responded to Mr S complaint. It said its policy on lending into 
retirement had changed between January and May 2020. However it had reviewed Mr S 
circumstances again and could offer him full repayment mortgage over 14-year term subject 
to a further review of Mr S income and expenditure. 
When Lloyds carried out that review it said it wasnt able to offer Mr S the mortgage he 
wanted. It said Mr S monthly expenditure had increased by £450 as hed taken out a new 
insurance policy since January 2019. Lloyds also asked Mr S for more information about his 
earnings. 
On 8 June 2020, Lloyds reviewed Mr S circumstances again. Lloyds and Mr S talked about  
Lloyds offering Mr S £625,000 on repayment terms and £159,290 on interest only terms for 
five years. Mr S said hed be able to afford that as he was due to receive a large lump sum 
payment from his business. Lloyds asked Mr S to prove he would receive the lump sum 
payment.
Mr S sent Lloyds information about the lump sum payments in November 2020.
In March 2021, Lloyds mistakenly sent Mr S a letter saying that a field agent would visit his 
property. Mr S complained about that and the fact that Lloyds hadnt responded to him about 
the lump sum payment information. In April 2021 Lloyds apologised and accepted that there 
had been a delay in it reviewing the information. In its final response on these issues it paid 
Mr S £150 for those mistakes but it declined his application to extend the term of his 
mortgage on the grounds discussed in June 2020. It said the lump sum payment (which 
wasnt guaranteed) wasnt an acceptable repayment vehicle for the interest only element of 
the proposed mortgage. 
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint. She said she was only able to look into what 
happened since the final response letter issued in June 2019 because Mr S was out of time 
to complain to us about the issues considered in the final responses before that. Ms E and 
Lloyds agreed with that. So Mr S complaints before that (about Lloyds not honouring its 
January 2019 offer and about it saying around that time that it couldnt lend to Mr S after he 
reached 70 years of age) cant be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Lloyds actions after it issued its June 2019 final response. As 
the lump sum payment wasnt guaranteed she didnt think Lloyds acted unreasonably when 
it said it didnt consider the payment to be a viable repayment vehicle to repay the proposed 
interest only part of the mortgage. So she didnt recommend that Mr S complaint was 
upheld.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. Ms E said Mr S felt that Lloyds had treated him unfairly 
throughout the process. Mr S felt hed been penalised because he was self-employed. Whilst 
he acknowledged that it can be considered a risk to rely on future earnings, he felt he had a 
demonstrable, consistent record of earnings. So bearing in mind his previous overall earning 
history he thought Lloyds should extend his mortgage on the terms discussed in June 2020. 
After our investigator sent Mr S her view on the complaint Mr S suggested that he should be 
given time to prepare to sell the mortgage property on 1 March 2023  shortly after his 65th 
birthday. He said that would give him time to sell the property at a time when hed be likely to 
get the best price for it.
Lloyds didnt agree to that. In July 2022 it said that it had already given Mr S three years to 
resolve the matter, and given the economic environment, there was no guarantee that Mr S 
would be able to sell the property for the price he wanted in March 2023. It wanted Mr S to 
market the property for sale now.
For completeness I will also say here that Mr S made another complaint to Lloyds in October 
2020 about the fact that Lloyds had recorded adverse information on his credit file about 
arrears on his mortgage account. Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake about this. It 
apologised, compensated Mr S, and amended Mr S credit file. Mr S accepted this resolution 
so there is no longer any dispute about this issue. So I havent covered that complaint in this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
End of term discussions since June 2019Ill begin by saying that when Mr S took out the mortgage in 2007 he agreed to repay the 
balance at the end of the term in June 2019. So its reasonable that Lloyds expected him to 
do that. Lloyds wasnt required to extend the mortgage. However, it needed to consider any 
applications Mr S made to extend their mortgage fairly and reasonably.
The crux of Mr S complaint now is that it wont give him the mortgage that was discussed in 
June 2020 (a five-year mortgage for £625,000 on repayment terms and £159,290 on interest 
only terms). Lloyds has said that its against its lending policy to accept the lump sum 
payment Mr S says he is likely to get from his business in 2022 as a repayment vehicle to 
repay the interest only part of the mortgage. 
I think its helpful to say here that me to say here that its up to Lloyds to set its own lending 
policy. Its allowed to use its commercial judgement to put in place a policy in relation to 
mortgages which reflects its regulatory obligations, as well as its attitude to risk. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Lloyds. In other words, I have to decide if 
Lloyds took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before 
reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the 
decisions Lloyds made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for Lloyds.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Lloyds considered the 
proposed 2020 mortgage fairly and reasonably. Ive considered Lloyds lending policy, and 
the information Mr S gave it about the lump sum payment. I can see that the lump sum 
wasnt guaranteed. Mr S has said that Lloyds should take his track record of earnings into 
account and the impact of this matter on his family. He has also told us he feels that he has 
been penalised because he is self-employed and that he has provided all the information 
Lloyds asked him for. I understand Mr S disappointment, and his frustration about amount of 
time he has been trying to extend his mortgage. However, the lump sum payment isnt 
guaranteed. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Lloyds to go 
against its policy and lend to Mr S in line with what was discussed in 2020. As a responsible 
lender Lloyds is required to ensure that Mr S can afford any mortgage it gives him. Although 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that he has been penalised because he was self-employed Im 
not persuaded thats the case here.
Conclusion and Mr S current proposal
I recognise that this decision is likely be very disappointing for Mr S. But based on what Ive 
seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
Recently Ms E has said that if I were to reach the same conclusion as our investigator Mr S 
would like the Financial Ombudsman Service to assist Mr S enter into supervised 
negotiations with Lloyds to settle this matter in full. I understand why Mr S has asked for this 
and I appreciate the importance of this matter for Mr S. However, the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is an informal dispute resolution service so it wouldnt be appropriate for us to assist 
in supervised negotiations with Lloyds. 
Lloyds has told us that it doesnt agree to Mr S proposal to market his property for sale in 
March 2023. Although Ms E has told us that Mr S thinks hed get the best price for the 
property then, Lloyds wants Mr S to market the property for sale now. It has told us this 
matter has been outstanding for three years already, and that theres no guarantee that Mr S 
will get the price he wants for the property in March 2023 given rising interest rates.I can understand why Lloyds has come to this view given current economic conditions and 
expectations about the housing market in 2023. I appreciate how frustrated Mr S is that 
Lloyds hasnt offered him a solution that hes happy with and I appreciate the impact of this 
matter on him and his family. However, I can see that Lloyds has had numerous discussions 
with Mr S about his circumstances and possible options. Ultimately Lloyds isnt required to 
agree to come up with a solution that enables Mr S to live in the mortgaged property for as 
long as he wants to. 
I can also see that Lloyds has shown forbearance towards to Mr S since his mortgage term 
expired in June 2019  more than three years ago. It has effectively extended his mortgage 
on a temporary basis and hasnt taken legal action to try to recover the outstanding debt. Im 
conscious that Lloyds has said it will continue to work with Mr S to ensure that the mortgage 
can be repaid in a way thats affordable to Mr S. 
Taking this issue as a whole. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require 
Lloyds to accept Mr S proposal to market his property for sale in March 2023. Mr S will need 
to speak to Lloyds to agree a way forward.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman