DRN-2619500
The complaint
Ms B complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down 
her landlord property insurance claim.
What happened
Ms B made a claim for water damage at her rental property. Lloyds turned down the claim 
by relying on an exclusion for gradual damage. Unhappy with this, Ms B brought a 
complaint to this service. She paid to have the damage put right herself.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He noted that Ms B became 
aware of the damage when she carried out a six-monthly check of the property, and took 
immediate action to stop the leak. He therefore thought Lloyds should accept Ms Bs claim 
for damage to the property on a fair reasonable basis. However, as Ms B didnt have 
contents insurance cover, he thought it was appropriate for Lloyds to turn down Ms Bs 
claim for damage to her belongings.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy covers damage caused by an escape of water. It doesnt cover damage 
caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/or grout.
The policy excludes any damage caused by a gradually operating clause. It says This 
is something that happens gradually over a period of time, for example corrosion, 
damp, condensation, decay or decomposition.
The policy also excludes wear and tear.
When Ms B carried out an inspection at the property, she noticed water damage to 
the bathroom and hallway walls. Unfortunately, her tenants hadnt told her about 
this. She contacted a plumber, who found a leak from a pipe behind the bath. This 
was fixed, and Ms B notified Lloyds and made a claim for the damage.
When Lloyds agent inspected the property, it noticed that some of the grout around the 
bath had deteriorated. It thought this had allowed water to go down behind the bath and 
had caused the damage.
In turning down the claim, Lloyds accepted there had also been a leak, which it thought 
had contributed to the damage. But it said the damage wasnt from a one-off insurance 
incident, as Ms Bs tenants were aware of the water damage but didnt take any action.
Ive looked at the photos of the grout, and I agree this does appear to have 
deteriorated. I therefore I accept that there was wear and tear to the grout. However, to 
rely on the exclusion for failure of the grout, Lloyds must show that this caused the 
damage.
We dont know how much of the damage (if any) was caused by the failure of the grout. I 
say that because, based on the condition of the grout, it appears to have been that way for 
some time. Despite this, Ms B hadnt previously noticed any water damage, even though 
she apparently inspected the property every six months.
I havent seen evidence from Ms Bs plumber who fixed the leak, but Lloyds accepts that 
there was a water leak. Given the level of saturation to the surrounding areas, it seems 
unlikely this would have been caused by the failure of the grout. Consequently, it seems 
reasonable to attribute the majority, if not all, the damage to the leak rather than the failure 
of the grout.
The next point for me to consider, is whether the damage caused by the water leak would 
be covered.
Lloyds quite rightly says that the policy excludes damage that happens gradually over time.
As the leak was behind the bath, it may well have been happening for some time 
before there were any visual signs of it. However, there were then visual signs of the 
ongoing damage, but Ms B doesnt know how long this had been present, as her 
tenants didnt tell her about it.
On balance, it seems likely the damage did happen gradually. In such cases, we also look 
at when a policyholder became aware of the damage, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware of the damage.
Ms Bs tenants were aware thered been a leak, but didnt take any steps to stop it or tell 
Ms B about the damage. I think its reasonable to expect tenants to tell their landlord 
about damage as soon as they become aware of it. I would assume theres something 
in the rental agreement that required the tenants to look after the property, and notify Ms 
B if there were any issues. And so I think Ms B ought reasonably to have become aware 
of the damage once the tenants knew about it.
Whilst I appreciate that Ms B took appropriate action as soon as she became aware of 
the leak, the tenants were aware of the damage happening and failed to bring this to her 
attention as they should have done. That being the case, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
rely on the exclusion for gradual damage.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Ms B responded to say she paid to have the grouting around the bath done in May 2019, 
and there was no water damage at that time. It was only when she carried out her six-
monthly inspection in September/October 2019 that she noticed the water damage 
caused by the leak.
Lloyds responded to say it didnt have any further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B says she paid a contractor to re-do the grouting around the bath a few months before 
the leak was discovered. However, the invoice shes provided only refers to work carried out 
to a sink. And the photos Ive seen do appear to support Lloyds view that there was wear 
and tear to the grout around the bath. Though in any case, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think the wear and tear to 
the grout was what caused the damage  I think that was likely caused by the water leak. 
Ms B has provided us with an invoice from her plumber which confirms that a leak was 
repaired. Though it wasnt in dispute that there was a water leak. 
But I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the exclusion for gradual 
damage, as the water leak was evident to Ms Bs tenants, but they didnt tell Ms B about the 
damage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman