DRN-3447705
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained about HDI Global SEs refusal of a claim for 
business interruption cover under its Small Commercial/SME Package Cover insurance 
policy. 
Mr C and Ms P, directors of H, have brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
H made a claim under its policy with HDI after it after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic.  
HDI refused the claim, as it said the claim was not covered. HDI said cover can only be 
provided where a business has had to close following an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises and there was no evidence that was the case. 
H is very unhappy about this. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied HDI was entitled to refuse the claim. 
H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. H 
says there was no accurate tracking system in place in March 2020 to know how or where 
someone might have been infected by Covid-19. There were Covid-19 cases and at least 
one death recorded in the area in which H is located, so Covid-19 was around it. Its 
impossible to expect a policyholder to be able to prove if any of the cases evident in the 
locality were contracted at the premises and it is unreasonable to ask it to do so. 
H also refers to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Business Interruption Insurance test case and says the findings in that case supports its 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things 
which might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover. 
Hs policy provides cover for various events. I have considered the entire policy carefully. 
The section relevant to Hs claim is an extension to the section of the policy covering 
Business interruption.
The relevant extension says:
The liability of the insurer includes loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption 
or interference with the Business in consequence of...
1) Premises Closure or Restrictions
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval of
the Medical Officer of Healthy for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human
Disease occurring at the Premises.
The policy defines notifiable human disease as being:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) Food or drink poisoning
b) Any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated should be notified 
to them.
And premises is defined as being the buildings and the land inside the boundaries at the 
risk address stated in the Schedule. 
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for 
Cs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises  would need to be as a result of 
Covid-19 occurring at the premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. I therefore agree with H that to require a positive test to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would be unfair.
Its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other evidence 
can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the 
insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially 
rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
The evidence provided to me is that H closed as a result of the Government restrictions. I do 
not therefore think it was unreasonable for HDI to refuse the claim under this section of 
cover, as there is no evidence of an occurrence of Covid-19 at Hs premises.
H has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs test case in support of this 
complaint and I have noted its comments. The High Court and Supreme Court considered 
various policies which covered businesses which were forced to close as a result of 
notifiable diseases but didnt consider policies that required a notifiable disease at the 
premises as in this policy. As, H hasnt demonstrated that Covid-19 occurred at its premises 
I am not persuaded that the judgment impacts the outcome of Hs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman