DRN-4168579
The complaint
Mr P complained about unsatisfactory delays caused by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) in fixing water leaks under his home emergency policy. The delays caused 
greater damage than would otherwise have been the case. He was unhappy with the 
settlement paid.
What happened
Mr P made separate claims to British Gas for two unrelated leaks in his property. British Gas 
were delayed in fixing both leaks for different reasons and multiple home visits were required 
to resolve the issues. British Gas had difficulty sourcing parts needed and delayed things 
further by ordering the wrong part. British Gas also misdiagnosed one of the causes of the 
leak, which meant Mr P had to get his own contractor to influence the right outcome and get 
his claim covered.
The delays meant the damage to Mr Ps property was greater, so British Gas agreed to pay 
Mr P a cash settlement of nearly £4,000. Mr P accepted the settlement but later said it didnt 
cover the cost of getting the work completed.
Mr P said the delays caused him and his family a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience. His family had to live in the difficult conditions for longer than necessary. Mr 
P said he continuously emptied a bucket which captured the leaking water under the sink 
every two to three hours, including during the night-time.
British Gas initially offered £100 in compensation but later increased it and paid Mr P £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr P doesnt think this is enough. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint in part. He thought the delays caused a 
higher level of inconvenience for Mr P, so awarded an additional £150 in compensation. 
However, he thought the settlement offered by British Gas for the repairs was fair for the 
scope of works. Mr P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed whether I think British Gas provided a reasonable settlement in respect to 
repairing the damage from the leak. British Gas has explained the reason for Mr Ps quotes 
been higher for the works. It said it was because Mr Ps quotes included a greater scope 
than it had allowed in its settlement. It said the difference between our contractors quote 
and the customers own was that his contractor was quoting to remove and replace the 
whole ceiling. Our contractor advised this was not necessary and the damage could be stain 
blocked and painted.
Whilst, I can see Mr Ps contractor did quote for new ceilings, I havent seen any justification 
for this. And I havent seen any evidence that shows the repairs suggested by British Gas 
contractor wouldnt have been adequate to return the ceiling to its pre-loss condition.
Therefore, with the difference in expected settlement value been relatively small, I think its 
fair to assume this was down to the different scope for the repair to the ceiling. As I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest British Gas proposed repair wouldnt be reasonable, I think 
the settlement is fair. So, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then considered whether the £250 offered by British Gas was fair for the distress and 
inconvenience the delays caused. The repairs for the first leak (under the sink) were delayed 
 it took around two months from when it was reported to finally been fixed. The other leak 
was fixed more quickly. There was a short initial delay due to British Gas misdiagnosing the 
problem and this caused some inconvenience to Mr P, but this was soon resolved.
Its important to state with any claim there will be a considerable amount of inconvenience 
anyway, as no one wants problems in their home and the resultant mess in fixing them and 
repairing any damage. However, its sometimes useful to remember the initial cause of the 
problem isnt normally that of the insurer, so it would be unfair of me to hold British Gas 
accountable for all the problems.
In paying £250 compensation, British Gas accepted in some way its part in not fixing the 
issues quick enough. I dont think this fully compensates Mr P. The leak under the sink took 
two months to repair  some basic errors from British Gas created avoidable delays. The 
impact of the delays meant Mr P had to deal with the ongoing leak by collecting the water 
and emptying buckets. I think if it was as bad as Mr P suggests and he was emptying the 
bucket three times every night and all through the day he wouldve paid himself to get the 
leak fixed. However, Im persuaded there was some inconvenience, and it wouldve caused 
distress.
I think there was inconvenience when British Gas misdiagnosed the cause of the other leak 
and Mr P had to get his own contractor out to identify the cause. Therefore, I uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. However, I think £400 is about the right level of compensation  so I 
award an additional £150 to make up this amount (i.e., the same as the investigators view). I 
appreciate Mr P feels it should be a higher amount. However, I feel this is consistent with our 
Services award framework and considers both the level of inconvenience and any costs that 
Mr P may have been incurred in sourcing his own contractor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr P:
£150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (if the £250 award has not yet 
been paid, British Gas are required to pay this as well).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman