DRN-2814968
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Oodle
Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car Finance) (OCF) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr B got this car in April 2019. He says engine lights appeared and the car was consuming a
lot of fuel and kept going into limp mode soon after collection. He found the supplying dealer 
was unhelpful so he had the car checked by a local third party garage (the TPG).
The TPG ran diagnostic checks and found fault codes relating to cylinder misfires. The TPG 
replaced coil packs and spark plugs and fitted two new injectors but this didnt resolve
matters. The TPG sought assistance from a specialist sub-contractor who ran more checks
and said the electronic control unit (ECU) was the problem. The TPG replaced that as well
but the issues persisted. The TPG concluded that the car had a serious electrical problem 
since Mr B got it. They thought it might have been modified in some way and this would 
need input from a main dealer to diagnose and resolve.
After Mr B complained to OCF, the supplying dealer checked the car - in August 2019. The 
dealer agreed there was a problem with the electrical system but considered codes had not 
been put in properly, the car had been tampered and/or the problem was faulty workmanship 
by the TPG, which invalidated the warranty. 
An independent expert inspected the car a month later. He found faults present  there was 
an immediate misfire of a very heavy nature, an engine management light (EML) was 
illuminated and the car cut out but re-started and then misfired again. He noted diagnostic 
tests had revealed fault codes for misfires in cylinders two and three and historic issues with 
mixture control and a camshaft sensor exhaust signal and the supplying dealer told him 
injector seals were missing and the ECU was the wrong one for the vehicle. 
The expert saw no evidence of operation in a failed state and couldnt say if the car had 
been tampered with. He was unable to pinpoint a cause of the faults, without further 
investigation. He considered engine misfires are sudden in development and can develop at 
any time and concluded it was unlikely these faults were present when the car was supplied.
OCF rejected Mr Bs complaint. It considers the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply and the issues Mr B had were probably caused by the TPGs repair efforts. Mr B lost 
his job and struggled to keep up with the finance payments and the car stayed at the 
supplying dealership until it was repossessed in December 2019. Mr B feels he was treated 
unfairly and referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She recommends the complaint should be
upheld. She says its not in dispute theres something wrong with the car, so its a question
of when fault(s) occurred and whether the actions of the TPG made things worse. Shes
satisfied that Mr B noticed something was wrong fairly soon after he got the car and took it to
the TPG within weeks of collection. Shes not persuaded its likely that the TPGs repairs
were the cause of the faults the expert found. She thinks it is more likely than not the car
was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr B got it. To put things right, she recommends that 
OCF should end the HPA with nothing further to pay, refund £449 repair costs, £100 cost of 
recovery and any charges associated with the repossession (plus interest). 
Shes satisfied Mr B had some use of the car (for the first month) and found it fair he should 
pay 75% of the first finance payment but OCF should refund any payments made from May 
onwards - when the car was off the road. She acknowledged Mr B had problems at work 
during this time but she didnt think there were sufficient grounds to hold OCF responsible 
and require it to reimburse earnings or other losses. Shes satisfied that Mr B experienced 
distress and considerable inconvenience. She found it fair he should be paid £350 
compensation to reflect that and any adverse information should also be removed from his 
credit file.
OCF didnt agree. It says (in summary)
Mr B first raised this complaint in July 2019 when he supplied a report from the 
TPG that shows the car was taken there near the end of June 2019 because it 
was misfiring but the TPGs repair efforts were unsuccessful;
the supplying dealer checked the car in August 2019 and found it had probably 
been tampered with and the TPGs repairs were substandard causing the 
problems Mr B experienced; and
the independent expert found faults when he inspected but concluded there was 
no evidence to show these were present when the car was supplied. 
OCF doesnt think it should be held responsible for whats gone wrong with the car in these 
circumstances, so the matter was referred to an ombudsman for review.
My provisional decision
I considered the relevant information about this complaint. Whilst I was minded to uphold it, 
my reasons werent the same as the investigators and Id also seen some new information. I 
issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2021 to let the parties see my provisional findings 
and make further submissions before I made my final decision. Ive set out my provisional 
findings below (in italics) and these form part of my final decision.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I make my decision
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable but I must have regard to relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time. Im satisfied the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here.
OCF supplied this car under a HPA and (under the CRA) theres an implied term that it
would be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Quality of goods includes their general
state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from
minor defects, safety, and durability. And Im satisfied that this car needed to meet the
standard a reasonable person would expect  taking into account the age, price and mileage
at the point of supply.
The car was over nine years old and cost about £6,000 when Mr B got it in early April 2019.
An MOT on 9 April 2019 recorded the mileage was just a little over 68,000. I think a
reasonable person would accept that a car like this wouldnt meet the same standards as a
brand new vehicle  in that some parts were likely to be worn and might need to be repaired
or replaced sooner or later. Thats reflected in the lower price paid for a used car but thisdoesnt mean that an older car with higher mileage can be supplied with significant faults
present.
when did faults first appear?
Theres no dispute the car has faults present but theres some question over when these first
appeared. OCF says Mr B first contacted them about the problems he was having in July
2019. According to OCFs contact notes  which are contemporaneous and Id expect to be
reasonably accurate - it was more like mid-June. 
I think it looks as if Mr B had already complained to the supplying dealer and the broker 
some time before that. Mr B told us he had trouble with the car very early on  almost as 
soon as he got it  but the dealer was unhelpful. Our investigator asked the supplying dealer 
for more information but they werent able to provide much  they told her any paperwork 
they had would have gone with the car. 
The supplying dealer was able to recall that the timing chain was replaced by a main dealer 
in 2017, pursuant to a manufacturers recall. He felt that showed the car must have been in 
good condition with a full service history - or the manufacturer wouldnt have authorised this 
work under the warranty. I havent seen any documentary evidence of the 2017 repair. I 
have seen a document (which looks like an extract from the service book) that shows the 
timing chain was replaced in 2015 (as part of what seems to be a routine service) when the 
car had about 53,000 miles on the clock. 
I think its a bit surprising that the manufacturer would replace the timing chain again only 
two years later, in 2017  although I accept its possible the recall issue related to more than 
simply this particular part. I am not persuaded however that work done under the 
manufacturers warranty pursuant to a recall in 2017 means this car must have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B, nearly two years later.
Mr B went to some trouble to provide copies of messages he sent to the TPG and Im 
satisfied he contacted the TPG at the start of May 2019 to see if they could inspect the car 
and undertake repairs. I find that is consistent with Mr B first having problems within a few 
weeks of supply.
what faults were present and did the TPG make things worse?
The TPG says tests undertaken in May 2019 showed cylinders were mis-firing and, despite 
repair efforts, the problem could not be fixed. According to an email from the supplying 
dealer, they found injector three was missing a seal, a second hand ECU had been fitted 
and injectors and coil packs were working but the car would run for 30 seconds and then 
misfire - when they inspected in August 2019. 
The supplying dealer spent about seven hours working on the car but couldnt identify the 
cause of the problem. Like the TPG, they concluded the issue was probably electrical and 
the car should be examined by a main dealer as it was beyond their capability.
The TPG told us they tried to fix things by replacing the ECU - which explains the presence 
of the second hand ECU in the engine - and, in all likelihood, the absence of some trim in the 
engine compartment. I am not persuaded that this amounts to evidence of tampering. I 
think it suggests nothing more than the TPG tried to repair the car. And, when the repairs 
didnt work, the mechanic didnt reassemble everything in perfect condition  probably to 
reduce costs to Mr B (who the TPG knew was struggling).
I think the fact the supplying dealer found injectors and coil packs were working properly inAugust suggests the work carried out by the TPG was not substandard. The TPG told us
they removed the originals and replaced these with new ones and, when that didnt work, 
they removed the new ones and put the originals back (again to save Mr B some money). I 
think its also significant that the supplying dealer found re-fitting the original ECU (which the 
TPG had left in the boot) didnt resolve the problem that seems consistent with the TPGs 
conclusion that the ECU wasnt the issue.
Reading the supplying dealers comments with the TPGs report, I think the supplying dealer
essentially confirms what the TPG found in May 2019 the car had issues with misfires on 
injectors that couldnt be repaired in the usual way and the car had something wrong with it 
that needed input from a main dealer to resolve. I am not persuaded that the work 
undertaken by the TPG caused these issues or made them worse.
the experts findings
Im satisfied the expert is independent and appears to have appropriate experience. I think
its reasonable to give some weight to what he says (and does not say) in this situation. I
note that the expert does not confirm that the repairs carried out by the TPG were to a poor
standard. I would reasonably expect him to have done so if he considered this was the case.
Likewise, Id expect an independent expert to be clear if he found evidence of some sort of
tampering, but this expert was unable to do so.
I think its unfortunate that further investigations were not undertaken as this means the
experts findings are somewhat limited. He says further work is needed to identify what
caused the problem. I acknowledge the expert concludes that the faults present when he
inspected were unlikely to have been there when it was supplied but Im not
persuaded by the reasons he gives for this finding. The expert says there is no evidence
that the conditions present when he inspected were present at the point of supply and the
car would have been undriveable in that condition. I agree its unlikely Mr B would have
accepted a vehicle that was actively misfiring and/or undriveable when he collected it. But
thats not what Mr B says happened here.
Mr B says he started to have issues soon after collection and, when the dealer was
unresponsive, he took the car to the TPG in early May. OCF confirms that Mr B reported that
he had issues with the dealership when he first complained to them. I dont think its unusual 
for a consumer to take a car to a local garage in this situation - I find it understandable that 
Mr B would want to get a third partys opinion and have the car fixed as soon as possible.
Im satisfied that the TPG saw the car in early May 2019 and found it was misfiring. I think 
this suggests the faults the expert saw were present within weeks of supply  and before the 
TPG carried out repairs. Its not clear to me if the expert was provided with a timeline of 
events. I note he refers to the failure date as 8 July 2019 in his report. Im satisfied thats 
more than two months after Mr B first reported problems and I cant exclude the possibility 
that the expert might well have reached a different conclusion if he had more accurate 
information.
was the car of satisfactory quality?
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Mr B had significant problems with this car within
weeks of collection. According to the mileage recorded at the MOT in April 2019 and the
supplying dealer at the August 2019 inspection, he was able to drive it less than 2,000 miles
after supply. I dont think a fair minded person would expect a car of this age, price and
mileage to develop this sort of issue so soon. On balance, I am minded to find the weight of
the evidence suggests it is more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality when
Mr B got it.putting things right
Given the TPGs repairs were unsuccessful and the supplying dealer was also unable to fix
the problem (despite spending seven hours working on the car), I agree with our investigator 
that it would have been reasonable for OCF to agree to take the car back and cancel the 
finance in 2019. Wed usually require any deposit paid should also be refunded in this 
situation. The HPA says no advance payment was made here - if thats not correct the 
parties should let me know in response to this provisional decision.
It looks as if Mr B was able to drive the car for the first month or so, although his use was
somewhat impaired - the car was unreliable and lost power at times. I think it is fair that Mr B
should pay something for this use. I agree its reasonable to reduce the first finance payment
by 25% to reflect the impairment. Im satisfied that Mr B was unable to use the car after he 
took it to the TPG in early May 2019. So, if he made any finance payments after 6 May 2019, 
I think it is fair that those should be refunded in full.
The TPG charged Mr B £449 for the checks and repairs they carried out but Im not clear if 
thats the full cost - and I havent seen evidence of payment. I think its reasonable for OCF 
to refund the reasonable cost of repairs in this situation (subject to Mr B supplying evidence 
of the cost incurred). If repairs were paid for in instalments and its not possible to evidence 
each date of payment, OCF should calculate the interest payable from the date the TPG 
says the final payment was received - which I understand was 20 September 2019.
Mr B told us that he had to pay £100 to have the car recovered to the supplying dealership in
August 2019. He says hes lost the receipt for that. I dont think it should be too difficult for
OCF to check if Mr B was responsible for this payment and, subject to confirmation that is 
the case, I think its reasonable for OCF to refund this amount as well.
Mr B told our investigator that he lost his job because he was left without a car to get to 
work. And he found himself in considerable financial difficulties - including being unable to 
meet essential outgoings such as rent and finance payments, which led to the car being 
repossessed. I think OCF would have carried out a financial assessment before agreeing to 
lend in April 2019 and it must have been satisfied that Mr Bs circumstances were such that 
he could afford the monthly repayments at that time - and hed probably be able to maintain 
them. So, it seems unlikely that Mr B would have fallen into financial difficulties so soon, and 
had the car re-possessed, in the normal course of events. On balance, I dont think this 
would have happened if the car had not been faulty when it was supplied. I find it fair that 
OCF should remove any adverse information recorded against the HPA from Mr Bs credit 
file - and, if he was charged for the repossession, I think it is reasonable for OCF to refund 
that cost as well.
I realise Mr B feels that OCF should reimburse him for financial losses, including lost 
earnings when he couldnt drive the car for work. He provided some evidence from
his employer at the time and I have considered this. I accept transport issues may have
been one of the factors that contributed to Mr B losing out on work and earnings but I think
its unlikely to have been the sole cause. Mr B is also required to mitigate his losses. And I 
think its reasonable to expect him to try and arrange alternative transport in this situation. I 
note that OCF offered to contribute up to £25 a day towards the cost of alternative transport  
for a limited period, for example, but Mr B said he could manage and didnt take up the offer. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to require OCF to reimburse lost 
wages or income, from the evidence Ive seen. I have no doubt that what happened here 
caused Mr B a good deal of frustration, distress and inconvenience. I find it is fair that OCF 
pay him £350 compensation to reflect that. I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments
or information (that I hadnt seen before) by the 12 May 2021. 
The responses received from the parties 
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and supplied some evidence to show that the TPG 
was paid £449 for repairs. 
OCF disagrees and says (in summary)
all of the evidence, including the expert evidence, suggests faults were not present or 
developing at the point of sale - a misfire can occur at any time for a number of 
different reasons (due to owner neglect/ driving style or general wear and tear), a 
misfire would have been noticeable on the initial journey home if it had been present 
on collection and, if there was an issue with low oil, it would have caused a warning 
light to illuminate;
the broker was only made aware of the complaint by the lender some weeks after the 
original notification by the customer after repair attempts had taken place - Mr B may 
have had some contact with the dealer but this was not until around the same time as 
he contacted OCF  and outside of the 30 days (short term right to reject) and after 
he instructed a third party to carry out un-authorised repairs; and
the dealer chose to assist in spite of the repairs that voided the warranty but was 
unable to do so due to unknowns arising from the previous repairs, possible 
tampering and the need for a specialist/main dealer assessment.
OCF thinks its unfair to be held accountable for actions outside of the control of the 
dealer/broker/lender given Mr Bs decision to instruct a third party to repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OCF hasnt provided any fresh evidence or information and I dont think it has raised any 
material new points, in response to my provisional decision. Im satisfied Ive considered all 
the relevant issues in my provisional findings and nothing thats been said has changed my 
mind. 
For the reasons Ive explained already, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions. I think its more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. Im satisfied that Mr B contacted the TPG within weeks of collection 
and reported issues that sound the same as the faults found by the expert and the supplying 
dealer. I think its more likely than not Mr B had raised these issues with the dealer before he 
got in touch with the TPG, but the dealer was unhelpful. Im not persuaded that the repairs 
undertaken by the TPG caused the faults or made them worse. Im satisfied the supplying 
dealer was unable to repair the car when it inspected. And, taking everything into account, I 
think the redress proposed represents a fair and reasonable outcome overall.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Oodle Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car 
Finance) to1. end the HPA (if it hasnt ended already) with nothing further to pay on Mr Bs part 
(except as set out below);
2. refund 25% of the first finance payment and refund any finance payments made after 
that in full;
3. refund £449 (the cost of repairs) and £100 (the cost of recovering the car to the 
supplying dealer in August 2019) along with any charges Mr B incurred in respect of 
the repossession  subject to the provision of appropriate evidence;
4. pay interest at 8% simple a year on the above refunds, from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
5. pay Mr B £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
6. remove any adverse information recorded against the HPA from Mr Bs credit file.
 
If OCF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
If OCF does not pay the £350 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it that Mr B accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman