DRN-2150959
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) did after he made a 
claim on his motor legal assistance policy.
 
What happened
Mr M has car insurance with RSA. The policy entitles him to drive (with the owners 
permission) a car not belonging to him. It also includes a legal assistance plan which offers 
cover with legal expenses to assist with the recovery of uninsured losses following a car 
accident. 
In April 2018 Mr M had an accident while driving his mums car. He told RSA about this and 
said hed be pursuing the third party insurer for his losses. In October Mr M got in touch with 
RSA to say the third party insurer had offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability 
basis which he was unhappy with. And he asked if he could use his legal assistance policy 
to pursue matters. 
RSA referred the matter to panel solicitors who said in January 2019 a 50/50 split was the 
best outcome. RSAs notes say Mr M was told if he was unhappy with this hed need to get 
an alternative solicitors opinion in support of his position. An alternative firm did then contact 
RSA and it agreed to contact the panel firm and ask it to pass details of the claim over to it. 
But it doesnt appear those instructions were received by the panel firm. 
In April Mr M had further contact with RSA and decided at that time to pursue a 50/50 
settlement through the panel firm. He contacted RSA the following month to say he hadnt 
heard from the panel firm. It appears RSA missed information it already held on file and 
referred the matter to its legal helpline
No further action is recorded until October when solicitors for Mr M contacted RSA again and 
asked for cover to pursue a personal injury claim and other losses. RSA then said the claim 
wasnt covered because legal expenses cover only applied if Mr M was driving his own car. 
Following a complaint to us RSA accepted legal expenses cover was in place and offered to 
pay Mr M £150 for giving him incorrect information about this and other customer service 
failings. However, it said the claim wasnt covered because it had been told about it too late. 
It also said the limited information provided in October 2018 wasnt sufficient to establish 
whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success. Later it said initial analysis by the 
panel solicitors had enabled them to conclude it didnt. 
Our investigator asked RSA to clarify the reasons for turning the claim down and what term 
in the policy it was relying on. In response RSA reverted to its original position and said this 
was because the policy didnt cover Mr M when he was driving someone elses car. 
Our investigator didnt agree thats what the policy said. And although she accepted the 
claim had been notified to RSA late she didnt think it had shown it had been prejudiced as a 
result. She thought a payment of £150 was fair to reflect the customer service failings that 
had occurred here. But she thought RSA should consider the claim Mr M was now making 
against the remaining terms of the policy. If it still didnt think cover should be provided it 
should explain to Mr M why that was. 
In response Mr M provided further information from his current solicitors outlining why they 
thought the full claim did have prospects of success. RSA didnt respond. So I need to reach 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive thought first about whether Mr Ms claim is one thats covered by his policy. RSAs 
current position is the legal assistance policy doesnt apply where the policyholder is driving 
someone elses car (though it previously accepted that was the case and offered 
compensation for providing inaccurate information to Mr M about this). 
Ive looked at the terms of his legal assistance policy and I can see these say in the event of 
a Motor Accident, we will pay your Legal Expenses provided your Legal Representative is of 
the view that your claim for Uninsured Losses or the Legal Proceedings have Reasonable 
Prospects of being recovered from the party who caused the Motor Accident.
Motor Accident is defined as An incident which happens when you are using Your Car 
during the Period of Insurance and within the British Isles and which gives rise to Uninsured 
Losses.
The main policy term definition of your car includes one whose registration number is 
shown in your Certificate of Motor Insurance and your Schedule. So that wouldnt include 
the situation here where Mr M was driving his mums car. But the terms of his legal 
assistance policy have a separate definition of your car which say it applies to this section 
only. And that includes: 
The car stated in the Schedule, any replacement vehicle we arrange for you while your car is 
being repaired after you have claimed under this Policy, any other vehicle which your
Certificate of Motor Insurance allows you to use in the British Isles
Mr Ms certificate of motor insurance does allow him to drive another car which doesnt 
belong to him with the owners permission. I cant see any other term in the legal assistance 
policy which would exclude cover in this situation (and RSA hasnt suggested there is or 
quoted anything from the policy in support of its position). So, while I accept its for Mr M to 
show he has a valid claim under this policy, I think hes done that. 
Ive gone on to think about whether RSA can decline the claim on the basis it wasnt told 
about it in time. His policy says it wont provide cover for Legal Expenses if the claim is 
reported to us more than 180 days after the Motor Accident.Mr M told RSA about the accident hed been involved in in April 2018 but he didnt say he 
wanted to make a claim under his legal expenses policy until the following October. Looking 
at the dates involved Im satisfied that claim was made out of time (by around two weeks). 
So Mr M hasnt complied with the terms of his policy. However, I also need to think about 
whether those terms have been applied fairly. And a key consideration here is whether RSA 
has been adversely affected (or prejudiced) by the late notification. That might be the case 
where, for example, significant time had passed since the event in question (meaning there 
could be difficulties in finding evidence or tracing witnesses) or legal proceedings had been 
pursued which the insurer had no knowledge of or ability to influence. 
RSA hasnt suggested anything like that applies here. It has said allowing the claim might set 
an unfair precedent allowing non panel solicitors to fail to meet policy terms in future. 
However, Ive explained the approach we take to this situation and I dont think the grounds 
RSA has cited show it has been prejudiced by whats happened in this case. So, while I 
accept it was notified of the claim late, I dont think its fair in the circumstances of this case 
to apply that term. 
I also agree there have been customer service failings by RSA. Mr M expressed particular 
concern about a call he had with RSA. Ive listened to that call and I dont think the adviser 
was flippant or offhand. But equally I dont think he got to grips with the point Mr M was 
making. And I think there were also some missed opportunities by RSA to proactively follow 
up matters with the panel solicitors. 
I dont think that significantly delayed the progress of Mr Ms claim because I can see RSA 
advised him in February 2019 that hed need a supportive opinion on the claims prospects 
of success for this to be pursued. And it appears hes only been able to provide that more 
recently. I appreciate Mr M will have been confused by being given inaccurate information 
but I think the £150 RSA has now offered does enough to put things right here. 
RSA also needs to consider the claim Mr M is now making against the terms and conditions 
of his policy and cant use the reasons its previously cited to turn this down. Mr M will 
nevertheless need to show this claim meets the terms of the policy as they relate to 
reasonable prospects of success. However, as hes now got a legal opinion from his 
solicitors which suggests he does RSA should take that into account when considering this.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc will need to put 
things right by paying Mr M £150 and reconsidering his claim against the remaining terms 
and conditions of his policy (taking into account the legal opinion hes obtained from his 
solicitors). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman