DRN-3556020
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his with profits annuity with The Prudential Assurance Company
Limited (Prudential). Hes also raised a number of administration or service issues.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 21 March 2022. In it I set out in detail what had happened 
and the issues Mr H had raised. Im not going to repeat all that here. But, essentially, in 2008 
Mr H bought a with profits annuity with Prudential using the proceeds of two (paid up) 
policies he had with Prudential. He applied for an enhancement for medical/lifestyle 
conditions but Prudential told him that he didnt qualify. Mr H went ahead with the annuity 
purchase and he received his first annuity payment in January 2009.
Prudential was later required by the regulator to review some annuity sales, including Mr Hs. 
Prudential wrote to Mr H in on 16 September 2019 saying it had completed its review of the
annuity sale. The letter said Mr H hadnt suffered financially as a result of [Prudentials]
oversight. And that no compensation was due to him as, having assessed the medical and
lifestyle information hed provided based on guidance approved by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), he wouldnt have been eligible for an enhanced annuity (from Prudential) at 
the time.
Mr H was unhappy with that and raised a number of concerns. He didnt get a prompt 
response and a complaint (or rather complaints) developed about a large number of 
administrative matters. Mr H also raised concerns about the annuity sale itself, including 
issues arising from the review that had been undertaken. The complaint  about the service 
issues and the sale of the annuity  came to us. Ive summarised very briefly the findings I 
made in my provisional decision.
 
My provisional decision dated 21 March 2022
Mr Hs complaint about the service issues was detailed and wide ranging and comprised 
some sixteen or so overall complaints. For the reasons I set out I upheld most of them. 
Amongst other things, I said thered been delays on Prudentials part; failures to deal with 
some of Mr Hs complaints; a lack of attention to detail; failures to explain things properly; 
confusion over deadlines for referral of Mr Hs complaints to this service; and the use of 
incorrect addresses. Prudential had accepted that thered been some issues, including 
delays.  
I didnt think the administrative and service issues had caused Mr H any financial loss. But 
they had resulted in distress and inconvenience. I thought £750 was fair and reasonable 
compensation (and taking into account that Mr H had already received some smaller sums 
by way of compensation from Prudential). 
About the annuity review/sale I didnt think Prudential needed to do any more. In summary I 
said:
We could consider a complaint about the annuity sale notwithstanding it had been 
reviewed as agreed with the FCA. But we couldnt look into how the review was 
conducted and issues such as the competency of or decisions reached by the skilled 
person appointed by the FCA. Mr H would need to take up any concerns with the 
FCA. 
I wasnt bound to reach the same conclusions as the review. But I didnt disagree 
with the outcome. Prudential had accepted that the sale wasnt compliant. Prudential 
was unable to demonstrate that Mr H was made fully aware of enhanced annuities 
and the right to shop around. But, prior to that letter, Prudentials position wasnt 
clear. It had referred to an oversight without further explanation. Prudential had 
acknowledged that its final response letter of 24 December 2019 couldve better 
explained why the review had concluded Mr H hadnt suffered financially. I thought 
Prudential shouldve also made it clear in that letter that it accepted the sale wasnt 
compliant. 
I explained, where a business accepted it had done something wrong, wed then 
usually consider what, if any, detriment the consumer had suffered. Wed usually look 
to see what the consumers position wouldve been if the error hadnt happened and 
if the business had acted as it shouldve done. If the consumer was worse off 
financially, wed award redress aimed at putting the consumer back in the position 
theyd be in, but for the business mistake.
I thought Prudentials approach was similar. Having identified the annuity sale had 
been non compliant, Prudential then went on to consider what the outcome for Mr H 
wouldve been, had Prudential given him all the information it shouldve done before 
he bought his annuity with Prudential. I agreed with why it had been concluded that 
Mr H hadnt suffered any financial loss. 
Mr H didnt buy a conventional annuity with Prudential. He purchased a with profits 
annuity  a specialist product which isnt offered by all annuity providers. A with 
profits annuity introduces an element of investment risk and the potential for growth 
and an increased income. Income can go up or down but will never fall below a 
minimum amount  the minimum guarantee  and depends on the chosen ABR 
(anticipated bonus rate).
The market for enhanced with profits annuities was discussed with the FCA who 
appointed an actuarial firm who confirmed to Prudential and the FCA in 2017 that 
there was effectively no external market for enhanced with profits annuities. Other 
providers offered with profits annuities. But Prudential was the only provider offering 
such annuities on an enhanced basis, subject to an applicant meeting Prudentials 
conditions for an enhancement.
I thought that was significant in terms of what Mr Hs options were. If he didnt meet 
Prudentials underwriting criteria for an enhanced annuity, he wouldnt have been 
able to have approached another provider for the same product. On that basis no 
loss flowed from Prudentials failure to make it clear to him that different providers 
might have different criteria for granting an enhanced with profits annuity  Mr H 
couldnt have approached another provider anyway. Mr H hadnt chosen a 
conventional annuity but a with profits annuity. It seemed he wanted the benefits and 
features that particular product offered. And, if his decision was dependent on getting 
an enhancement, he knew that hadnt been granted before he went ahead with the 
annuity purchase. 
Prudential had reviewed its decision not to offer Mr H an enhanced with profits 
annuity. Hed said he didnt recall completing a (medical/lifestyle) questionnaire but it 
seems he did. Hed said the information requested wasnt as detailed as that required 
by other providers, such as the company he dealt with the following year. But 
Prudentials questionnaire did ask for details of medication which Mr H gave. There 
wasnt a section specifically dealing with smoking history. But, during the review 
process, he gave full details of his medical conditions and his lifestyle, including his status as a previous heavy smoker. And hed also explained to Prudential during the 
review why he considered he shouldve been granted an enhancement.
Prudential had reviewed all that, both during the review and as part of Mr Hs 
complaint and had confirmed that Mr Hs medical and lifestyle conditions wouldnt 
have qualified him for an enhancement with Prudential at the time.
As Mr H accepted, Prudential is entitled to set its own criteria. Business decisions 
that Prudential makes, including the criteria it sets for saying that someone is entitled 
to an enhanced annuity, arent within my remit. So I couldnt look into whether 
Prudentials underwriting criteria was fair or in line with other providers. And who 
didnt offer enhanced with profits annuities anyway.
In the circumstances, I agreed with Prudentials review conclusion  that Mr H hadnt 
suffered any financial detriment even though the annuity sale was non compliant. In 
awarding redress for the service issues, I took into account Prudentials failings in not 
explaining properly the review outcome and not dealing with all of Mr Hs queries. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Prudential didnt agree with all of my provisional findings. In summary it said there were 
complaint points it had previously been unaware of and hadnt had the chance to investigate 
and respond to. 
It agreed that the complaint acknowledgement and the four week update letters were sent to 
the wrong address but £50 had been paid to Mr H for that. And an ex gratia payment of £175 
had been agreed for the delays in responding to his letter of 10 October 2019. 
Prudential also agreed that the two letters dated 24 December 2019 wouldve caused 
confusion. But Prudential said it had no evidence that the final response letter of that date 
may not have been issued until 2 January 2020. It had been correctly addressed and 
Prudential didnt think any compensation was due.
Prudential did agree that its complaint responses and, in particular, the original response, 
couldve provided more specific answers to Mr Hs questions. It accepted that the further 
letters issued with the incorrect spelling of the town name wouldve caused more concern, 
especially if, in the past, Mr H had been a victim of identity theft. 
Prudential said the correctly addressed letters of 24 December 2019 and 7 April 2020 had 
been received by Mr H. Although hed said he was able to read his personal information 
through the window of the envelope, the letters were correctly addressed and were in the 
hands of the post office for that time. 
Although Prudential agreed that a further payment was due to Mr H it didnt agree it should 
amount to £750.
Mr H said he appreciated the effort taken to review the administration/service complaint in 
such detail. He didnt agree with all of my conclusions but he said Id offered an acceptable 
compromise and, provided Prudential also accepted it, he wouldnt make any further 
observations. 
With regard to the annuity review/sale complaint, Mr H said he had great difficulty in 
agreeing with my conclusions and which Id reached without a full understanding of the 
skilled persons reports. His responded in detail about the annuity review/sale compliant. His 
response was split into ten sections. Ive read and considered all Mr H has said. What 
follows is a very brief summary of each section and some of the main points.  
Section 1Mr H referred to the three call recordings wed provided to him and which he explained were 
relevant to his decision making in December 2008. Amongst other things he said there was 
only one brief disclosure of the OMO (open market option). No details of the OMO options 
were given and the statement was preceded by the call handler saying that Prudential 
wanted to keep Mr H as a customer  something the regulator had highlighted as being non 
compliant. The OMO wasnt later restated over the telephone and further copies of the 
documentation werent sent  the telephone calls confirm that Prudential was only required 
to send them at the outset. Enhanced annuities on medical grounds were discussed, but 
only in relation to Prudential products. Mr H said he wasnt told other providers may offer 
enhanced annuities or may have different underwriting criteria, whether for medically 
enhanced annuities or generally. 
During one call the call handler confirmed there were guaranteed annuities or guaranteed 
annuity rates (GARs) built into Mr Hs policies. That contradicted written information Mr H 
had requested and which, after a delay, hed just received. Quotations for both standard 
rates and those provided for in the policy would be issued. But identifying which quotations 
were which was very confusing. Mr H says comparing quotes was impossible. 
Mr H said he then hadnt understood the implications of any guaranteed element. By the 
time he decided to opt for the with profits annuity he hadnt received the additional 
quotations hed requested but he was under pressure to accept a quotation as it seemed 
there was a pending cut in final bonus rates which would dramatically affect the policy 
values. Mr H also said what he was told about bonus rates for with profits annuities was 
misleading. 
Section 2
Mr H referred to the regulatory requirements in force at the time, including COBS (Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook) 19.4 which required Prudential, having chosen not to provide a 
copy of the relevant FSA (Financial Services Authority)/MAS (Money Advice Service) 
factsheet, to provide a written statement providing materially the same information. Mr H 
didnt think Prudentials written information did that. 
He also mentioned reviews carried out by the regulator, Prudentials past business review of 
non advised annuity sales (which had included the sale of his annuity) and the FCAs Final 
Notice issued to Prudential on 30 September 2019. He cited what he regarded as 
Prudentials sales focused approach, a lack of training and governance and a dependency 
on a high customer retention rate. He said the regulator may have accepted that Prudentials 
written documentation was compliant but Prudentials call handlers had undermined the 
OMO and enhanced annuities message. 
Section 3
Mr H referred to the peer review hed undertaken and which he said demonstrated that the 
average consumer wouldnt agree that the KFD (key features document) in use in 2008 was 
fully compliant. 
Hed also undertaken research into historic annuity rates which indicated the annuity rate 
Prudential had quoted in December 2008 of 6.18% at age 57 was about 78% of the average 
rate for a 65 year old. In April 2010 Mr H (at age 58) had obtained a rate of 6.29% (on a 
smaller fund) which was about 95% of the average rates for a 65 year old at the time. Mr H 
suggested that was in real terms about 18% higher than the Prudential rate. Hed concluded 
the enhancement (I think thats the rate he got in 2010 from another provider) may not have been entirely down to medical issues and may have reflected more general underwriting 
conditions and possibly Prudential not being competitive at the time. 
Section 4
Mr H said Prudential accepted (as had I) that it couldnt prove it was compliant regarding the 
information that shouldve been provided about enhanced annuities. Mr H said that stemmed 
back to the decision not to provide a copy of the regulators fact sheet and then failing to 
provide a statement that gave materially the same information. 
Hed analysed the sales documents hed received and found five relevant documents  two 
quotations, the KFD and two fact sheets. Only one covered GARs (the Get Ready for Your 
Pension brochure) but he didnt think hed received a copy. Reference in the KFD to the 
OMO was limited. It detailed Prudentials own enhanced annuity but didnt link that to the 
OMO. The quotation didnt include details about the GAR or say that by accepting the 
quotation Mr H was giving up his rights to a GAR. The Its Now Time to Arrange Your 
Pension brochure doesnt mention GARs. Enhanced annuities are mentioned but limited to 
serious medical conditions and with no link to the OMO.  
None of the documents provided up to the end of December 2008 provided him with the 
required information about enhanced annuities. There were a number of references to the 
OMO. But what Mr H termed the call handlers scripted tactics  for example, saying that 
Prudential has a comprehensive product range and competitive rates  intervened. 
And the section headed What Must I do Now gives a clear option of taking the Prudential 
annuity without investigating the OMO. Whereas the regulators fact sheet clearly states the 
OMO options, including enhanced annuities, should be checked out prior to making any 
decision. And the OMO disclosure is immediately followed by a page about why the 
customer should chose Prudential  effectively a list of reasons why the customer shouldnt 
shop around. The OMO information isnt presented well  the brief mention of the OMO in 
the introduction directs the customer to the section about choosing Prudential and not to the 
pages which explain the OMO further. And the customer is directed to call Prudentials 
advisers  and which raises all the issues of what call handlers had been instructed to say 
over the telephone in order to retain customers.
 
Section 5 
Mr H referred again to the three telephone calls which he said evidenced multiple non 
compliant acts, examples of which he set out and which he said had influenced his decision 
making process. Mr H referred again to Prudential making only one brief comment about the 
OMO in the calls and then undermining that. And to information about GARs being unclear 
and contradicting the written information Mr H had received. And to the delay in getting that 
information which meant that by December 2008 he was under time pressure.
Section 6
Mr H said his decision to buy a with profits annuity was a key issue. He clarified his 
understanding of the product and how his investment had performed. In general terms his 
total income had increased but his regular income - despite the performance of the parent 
with profits fund  had reduced, meaning that every year was more dependent on the one off 
additional bonus. He said the promised relationship between the regular bonus and the with 
profit fund bonus rate hadnt materialised. He said other with profits annuity providers had 
done better and wouldve been available to him if hed taken the OMO but Prudentials sales 
activities had kept that door well and truly shut. Section 7
Mr H said Prudentials delay in providing details of his policies had led to what Mr H termed a 
last grasp dash to buy an annuity in December 2008.  None of the annuity illustrations 
provided the information required by the regulator and Mr H felt hed been left to sieve 
through multiple quotations trying to piece together a picture that shouldve been made clear 
by Prudentials documentation. He said it took months to receive a written response saying 
he wasnt eligible for a GAR and that was then contradicted over the telephone. He hadnt 
received the document which he thought had been launched sometime in December 2008 
which included a section on GARs. And he thought it was ambiguous anyway.   
Section 8
Mr H went through his options during the decision making process. He said hed identified 
and provided evidence of the non compliant acts: Prudentials failure to provide him with a 
written OMO statement that provided materially the same as the FSA/MAS fact sheet issued 
in 2008; Prudentials failure to properly manage its call centre staff and its written 
documentation  both of which undermined any OMO disclosures Prudential had made 
during the sales process; Prudentials failure to properly advise him of the impact of the 
GARs built into his policies and their relevance in using the OMO as well as the benefits of 
deferring benefits. Mr H said Prudential had given inconsistent information and he wasnt 
sure when a GAR applies and in what circumstances it could be lost. 
Section 9 
Mr H set out how he considered Prudential should redress him. He said, during the sales 
process, hed been offered the following options: an annuity with a 3% increase (starting 
income of £1,089 pa); a level annuity (£1,581 pa); the 3% with profits annuity (starting 
income of £1,449 pa). After buying the with profits annuity hed then in 2010 taken a level 
annuity and then a 3% increasing annuity in 2012 (both using he OMO). He suggested that 
those three annuity types should be considered in calculating any redress. He said he had 
no allegiance to any particular annuity type and, if properly advised about the OMO, hed 
have considered his options and, if to his advantage, taken the OMO. 
He pointed out that there were other with profits annuity providers at the time. He suggested 
other providers ABR may have been linked more closely to their with profits funds 
performance, a matter which hed raised with Prudential and so wouldve been a factor in 
comparing with profits annuities on the open market. His research indicated that other 
providers with profits funds had a better performance record and/or that other providers 
offered more competitive annuity rates generally, whether with or without any enhancement 
for medical/lifestyle conditions. 
Based on extrapolated data he thought hed make the right decision on the information he 
had in selecting the with profits annuity rather than the level or increasing annuity options. 
But his minimum income had been compromised and going forwards his income could fall to 
below the levels offered by the other two annuity options. And he said that other, open 
market, annuity options shouldve been on the table. He set out details of the level annuity 
hed purchased in 2010 and the 3% increasing annuity hed taken in 2012 (hed used the 
OMO both times). He said he wouldnt have chosen his current with profits annuity from 
Prudential. He set out other options which would again have meant hed have made a 
different decision or possibly Prudential offering him a revised with profits annuity into 
account what other providers might have paid. 
Section 10 Mr H confirmed he still hadnt received a copy of the skilled persons report from the FCA.
Our further enquiries
We raised some further queries with Prudential. We said that part of Mr Hs focus in 
responding to my provisional decision had been on the three telephone calls, recordings of 
which had been made available to him. We shared with Prudential what Mr H had said about 
the calls in section 1 of his response. Amongst other things we asked for a copy of the letter 
Mr H had said hed received (only three days before one of his calls with Prudential) saying 
he didnt benefit from any guaranteed annuity or GARs.  We also asked for confirmation of 
the position about any guaranteed annuity or GARs; if what Mr H had been told over the 
telephone that guarantees applied was correct; and if his age at the time (57) was relevant. 
We also said that Mr H had referred to delays in providing information about any guaranteed 
annuity or GARs. We asked what Prudentials records showed about when Mr H had first 
started to enquire about taking his benefits; what enquiries he made; and what responses 
hed received about any guaranteed annuities and/or GARs. And we asked about whether 
what Mr H had been told about changes to bonus rates affecting his fund values was correct. 
Prudential responded and provided some brief answers and some further documents, 
including a copy of its letter of 3 November 2008. But Prudential said the queries Mr H was 
now raising were new points and not connected to the outcome of the annuity review. 
Prudential said, if Mr H had concerns about the actual product he bought, information 
regarding any guaranteed rates, or delays in providing that, those were all new complaint 
points and would need to be logged as new complaints. Prudential objected to us 
investigating any points outside of what it had already responded to and relating to the 
outcome of the annuities thematic review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Service issues
Prudential doesnt disagree there were service failings and accepts further compensation is 
due to Mr H. But Prudential doesnt agree it should be as much as the amount I proposed - 
£750.
In awarding that amount I took into account that thered been a delay in Prudential issuing its 
final response letter dated 24 December 2019. My understanding was that Prudential 
accepted that the letter (although correctly addressed) may not have been dispatched until 2 
January 2020. But it seems Prudential doesnt agree there was that delay. 
Mr H has said he didnt get the letter promptly and I accept that his receipt of the letter was 
delayed. But the issue is whether that was due to Prudential not dispatching the letter on the 
date it was prepared. I can see, given the date of the letter, that there might have been 
issues such as early closure of Prudentials post room, early collection of mail from 
Prudential and no collection the following days. But there may also have been other 
problems outside Prudentials control, such as there being no postal service over the 
Christmas period. Its probably going to be impossible now to ascertain exactly what 
happened to the letter, when it came into the post offices hands and if there was delay on 
Prudentials part in dispatching it. Against that background Ive considered again the award I proposed. But I maintain, taking 
into account the number of service failures I identified, that its still in the range wed award 
for those sorts of issues. Those include Prudentials admitted failures in responding to Mr Hs 
complaint and providing specific answers to his queries. I think Mr H was caused 
considerable inconvenience and hes spent much time collating Prudentials responses and 
explaining to Prudential, more than once, exactly what his concerns were and what 
information he was seeking. Theres also the issue of the incorrectly addressed letters, 
including Prudentials failure to correct the spelling of the town name and its impact on Mr H, 
given his previous experience as a victim of identity theft and which had led to court 
proceedings.  
All in all I maintain that £750 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr H has suffered as a result of Prudentials service failings. Hes indicated 
hes prepared to accept that sum in an effort to draw a line under this aspect of the matter. I 
dont think either partys interests would be best served by prolonging matters. So Ive made 
an award for £750 below. 
New complaint points
As Ive set out above, Prudential has objected to us considering, as part of this complaint, 
some of the concerns raised by Mr H in response to my provisional decision. Prudential says 
these are new complaint points which would need to be raised with Prudential as new and 
separate complaints. 
I agree with Prudential that some of the points made by Mr H in response to my provisional 
decision are new issues and fall outside the scope of this complaint. 
 
In saying that, I accept that all of the issues, including the points Mr H has more recently 
raised, relate to the sale of his annuity. So I can understand why he might say that its all 
part of the same overall complaint. 
But the complaint weve been considering arose out of the review that Prudential undertook 
and, in particular, the outcome of that review  that no redress was due. The review looked 
at whether Mr H had been given all the information that shouldve been provided about 
enhanced annuities and the OMO. And thats been Mr Hs focus in bringing his complaint 
about the sale of his annuity. 
Mr H is now saying there were other problems. Hes concerned about delays in providing 
information when he first started thinking about taking benefits from his policies; confusion 
about if his policies had a guaranteed annuity or a GAR; confusion generally with the various 
quotations; and information given about bonus rate changes which would affect fund values 
which, coupled with the delay at the start, meant he was pressurised into making a decision 
quickly. 
I think those are all significant new points which cant simply be incorporated into and treated 
as part of Mr Hs existing complaint. Mr H himself has referred to issue about any 
guaranteed annuity or GARs as a new can of worms. Id agree with that. I accept that 
Prudential should have the opportunity to consider what Mr H is saying about that and each 
of the other new points and why he considers Prudential didnt deal with those matters as it 
shouldve done and how that impacted on him. So Im not going to try to deal with those new 
issues as part of this, already extensive, complaint.
If Mr H wants to pursue the further points, hell need to contact Prudential direct and raise a 
fresh complaint about those further matters relating to the sale of his annuity. The annuity review/sale 
Mr H has made extensive comments in response to my provisional decision about the 
annuity. Ive read and considered all hes said. And Im grateful to him for taking the trouble 
to explain in such detail why he doesnt accept what Ive said about this aspect of the matter. 
But I trust Mr H wont take it as any discourtesy that Im not going to comment on everything 
hes said and Ive focused instead on what I see as the key considerations. And, despite all 
Mr H has said, I havent been persuaded to reach different conclusions from those set out in 
my provisional decision. 
Mr H remains unhappy that the skilled persons reports havent been disclosed. Prudential 
has said theyre confidential and so wont be made available to Mr H (or to us). Mr H has 
since requested the reports from the FCA as a FOI (Freedom of Information) request but he 
hasnt got the reports yet. Im not sure that the FCA will agree to disclose the reports to him. 
But in any event I think I can fairly decide Mr Hs complaint without sight of the skilled 
persons reports. First, as I explained in my provisional decision, I cant consider any 
concerns such as how the skilled person undertook the review or their competency. And 
secondly, and more importantly, I dont think theres any dispute about the outcome of the 
review  that the sale wasnt compliant. Prudential has accepted that it cant demonstrate 
that it made Mr H fully aware of enhanced annuities and the right to shop around.
Mr H has gone through the written documentation (which he doesnt accept was compliant), 
the telephone calls and the sales process generally to explain how he considers Prudential 
fell short and how that impacted on his decision making. I understand his argument that he 
made his decision to buy any annuity from Prudential without full disclosure of his OMO 
rights. And, specifically about with profits annuities, that he wasnt made aware that another 
provider might offer more beneficial underwriting criteria and leaving aside any specific 
enhancement on medical or lifestyle grounds. 
But I dont think its necessary for me to adopt the approach Mr H has taken. I think its 
sufficient to start from the broader base that Prudential accepts the sale wasnt compliant. 
So Im not going to set out whether I agree with what Mr H has said about each and every 
point which he considers demonstrates non compliance. For example, one of his central 
arguments is, having decided to supply its own information about the OMO, Prudentials 
literature didnt contain materially the same information as the regulator required. For the 
record I dont agree with all Mr H has said about alleged deficiencies in Prudentials 
documentation and notwithstanding the peer review he conducted. But, that aside, I think the 
essential point is that Prudential accepts, somewhere along the line and possibly in more 
than one instance, its sales process may have been flawed. 
Against that background I think I can focus on whether Mr H has suffered any loss in 
consequence of Prudentials admitted failure(s). But, before I go on to consider again that 
central issue, Ill comment briefly on each section of Mr Hs response.  
Section 1 is largely about the three call recordings and their relevance to Mr Hs decision 
making. But, as Ive explained, a lot of the points made are new and Im not going to 
consider them in the context of this decision. But I note what Mr H has said about the brief 
disclosure of the OMO during the first call being undermined by the statement that Prudential 
wanted to retain him as a customer. And what hes said about a failure to advise that other 
providers might have different underwriting criteria generally.  
With regards to section 2, as Ive said above, Im not going to carry out an assessment of 
exactly how, where and when there might have been compliance failures on Prudentials 
part. And, in so far as section 3 is concerned, again as Ive already indicated, Im not convinced about everything Mr H has said about the KFD in use at the time and its alleged 
deficiencies. Ive also noted what hes said about the possibility that Prudentials annuity 
rates at the time may not have been competitive. But, as Ive said below, I dont think that 
must have been the case. And, with regard to section 4, I can only repeat that Im not 
convinced a line by line, document by document, approach to the written information 
Prudential provided is warranted. And Im not considering Mr Hs comments about the failure 
to deal with any guaranteed annuity and/or GARs. Similar comments also apply to section 5. 
Turning to section 6, I agree and as Ive mentioned further below, that Mr Hs decision to buy 
a with profits annuity is a key issue. But Im not considering if Mr H was misled about how 
that product would operate, including what he was told about the relationship of bonus rates 
for his with profits annuity and the providers with profits fund. And section 7 focuses on 
Prudentials alleged delay and which Mr H says led to him having to make a rushed decision. 
Again thats not something Im considering as part of this complaint. Nor am I looking at if the 
information Mr H was given about any guaranteed annuity and/or GARs was clear and 
correct. The same applies to section 8 to the extent that it concerns any guaranteed annuity 
and/or GARs.
Ive considered section 9 but I dont see its relevant. Mr H refers to the three annuity options 
he was considering when he selected the with profits annuity and to the two annuities he 
went on to purchase in 2010 and 2012 using the OMO. But Im only considering his decision 
to buy a with profits annuity with Prudential in 2008. From what Ive seen, he wanted that 
type of annuity. Hed been considering a range of annuity options. It isnt clear exactly when 
he decided hed opt for a with profits annuity  hes said it was somewhere between two of 
the telephone calls he had with Prudential. I dont think his decision was influenced by 
Prudential  it didnt give Mr H any advice about what type of annuity he should buy.
A with profits annuity isnt comparable to a conventional annuity. So I dont see the logic of 
Mr Hs arguments that hed have selected a conventional annuity, whether level or 
increasing, from a different provider instead. Or why redress is due based on a completely 
different product which might have been offered to him by a different provider. Nor do I see 
theres any basis to assume that Prudential may have been prepared to offer a better rate for 
a with profits annuity had he explored options with another provider. 
Regarding section 10, Ive noted that no copy of the skilled persons report has been 
produced but Ive explained why I consider I can still reach a fair decision. As Ive said, I 
think the central issue is what Prudential needs to do to ascertain if Mr H has suffered any 
loss in consequence of Prudentials admitted acceptance that it cant show the annuity sale 
was compliant. I think what Prudential has done  as required by the skilled persons report 
and in consultation with the regulator  isnt unfair or unreasonable. 
It wasnt open to Mr H to have shopped around for an enhanced version of a with profits 
annuity. At the time there was no open marked for enhanced with profit annuities on a non 
advised basis. Prudential was the only provider offering an enhanced with profits annuity and 
so Prudential effectively represented the market for that product. On that basis any redress 
didnt include a shopping around element, only an enhanced annuity component by 
reference to Prudentials own pricing and underwriting criteria. 
Mr H has said that a with profits annuity from another provider may have offered a better 
rate, even without an enhancement. But that isnt possible to say with certainty. The with 
profits annuity market was limited anyway and although Mr H has suggested that 
Prudentials rates may not have been competitive I dont think theres anything to say that 
was definitely the case and that Mr H wouldve got a better rate for a with profits annuity on a 
non enhanced basis from another provider. In any event I still dont think the approach to redress was unfair or unreasonable, given that enhanced with profits annuities werent 
available on the open market anyway.  
Prudential has reviewed its decision not to offer Mr H an enhanced with profits annuity. He 
gave full details of his health/lifestyle at the time but Prudential confirmed he wouldnt have 
met its criteria at the time. I dont see any reason to think thats wrong or that Prudential 
hasnt reviewed its earlier decision properly. So I dont think Prudential needs to do any more 
in respect of the sale of Mr Hs annuity. 
In reaching my conclusions Id just make it clear that, for the reasons Ive explained above, 
Im not considering the further points Mr H has more recently raised about the annuity sale 
and those issues dont form part of this decision.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint but only to the extent Ive indicated above. The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited must pay £750 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered as a result of the failings Ive identified.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman