DRN-3689390
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(formerly Portafina LLP) to transfer his existing personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) and invest into funds which have since failed.
What happened
Mr D was advised by Portal in October 2009 to transfer benefits from an occupational 
pension to a personal pension with Aegon. He wanted to access tax-free cash. This advice 
forms not part of this complaint and so wont be addressed further in this decision.
A fact find showed that at the time of the advice he was 55, married and earning £21,500 per 
year. He had an unencumbered home, minimal savings and around £13,000 loan and credit 
card debts. He wanted to retire at 60.
In April 2010 Portal wrote to Mr D to say his pension should be reviewed and they had 
identified funds which may be suitable for him. Theres no evidence a new fact find was 
completed. Portal advised him in September 2010 to transfer his Aegon plan worth around 
£66,800 to a SIPP and invest it as follows:
30% Hypa Raithwaite fund 
50% Hypa Asia fund 
15% Koroni fund 
 5% Cash fund 
In November 2020, Mr D received correspondence from the SIPP provider explaining the 
SIPP had no cash balance or realisable assets. He was also told he might be able to claim 
compensation.
In January 2021 Mr D complained to Portal. They said Mr D had complained outside the 
regulators time limits. 
One of our investigators considered Portals objections and found Mr Ds complaint was 
made in time and could be considered by our service. He then considered the merits of Mr 
Ds complaint . He thought Portal had given Mr D unsuitable advice and they should 
compensate him for his losses.
Portal disagreed that the complaint was made in time. Despite being asked to do so, they 
didnt provide further comments with regards to the merits, but they previously did provide 
their business file which was considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The regulator has set rules for this service about when we can and cant consider
complaints, the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. With regards to time limits, DISP 2.8.2R
sets out that:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint:
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received.
Mr D complained clearly outside the six-year time limit. So the key issue here to consider is 
whether Mr D ought to have reasonably been aware more than three years before he 
complained in January 2021 (i.e. before January 2018) that he had cause for complaint.
Portal referred to several events that they say should have triggered Mr Ds awareness. 
They provided a letter they sent to Mr D in February 2014 which explained that the Koroni 
fund was being wound up which meant the funds would be encashed and proceeds paid to 
Mr Ds pension account.  The SIPP provider had also given the holding a nominal value of 
£1. However, Portals letter assured Mr D that one payment representing of 40% of his asset 
shares had already been paid and the fund administrators would soon make another 
announcement. And they told Mr D that the SIPP value did not represent the true value of 
his fund. 
In 2016, Mr D was sent a SIPP statement showing the value of his funds at around £34,000. 
I considered that this was a large difference to his initial investment and it seems Mr D did 
contact Portal and raised concerns about the drop in value. But Ive seen an undated letter 
from Portal to Mr D which looks like it was sent in response to this. It offered reassurances 
that the underlying security would likely be sold soon and values would likely be greater than 
the unaudited values given. And the letter from the SIPP provider did say that it was the 
investment providers full intention to repay any interest due and release invested capital 
back to investors.
I think the information Mr D received would have reassured him that he would still receive his 
capital and interest and there were measures in place to manage the investments 
appropriately. 
Portal say the Hypa Raithwaite investment was given a nil value in November 2017. 
However, Portal sent Mr D a letter in December 2017 telling him this didnt mean his 
investments were worthless, that he still owned the assets, that work was ongoing to 
liquidate his investments and that he should not worry. He was also told that if his funds 
were still illiquid if he reached retirement age Portal would cover the income payments from 
their own funds.
Overall, based on the information I have, I cant see that Mr D ought to have reasonably 
been aware he had cause for complaint before January 2018. He said he was reassured by 
Portal throughout which is supported by the written communications to him Ive seen. I find it persuasive that he only realised there was an issue when he was informed in November 
2020 that his SIPP didnt have any value.
Im satisfied that Mr D complained within the given time limits and that I can consider the 
merits of his complaint which Ive done below.
Was Mr D given suitable advice?
Mr D was advised to switch to a SIPP and invest in non-standard, specialist investments. 
The suitability report said he was an adventurous investor. Portals description of investors 
with this risk attitude was that up to 50% may be medium risk equity and property 
investments or a broad selection of UK equities and up to 50% could be invested in higher 
risk overseas property or emerging markets equity funds.
Ive seen a risk profiler which was completed when Portal gave Mr D advice in 2009 which 
indicates that he did want to take some risk with his pension, so this assessment of his risk 
attitude doesnt seem unreasonable. 
However, I cant see any good reason for Mr D to switch his pension. He had only been 
advised a year previously by Portal to invest 75% of his funds into balanced funds and 25% 
in a dynamic fund (which was categorised by Aegon as above average risk). This investment 
strategy seems in line with Mr Ds attitude to risk and the SIPP recommended instead was a 
more expensive arrangement. The suitability report said he could get better returns in the 
SIPP, however I think the risks of the recommended investments which were described as 
low risk, low-medium risk and medium to high risk were in my view underplayed. These were 
high risk unregulated and specialist investments. 
Based on the fact find in 2009 I cant see that Mr D had a particular high capacity for loss 
and no significant investment experience, so I dont think he had the necessary knowledge 
and experience to fully understand the risks of these investments. Advising him to invest his 
entire pension fund this way was unsuitable in my view. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr D in the position he likely would have been without Portals unsuitable 
advice in 2010. I think if Portal hadnt advised Mr D to switch his pension to a SIPP, Mr D 
would have likely remained invested in his Aegon pension.
Portal should:
Request a notional value from Aegon. Portal should calculate compensation by 
comparing the value that Mr Ds pension would have been at the date of my final 
decision if it had remained invested as it was before the switch (Value A) with the 
value of his SIPP (Value B) on the same date. If Value A is higher than B, then the 
difference between A and B is the loss.
When calculating Value A, any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to 
the notional value calculations from the point in time when they were paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the notional value 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if they are totalled and all those payments 
deducted at the end instead of deducting periodically. Mr D says Portal promised to pay him an annual income from their own funds whilst 
his funds were illiquid which they started paying him but this stopped again after the 
first payment. Portal can deduct any payments they paid to Mr D from the loss 
amount.
I understand Mr Ds investments are illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market. This means it can be complicated to establish Value B. Portal should 
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above. 
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of the calculation. Portal may require that Mr D provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred 
on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how 
this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is something that 
Mr D can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will 
take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
The SIPP provider wrote to Mr D in November 2020 telling him they would remove all 
remaining fees whilst the future value of the investments was uncertain. But they 
reserved the right to charge fees if compensation from this service or FSCS was 
received. Any fees the SIPP charges Mr D retrospectively should be covered by 
Portal. If the SIPP provider starts charging fees again after compensation has been 
received, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five
years worth of SIPP fees (based on what the SIPP provider is intending to charge in 
line with their terms and conditions). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid, assumed to be 20%.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr D £300 for the distress and worry he suffered when 
he realised he had lost significant parts of his pension and he couldnt access it when 
he wanted to.
Portal should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Mr D within 28 days of us 
notifying them that Mr D has accepted my final decision.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr D in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022. Ive given an extended period as Mr D has 
recently moved abroad and might be difficult to contact.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman