DRN-2888435
The complaint
Mr H complains that OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) didnt update his 
address meaning he didnt receive legal notices relating to his mortgage. Mr H asks that the 
legal fees applied to his mortgage by Kent Reliance are refunded.
 
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Kent Reliance. The mortgage loan was secured on a house in 
shared ownership with a housing association. The housing association wrote to Kent 
Reliance saying Mr H was in rent arrears. Kent Reliance said Mr H was in breach of the 
terms of his mortgage and started legal action. It added the legal costs to Mr Hs mortgage. 
Mr H says these charges are unfair.
Mr H says he didnt receive letters from Kent Reliance about this. He said if he had hed 
have taken action to avoid legal action being taken.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties saying that I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. I said Kent Reliance made errors which meant Mr H didnt receive letters from its 
solicitors: he didnt have an opportunity to take steps to avoid legal action being taken. I said 
Kent Reliance should refund legal fees applied to Mr Hs account. Mr H agreed. Kent 
Reliance didnt respond. I havent received any further comments or evidence that would 
lead me to change the outcome or reasons for my decision from those set out in the 
provisional decision  and which are substantially as set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has a mortgage with Kent Reliance, secured on a property in joint ownership with a 
housing association. Initially, Mr H lived at this address (the security address). Mr H 
separated from his partner and he moved out of the property. He updated his address (to 
address B) with Kent Reliance in May 2018.
Mr H moved again in March 2019. He provided evidence that he paid for his mail to be 
redirected from address B to his new address (address C). He didnt update his address with 
Kent Reliance at this time.
In April 2019 Kent Reliance received a request from the housing association for payment of 
rent arrears in relation to the security property. It provided a copy of a letter from the housing 
association saying it had served a notice of seeking possession on Mr H. The letter said the 
housing association would take legal action to recover arrears, and it hoped Kent Reliance 
would forward payment to clear the account. It attached a copy of the notice of seeking 
possession, which was addressed to Mr H at the security address.
Kent Reliance wrote to Mr H at address B in June 2019. It said it had received a request for 
payment of rent arrears of about £2,800. The letter said failing to meet the terms of the 
property lease was a breach of the mortgage terms which entitled it to take legal action for 
possession. It asked Mr H to get in touch. The letter said if Mr H didnt agree an arrangement 
with the housing association it would instruct a field agent to visit. Mr H received this letter.
Kent Reliance instructed solicitors to start legal action in July 2019. It says its solicitors wrote 
to Mr H at the security address. It provided a copy of the solicitors possession instructions 
which show Mr Hs correspondence address as the security address. Mr H says he didnt 
receive the solicitors letters.
In September 2019 Mr H told Kent Reliance hed moved house and gave it his new address 
(address C). Kent Reliance didnt give its solicitors address C until April 2020.
Mr H agreed an arrangement with the housing association to pay the rent arrears in April 
2020. Mr H says hed made additional payments prior to this. While I dont have a full set of 
statements, the ones I have show Mr H did make payments, although not enough to reduce 
the arrears.
Mr H contacted Kent Reliance in April 2020 saying hed been unaware of the legal action. He 
says he only became aware when he contacted Kent Reliance about another matter. He 
said it was unfair to apply legal fees to his account.
Kent Reliance said the balance in a rate change letter sent to Mr H was wrong as it didnt 
include legal fees. It corrected the error and offered £50 compensation. It didnt agree to 
remove legal fees (about £2,600) from Mr Hs account.
Did Kent Reliance make an error?
Mr H says he received the June 2019 letter, but this didnt say Kent Reliance would take 
legal action. He says he didnt receive any further letters about legal action from Kent 
Reliance or its solicitors, despite having a Royal Mail redirection in place (to redirect post 
from address B to address C). I think this is because the solicitors wrote to the security 
address. Mr H had told Kent Reliance in May 2018 that he didnt live at the security address 
and provided his new address (address B). Indeed, Kent Reliance wrote to Mr H at 
address B in June 2019.
I think Kent Reliance made an error. It didnt give its solicitors Mr Hs correspondence 
address (address B). The solicitors sent letters to the security address, and Mr H didnt 
receive them. Kent Reliance didnt give its solicitors Mr Hs latest address (address C) until 
April 2020, despite Mr H updating his address with Kent Reliance in late 2019. As a result of 
Kent Reliances error, Mr H wasnt aware it had started legal action for possession until April 
2020.
What was the effect of Kent Reliances error?
Kent Reliance says it doesnt make a difference that Mr H didnt receive letters from its 
solicitors. It says Mr H was aware of the rent arrears and did nothing about them  either by 
choice or because his circumstance meant he was unable to pay the arrears.
Mr H was aware of the rent arrears. Hed been in rent arrears for some time, and he said he 
was making additional payments to reduce the arrears. While Mr H knew he had rent 
arrears, I dont think he expected Kent Reliance to take action for possession. The letter 
Mr H received didnt say it would start legal action, and he didnt receive letters from Kent 
Reliances solicitors.Mr Hs circumstances are difficult. The security property is occupied by Mr Hs ex-partner 
and a member of her family. Mr H is taking action to regain access to the property and have 
them removed. This has been delayed due to restrictions and guidelines issued as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the meantime, Mr H remains responsible for paying the 
mortgage and rent to the housing association. In late 2018 Mr H asked to switch to interest 
only payments for a period, due to financial difficulties. Mr H hasnt said if he continues to 
have financial difficulties.
While Mr H didnt have an agreement in place with the housing association, he made some 
payments to his account with them. And when he became aware that Kent Reliance was 
taking legal action he reached an agreement with the housing association. Mr H says he 
maintained mortgage payments. I think its likely hed have tried to reach agreement with the 
housing association sooner if hed known he needed to do this to avoid Kent Reliance taking 
legal action for possession of his property.
Was it fair for Kent Reliance to instruct solicitors and start legal action for possession?
Based on the available evidence, the only reason Kent Reliance started legal action in 2019 
was due to the rent arrears and the risk of the housing association taking possession of the 
security property. Mr H has had rent arrears since 2016, and the housing association served 
notice of seeking possession previously. Its reasonable for Kent Reliance to take action 
necessary to protect its security, and I think it was reasonable for it to instruct solicitors in 
2019.
However, the housing associations letters say it would take possession action if an 
agreement wasnt reached to pay the arrears. Had Kent Reliance given its solicitors Mr Hs 
correct address hed have known it was taking legal action. And I think hed have tried to put 
an agreement in place with the housing association so that legal action and the related costs 
would be avoided.
By not sending letters to the correct address Kent Reliance didnt give Mr H an opportunity to 
respond and avoid legal action and costs  the main reason for sending these letters. In the 
circumstances I dont think its fair for Kent Reliance to apply the legal fees and related costs 
to Mr Hs account. It should remove legal fees and costs (and related interest) applied 
between 1 July 2019 and 21 July 2020 (the date of its final response letter) from Mr Hs 
account.
I think Kent Reliances offer of £50 for the error in its rate change letter is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mr H reached an agreement with the housing association for payment of the rent arrears in 
April 2020. I think this means Kent Reliances security is no longer at risk. Legal action will 
have been on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and Mr Hs complaint being with this 
service. I asked Kent Reliance to confirm its no longer taking action for possession at this 
time. Unfortunately, it didnt respond. Id remind Kent Reliance of its duty to treat Mr H fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent 
Reliance) to:
remove legal fees and costs (and related interest) applied to Mr Hs account between 1 
July 2019 and 21 July 2020; and
pay £50 to Mr H. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman