DRN-3588957
The complaint
Mr N complains about delays BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited caused while dealing with 
the transfer of his cash ISA, causing him financial loss.
What happened
Mr N held a cash ISA with BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited (BNYM). He wrote to them 
on 2 September 2021 asking for a transfer of funds to purchase Tesla shares. This wasnt an 
option available to UK residents, so they were unable to process this. He requested they 
transfer his funds to another provider who Ill refer to as Company A. 
BNYM confirmed a cheque for cleared funds was sent to Company A and the cheque had 
been cashed on 14 September 2021. He says he attempted to purchase 37 shares in Tesla 
later the same day, but the purchase attempt failed due to insufficient funds - despite 
Company A having cashed his payment.
On 29 September 2021, Company A said they hadnt received payment from BNYM, they 
requested a new cheque to be issued on 4 October 2021. He raised his concerns with both 
companies multiple times, with neither business able to confirm the whereabouts of his 
funds. Company A did locate the funds, they say it had been transferred to another client 
based on the name and reference number BNYM had provided them and held them 
responsible for the error. On 13 October 2021, Company A confirmed that the funds had 
been allocated to his account and the transfer had been completed. 
Mr N made a formal complaint to BNYM, he says the delay in completing the transfer meant 
he lost the opportunity to purchase shares in Tesla and was left out of pocket as a result.  To 
put things right, he would like to be paid the amount he would have made if hed been able 
to purchase the shares in Tesla on the day he initially tried on 20 September 2021. He says 
this amounts to $2997. In addition, he would also like compensation for the 24 days of 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered because of their errors and weeks of chasing both 
businesses to locate his missing funds.
BNYM responded to Mr Ns complaint saying they requested the cheque payment to 
Company A on 9 September 2021 and this was sent on 14 September 2021. They confirmed 
numerous communications between Mr N and Company A had taken place regarding this. 
They issued a final response letter on 28 October 2021 accepting theyd made an error with 
the reference number theyd quoted on the cheque payment to Company A which resulted in 
the delay to the transfer being completed. They paid Mr N £100 compensation in recognition 
of this. They also apologised for the delay in identifying the issue and resolving it. Mr N didnt 
feel this adequately resolved his complaint because he had lost out financially as a result of 
the delay, so he asked us to consider this.
 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and said BNYM had accepted 
responsibility for the issues caused and so concentrated on whether the amount of 
compensation awarded was reasonable. She concluded that the £100 theyd paid her was 
fair and didnt recommend BNYM had to make any further compensation award in relation to 
this complaint.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
At the Financial Ombudsman Service, our role is to consider complaints brought to us, and 
based on the evidence provided, establish whether the business complained of have been 
fair and reasonable in their actions. We dont tell a business how it should operate and that 
is a matter for the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority to consider. Our role is not to 
punish a business, but to resolve the dispute with a view to put a consumer back in the 
position theyd have been in if the error had not happened. 
In their service complaint response on 28 October 2021, BNYM accepted theyd made a 
mistake with the reference theyd provided Company A which caused the issues with 
allocation as well as the delays in locating the funds. So, I have focused my investigation on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable compensation. In doing so, I need to establish 
what losses Mr N has suffered because of the errors made by BNYM and whether the level 
of distress and inconvenience payment to him was reasonable for the level of impact hes 
suffered.  
Looking at what Mr N intended to do before any error was made, I have seen that Mr N 
contacted BNYM to say he wanted to invest in Tesla but was told this wasnt available to 
him. He was advised to transfer to Company A to do this and this is what triggered the 
transfer of funds to them. I can see that the cheque was sent to them on 14 September 2021 
and the funds would have been available to him by two days later, but because of BNYMs 
errors, the funds were not available until 13 October 2021.
Based on his initial requests to invest in Tesla and his request for compensation, it is a fair 
assessment to make that he intended to invest his funds in Tesla. However, looking at his 
trading history, this is not what he went ahead to do. His initial investment in Tesla was not 
made until 26 October 2021, thirteen days after the funds became available and he didnt 
proceed to invest all of it in Tesla. His investment was staggered between 26 October to 12 
November 2021. 
The difficulty with this is, the compensation Mr N claims and the calculation of it, is based on 
the statement that he would have purchased the full 37 shares on that date. There is also no 
way of knowing when he would have sold these positions and, if the result at the end would 
have been a profit, how much this would be. Based on this, its not possible to say with 
certainty that he would have invested all his funds in Tesla and on 20 September 2021 itself. 
Mr N has more recently explained that he would buy and sell shares based on market 
conditions and relevant information relating to the macro and share specific trends. Whilst I 
accept his intentions regarding purchase of Tesla shares was clear at the time, his 
explanation further enhances the point that there really was no way to ascertain how many 
shares he would have invested in straight away, how long he would have continued to hold 
those shares, or what, if any actual profit would have been achieved. As Ive mentioned 
above, we have already seen evidence of staggered investment even after the funds were made available. If I am unable to say with any certainty what he would have done, or would 
have gained financially, then I am unable to agree the compensation based on this.
Looking at Mr Ns complaint that BNYM failed to follow strict protocols for investing the 
funds. Whilst I take on board the strength of his feelings in this situation, I cant see that 
there was any detriment to him directly beyond what Ive discussed above. I have previously 
mentioned, it is not within our remit to tell a business how to operate and this is the role of 
the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. If he continues to have concerns around this, 
he should pursue this element of his complaint with them. 
It is clear from Mr Ns submissions and the evidence hes provided; he has been put in a 
difficult situation which has caused him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. Looking 
at whats happened, Mr N has spent considerable time going back and forth between both 
companies trying to establish where his money had gone. I appreciate the whole experience 
would have been particularly stressful for him especially as its a considerable sum of money 
that was missing. Hes had to chase both businesses for a few weeks and wasnt making 
any progress with either company. BNYM have already paid him £100 in recognition of these 
issues which I think is fair and reasonably given the circumstances Ive mentioned above. 
So, I know he will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant fairly say that BNYM should 
do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against BNY Mellon Fund 
Managers Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman