DRN-3785189
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited failed to provide 
solicitors acting on their behalf with all of the relevant documents to recover the outlay of 
their costs under a claim against her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2020 Miss W was involved in an incident with another car and she made a claim for 
vehicle damage to her insurer Markerstudy. 
The other driver (the third party) disputed fault for the incident. In order to settle the claim, 
the matter proceeded to a court hearing where Markerstudy on behalf of Miss W was 
represented by solicitors. 
In February 2022 liability was settled in Miss Ws favour on a 75%/25 split. The Judge didnt 
award any costs for the vehicle damage to Miss Ws car and provided their comments as to 
why. 
In March 2022 Miss W complained to Markerstudy. She said it had failed to provide key 
documents to support her claim to the solicitors. She said it didnt provide evidence of her 
car damage or the evidence Miss W had provided. 
Miss W said she had also complained to the solicitors. This is separate to this complaint 
against Markerstudy. 
In May 2022 Markerstudy didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. It said it provided the solicitors 
with all of the relevant documents for the court hearing. 
Miss W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator found 
Markerstudy had provided the solicitors with the relevant documents in good time before the 
court hearing. 
Miss W didnt agree. She says Markerstudy didnt answer her questions. She says the 
solicitors didnt have the relevant documents for the court hearing. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy has provided a copy of letters dated 3 November 2020 and 10 November 2020 
to the solicitors attaching Miss Ws statement, sketch, pictures of the scene of the incident, 
engineer report of the damage and images of her car and the damage. 
Markerstudy emailed the solicitors after the court hearing to question why the Judge hadnt 
awarded any costs for vehicle damage - and asked if the relevant documents were within the 
court bundle. Markerstudys notes show the solicitor responded to it saying:
All the documentation you provided was included in the Court bundle. The Judge did 
not consider your documentation sufficient. I was also surprised by the Judges 
commentsas with all Trials we can never predict how a Judge will find on the day.
The solicitors acting on behalf of Markerstudy are a separate business and so any complaint 
about them isnt something I can comment on in my decision about Markerstudy. 
Miss W says Markerstudy failed to answer her questions about what the 75%/25% split 
outcome means for her, the impact on her No Claims Bonus and whether the TPI raised a 
claim against her policy. 
I cant see that these were questions Miss W raised under the complaint she made in March 
2022, which Markerstudy responded to in May 2022. So I cant consider these issues in my 
decision. Miss W can raise a new complaint against Markerstudy if shes unhappy with the 
response or lack of response to any additional concerns. 
I understand Miss W is very disappointed with the outcome of the court hearing - and is of 
the view that Markerstudys failure to provide relevant documents to the solicitor played a 
part in the outcome. My role is to look at whether Markerstudy as the insurer acted 
reasonably. From the information provided, Im satisfied Markerstudy sent the solicitors all of 
the relevant information Miss W has mentioned in good time. So I think it acted fairly. This 
means Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman