DRN-4503820
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) handled a claim under her 
pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to West Bay include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs C had a pet insurance policy with West Bay, covering her dog, which she took out in 
February 2023. Later that month, the dog needed surgery on its left leg. Mrs C subsequently 
made a claim for the cost of the surgery (£4,482.80). West Bay took some eight weeks to 
assess the claim, before telling Mrs C they wouldnt accept it as the clinical history of the dog 
indicated it had previously had the same surgery on its right leg. West Bay said this meant 
the condition requiring surgery in February 2023 was pre-existing. The policy didnt cover 
pre-existing conditions.
Mrs C challenged the decline of her claim, saying that when the dog had surgery on its right 
leg in 2018, the left leg was examined and found to be normal. So, Mrs C said this showed 
there wasnt a pre-existing condition. Shed declared the previous surgery when she took out 
her policy, which was for lifetime cover. She thought the policy would cover the surgery in 
2023, so decline of the claim meant shed been mis-sold the policy. She was also unhappy 
at how long West Bay took to assess her claim (she thought it would be three to four weeks, 
rather than the eight weeks taken).
West Bay considered Mrs Cs challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their final 
response they said when Mrs C took out the policy, the Statement of Fact document issued 
included reference to medical conditions or diseases that showed clinical signs prior to, or 
within the first 14 days from policy inception not being covered. West Bay also referred to the 
policy terms about pre-existing conditions and bilateral illnesses. West Bay referred to the 
call when she first contacted them to tell them about the dogs condition, saying Mrs C was 
told the claim would need to be assessed and they couldnt confirm whether it would be 
accepted until the assessment was complete. So, Mrs C hadnt been told the condition 
would be covered and the claim accepted. West Bay confirmed they acted correctly to 
decline the claim.
On the time taken to assess the claim, West Bay said they received it for treatment carried 
out in April 2023, which they recorded at the start of May 2023. They emailed Mrs C to 
indicate their aim to assess claims within four weeks. However, due to a high volume of 
claims received, there was a delay in processing the claim, and Mrs C was informed of the 
outcome at the end of June 2023. Because it had taken longer to assess than their target, 
West Bay apologised and awarded £40 compensation.
On the policy being mis-sold, West Bay said they hadnt made any errors. The policy was 
taken out online and they didnt have any influence with the quote process. Once the policy 
was purchased, a copy of the policy documents was issued to Mrs C, detailing information 
on the required level of cover and any exclusions. It was Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure the 
policy documents were read and understood. West Bay said Mrs Cs claim was assessed in 
line with the policy terms, based on the information provided to them, and the outcome 
(decline of the claim) remained unchanged.
Mrs C then complained to this Service, disputing West Bays decline of her claim on the 
basis of a pre-existing (and bilateral) condition. She thought the policy would have covered 
the need for surgery, so shed been mis-sold the policy. She was also unhappy at how long it 
took for the claim to be assessed.
Our investigator initially upheld Mrs Cs complaint, concluding West Bay hadnt acted fairly in 
declining her claim. She didnt think the surgery in April 2023 was a continuation of an 
existing condition (the earlier surgery) so West Bay hadnt acted fairly to apply the exclusion 
for a pre-existing (bilateral) condition. She thought West Bay should settle Mrs Cs claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
West Bay disagreed with the investigators initial view, saying the clinical history of the dog 
(in 2019) indicated cruciate ligament surgery in October 2018, and cruciate ligament surgery 
on a different leg in April 2023. So, the condition was the same (albeit in different legs) and 
first occurred before policy inception. So, theyd fairly applied the exclusion for a pre-existing 
(bilateral) condition. 
Our investigator considered the further points and evidence from West Bay and issued a 
second view, concluding West Bay had acted fairly in treating the surgery in April 2023 as a 
continuation of the same condition previously treated in 2018. So, West Bay acted fairly in 
declining Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators revised conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, she said West Bay had the clinical history of her dog at 
the time she took out her policy, so she expected a lifetime policy to cover the cost of the 
surgery in April 2023  so the policy had been mis-sold to her. She also disagreed that her 
dog had a pre-existing condition, or that it was fair to treat the two incidences of cruciate 
ligament treatment as a bilateral illness given the time between the two treatments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether West Bay have acted fairly towards Mrs C. 
The three key issues in Mrs Cs complaint are, firstly, the decline of her claim. West Bay say 
the condition was pre-existing (and bilateral) so not covered. Mrs C disagrees. The second 
issue is the time taken to assess the claim. Mrs C expected it to take up to four weeks, 
whereas it took eight weeks. West Bay acknowledge it took longer to assess than their target 
and have apologised and awarded £40 compensation. The third issue is whether Mrs C was 
mis-sold the policy. Mrs C says the policy was mis-sold, as she declared the condition when 
taking out the policy and she expected the need for surgery on the dogs leg to be covered. 
West Bay say Mrs C was aware of the policy terms relating to pre-existing and bilateral 
conditions when issued with the policy documents when taking out the policy.
On the first issue, Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and 
conditions of the policy together with the supporting information and evidence, including the 
clinical history of Mrs Cs dog. Starting with the terms and conditions of the policy, West Bay 
refer to the following in their final response, in respect of pre-existing conditions:Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from another injury or illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed or that has been identified or investigated by a 
vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance.
West Bay also refer to the Statement of Fact and the following affirmation by Mrs C:
You accept and understand that medical conditions or diseases that show clinical 
signs prior to or within the first 14 days from your policy inception date will not be 
covered.
West Bay also set out the following definition of bilateral illnesses within the General 
conditions applicable to all policy sections part of the policy:
For illnesses that can have multiple sites or bilateral illnesses such as eyes, ears, or 
legs (my emphasis) we shall treat all occurrences of an illness as the same illness 
and charge only one fixed excess per period of insuranceIf the condition diagnosed 
by your veterinary surgeon is the same as a previous condition, they will be treated 
as the same condition even if the problem is a different part of your pets body.
For example, if your pet has a growth on the left ear which is subsequently found on 
the right ear both will be treated in benefit terms as the one condition, benefit limits 
and the start date for the condition will be from the date that the left ear growth was 
found irrespective of the time difference between diagnoses. We will always treat the 
same diagnosis as one condition irrespective of when or where in your pets body the 
symptoms are found even where the condition is diagnosed in different legs (my 
emphasis) and deciding the start date for the condition it will be the date that the first 
symptom was noted or the first date of treatment (whichever is earlier).
So, the key in this case is whether the clinical history of the dog indicates the same condition 
treated in 2018 and 2023, albeit on different legs. West Bay refer to clinical notes in 2019 
indicating cruciate ligament treatment in 2018. Looking at the clinical notes, theres an entry 
in March 12019 that states:
Owner aware that risk of other cruciate going
This indicates the treatment of the right leg was cruciate ligament-related. And as theres no 
dispute the surgery on the left leg in April 2023 was on a cruciate ligament, Ive concluded 
the same diagnosis (condition) applies to both treatments. And looking at the above policy 
terms and conditions, particularly the references to legs that Ive emphasised, then this 
would reasonably be held to be a bilateral illness. The wording also makes it clear the time 
difference between the two treatments (October 2018 and April 2023) isnt relevant  the 
start date for the condition is the date the first symptom was noted or the first treatment date. 
Which would be either October 2018 or the clinical note in March 2019. Both of which were 
before the policy inception in February 2023. 
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im persuaded 
West Bay have shown enough to apply the exclusions for a pre-existing condition and 
bilateral illness in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded West Bay acted fairly in 
line with the policy terms and conditions to apply the exclusions to decline Mrs Cs claim.
The second issue in Mrs Cs complaint is the time taken to assess the claim. Mrs C says she 
expected the claim to be assessed in three to four weeks  but it took eight weeks. West Bay 
acknowledge they didnt meet their target time, citing the volume of claims they were dealing 
with at the time. I think there would have been a loss of expectation on Mrs Cs part, irrespective of the outcome of the claim. West Bay have apologised and paid Mrs C £40 in 
recognition of taking longer to assess the claim than Mrs C was led to believe. Looking at the 
circumstances of the case, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation.
The third issue is whether the policy was mis-sold to Mrs C, as she expected a lifetime policy 
to cover the surgery on the dogs left leg. West Bay say Mrs C was aware of the policy terms 
relating to pre-existing and bilateral conditions when issued with the policy documents when 
taking out the policy.
Looking at the policy terms and conditions set out above, in addition to my conclusion that 
West Bay fairly applied the exclusions for pre-existing condition and bilateral illness, then I 
dont agree the policy was mis-sold. The policy terms clearly indicate pre-existing conditions 
arent covered  this is also a common feature of pet insurance policies more generally. As 
are bilateral conditions (illnesses). The fact Mrs C doesnt think her dog had a pre-existing 
condition or that it was fair to apply the bilateral illness term to decline the claim doesnt 
mean the policy was mis-sold. Both terms are clearly set out in the policy documents. 
And this isnt affected by Mrs C saying the clinical history of her dog was known to West Bay 
when she took out the policy. I say that because any claim made under the policy would be 
assessed against the policy terms and conditions, including those for pre-existing conditions 
and bilateral illness. And I think West Bay have done so fairly as Ive concluded for the 
reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman