DRN-3428275
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise Payments) refuse to refund payment 
transfers she made to a company she believed to be legitimate.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mrs L made three payments via Wise Payments to a company I will refer to as Company R 
in this decision.  She says at the time she believed Company R were a legitimate 
investments trading complaint.  Mrs L explains she then lost all her money and discovered 
Company R had scammed her.  She then asked our Service to raise this matter with Wise 
Payments on her behalf, which she subsequently referred to our Service as a complaint.
The three payment transfers concerned are as follows: 200,000 SEK to EUR on 4 and 11 
March 2020 respectively; and 50,000 SEK to EUR on 28 April 2020.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.
Mrs L did not accept the investigators findings.  As an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I do not consider that Wise Payments ought to have intervened regarding the payment 
transfers concerned.  That is, I am not satisfied Wise Payments ought to have been alerted 
to the payment transfers, delayed them and asked questions to get to the bottom of what 
was going on.  I say this because I am not satisfied that the payment transfers were so 
unusual or out of character to be cause for concerned.
I acknowledge Mrs Ls point about Wise Payments owing her a duty of care.  However, the 
obligations on money remittance providers (such as Wise Payments) to intervene to protect 
customers from financial harm  needs to be looked at in the round.  Whilst it is fair to say 
money remittance providers owe their customers a basic duty of care  this must be weighed 
against the fact that money remittance providers commonly handle the conversation/transfer 
of very significant sums of money on a daily basis. 
Within this context, I am not persuaded that Mrs Ls payment transfers were significantly 
high or unusual in pattern  even when bearing in mind the FCAs Principles for Business 
and BCOBS 2 being applied to businesses such as Wise Payments since 1 August 2019.
So, taking all the points above together  I am not satisfied that Wise Payments has done 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman