DRN-2878522
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed a new account he applied for and 
didnt pay him the incentive that was on offer at the time. Mr H is also says he was given 
inaccurate information about his credit report.
What happened
Around November 2019, Mr H applied for a Club Lloyds account and wanted to take up 
Lloyds offer of £125 for switching to this account. The account was opened and Mr H was 
issued with the account details and a debit card. Shortly after, Lloyds decided to close the 
account immediately and told Mr H that he wouldnt be paid the £125 that was on offer.
Mr H complained to the bank. Lloyds responded saying it had decided to close Mr Hs 
account after completing additional checks. Lloyds said that the offer expired a few days 
before Mr H contacted the bank to arrange the switch so it wouldnt be paying him the £125. 
Mr H also complained that he was incorrectly told the credit search related to his application 
would appear on his credit report - but he couldnt see the search on his report. The bank 
confirmed it could take up to eight weeks for the update to show on Mr Hs report.
Remaining unhappy, Mr H asked this service to get involved and said he wants £265 
compensation. Our investigator concluded that Lloyds acted fairly when it closed Mr Hs 
account and when it declined to pay him the £125 that was on offer. The investigator added 
that the information Lloyds gave about Mr Hs credit report was accurate.
Mr H didnt agree and sent us copies of the credit search that now appears on his report. 
Mr H believes that the bank decided to close his account because of his complaint, but the 
investigator felt there was no indication that this was the case.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more in relation to this complaint. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
Account closure
Lloyds terms and conditions set out the circumstances that allow it to close Mr Hs account 
without notice. The bank says it carried out checks as part of the account application 
process and decided to close the account as a result. I note Mr Hs comments, that by the 
time this decision was made the bank had already provided him with account details and a 
debit card. 
Lloyds says it did so provisionally and decided to close the account a few days after it was 
opened after conducting additional checks. Based on the information Lloyds has provided, 
Im of the view that the bank acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions when it 
made this decision.
Mr H believes the account was closed because he complained. But the information Ive seen 
doesnt suggest this was the case. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do something differently 
because of this.
£125 account switch offer
As our investigator pointed out, its difficult to determine exactly what information Mr H was 
given about this offer when he applied for the account. Lloyds said the offer was only 
available until a certain date and Mr H needed to arrange his account switch before the offer 
expired  which the bank says he didnt. 
I can see that Mr Hs initial complaint submission to this service includes a document that 
provides some detail about the offer that was available around the time he applied for the 
account. Having looked through the details, it seems to me that the offer ended on 
12 November 2019 (which is when Lloyds also says it ended) and that the payment of the 
offer was dependent on Mr H switching to the Club Lloyds account.
Lloyds and Mr H both say that he called the bank to arrange the switch on 14 November  
which is a few days after the offer expired. Moreover, Lloyds decided to close the account by 
this point  which, as I explained above, I think it did so fairly. So I dont think the bank acted 
unfairly when it decided to decline paying the £125 that was on offer.
Credit report update
Mr H recently submitted details from his credit report, which shows that the search related to 
his new account application appears on his report. Its reassuring to see that Mr Hs report 
has since updated, as I can see he was concerned that the search hadnt appeared around 
the time he first complained to Lloyds.
The bank wasnt wrong in the information it provided Mr H at the time. Credit reports can 
take several weeks to update with new information. And given the search has since 
appeared on his report, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more in relation to this point. 
In summary, Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions when it 
decided to close Mr Hs Club Lloyds account. I know Mr H was disappointed that he couldnt 
receive the £125 that was on offer for switching to this account, but it seems Mr H tried to 
arrange the switch after the offer expired - so Lloyds didnt have to honour it. Mr Hs credit 
report appears to have been updated with the search related to this application. Im aware 
this didnt happen straight away, but Lloyds was accurate when it explained that it may take 
some time before the search actually appears on Mr Hs report
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 Abdul Ali
Ombudsman