DRN-2560281
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy with the service that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) provided when he 
wanted to re-invest his fixed term deposit for a further term at the rate it had quoted.  
What happened
 Mr B had a fixed term deposit account with Metro Bank holding £82,000 which matured in 
April 2020. Ahead of this, he instructed them to re-invest it for a further 18 months, together 
with an additional £3000, at the prevailing rate of 1.5% AER, but this didnt happen. 
Mr B complained to Metro Bank and then, as he feared the matter wasnt going to be 
resolved to his satisfaction, took his money out and deposited it elsewhere in a 90-day notice 
account. Metro Bank credited Mr Bs account with £75 in respect of the service failings hed 
encountered.
Metro Bank then offered Mr B a fixed term deposit account at 1.50% AER in June 2020, but 
at this time Mr B was only able to access £40,000, so he deposited that amount. 
Metro B formally responded to Mr Bs complaint in late June 2020 and offered a further £100 
compensation. This was not acceptable to Mr B.
In September 2020, Mr B was able to access the funds that hed moved and wanted Metro 
Bank to let him re-invest £45,000 at the rate that had been available in June. Metro Bank 
was not willing to do this.
Mr B wanted Metro Bank to compensate him for the interest lost because he couldnt invest 
the full £85,000 into a new deposit account at a rate of 1.5% AER. He brought his case to 
our service.
During our investigation, Metro Bank offered a further £100, bringing the total compensation 
offered to £275 for the inconvenience suffered by Mr B. Our investigator thought that Metro 
was right to offer this compensation and didnt think Metro Bank needed to offer any more. 
Metro had been willing to offer the original rate when it looked into Mr Bs complaint, but our 
investigator didnt think it was obliged to offer this several months later, when Mr B was in a 
position to re-invest. 
Mr B was not happy with this and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the case, so it has 
come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had a fixed term deposit account with Metro Bank holding £82,000. It was due to 
mature on April 15 2020. Mr B called Metro Bank prior to the maturity date and asked them 
to reinvest it into a new fixed term deposit at an interest rate of 1.5% AER and was told this 
was with the savings team to be actioned. He also wanted to top-up the amount reinvested 
from £82,000 to £85,000. Mr B made a number of calls to Metro Bank to confirm that this 
was possible and was told that it was.  Metro Bank didnt act on Mr Bs instruction, and when 
he spoke to it on April 20 2020, he was told hed get a rate of 1.25% rather than the 1.5% 
AER hed been told previously, as rates had dropped by this time.
Looking at all the notes and call recordings provided, I am satisfied that Metro Bank ought to 
have acted on Mr Bs request to re-invest the £82,000 and top this amount up to £85,000. I 
can understand why he was frustrated by what happened as hed given clear instructions 
about what he wanted to do and was assured this would happen.
When Mr B was told the fixed term deposit rate would be 1.25% AER, Mr B asked to speak a 
manager. The manager said that a complaint was being logged that day and a response 
would be provided with the timescales set out by the regulator. Mr B asked that his funds be 
invested at the rate previously agreed or he would take his money out. The manager was 
unable to do this at the time, so Mr B lodged a complaint with Metro Bank. Metro Bank 
acknowledged that Mr B had cause for complaint and credited his account with £75 while 
investigating his complaint. 
Mr B withdrew the £82,000 immediately and put it into a 90-day notice account. Having 
listened to the call recordings, I can understand Mr Bs frustration at this point, but choosing 
to  re-invest his funds in this way meant that he would not be able to access the funds when 
Metro Bank offered to re-invest them to resolve his complaint, The manager at Metro Bank 
had encouraged Mr B to complain formally to get redress, so I think Mr B acted prematurely 
in tying up his funds immediately.                 
During Metro Banks investigation of his complaint, Mr B proposed that Metro Bank provide 
him with the following options:
- Open the fixed term deposit account with a rate of 1.50% but allow an extended 100 
day window in order for him to retrieve his funds or;
- Open the fixed term deposit account with a rate of 1.50% in September when the 
funds would be released from his 3-month notice account
Metro Bank considered Mr Bs request but felt unable to offer either of these extended 
options. I can understand why it was not willing to offer this. Fixed term deposits operate on 
the basis of a fixed amount deposited for a term at a rate in line with prevailing interest rates, 
but Mr Bs proposals were future based with no certainty as to market rates later in the year. 
As such, I think it was reasonable of Metro Bank to reject these proposals.     
Mr B was able to raise £40,000 from elsewhere and in early June Metro Bank agreed to 
allow him to invest this in a fixed term deposit at the original 1.5% AER over 18 months, as a 
special case, as the prevailing was 1.25%. Mr B had hoped to be able to access additional 
funds at this time, and Metro Bank would have been willing to add these to the account, but 
in the event, Mr B was unable to access any further funds.  I think Metro Bank had acted 
fairly here by offering Mr B a deposit at the rate originally agreed and had taken reasonable 
steps to honour Mr Bs original request. As Mr B had put the funds hed withdrawn out of 
reach at this time, Metro Bank was not able to honour his request in full, but I cant fairly hold 
Metro Bank responsible for this as it was the result of what Mr B had done.     
Metro Bank acknowledged that there were failings on its part that resulted in the fixed term 
deposit account not being set up as requested and offered Mr B a further £100 
compensation, which he didnt accept. 
In early September 2020, Mr B got back in touch with Metro Bank about investing some of the £85,000 hed invested elsewhere, as there would no longer be a charge for withdrawal. 
He asked Metro bank to invest £45,000 in his existing fixed term deposit account so it would 
benefit from 1.5% AER or open a new fixed term deposit account with the balance of his 
existing fixed term deposit and the additional £45,000, using the rate of 1.5% AER.
Metro Bank felt unable to honour either request and as it had already offered a fair resolution 
in June 2020, I dont think it acted unfairly here. If Mr B wanted to, he couldve opened a 
fixed term deposit account with the rate Metro Bank were offering at that time which was 
0.85% AER, but he didnt wish to do so. 
Metro Bank has increased its original offer of compensation for the inconvenience suffered 
by Mr B from £100 to £200. Mr B still feels unable to accept this as he believes he should be 
compensated for the difference in interest he would have earned on the additional £45,000 
had it been invested at 1.5% AER over 18 months versus the 0.85% AER rate of interest he 
was offered by Metro Bank in September 2020.
Putting things right
I do understand why Mr B is unhappy about what has happened and think Metro Bank is 
right to offer compensation, but I cant agree that it should offer what hes asking for. 
In terms of the inconvenience and frustration Mr B experienced in respect of Metro Banks 
failings, Metro Bank has paid £75 already and is offering a further £200, which I think taking 
everything into account, is fair and reasonable.
With regard to the loss of interest claimed, Metro Bank offered Mr B a fixed term deposit 
account at 1.5% AER in June 2020. Mr B was unable to take full advantage of this offer 
because he couldnt access his funds, but as this wasnt Metro Banks fault, and it had done 
what it reasonably could to put things right, I cant fairly say that Metro Bank needs to do any 
more.
The offer of £200 in addition to the £75 paid, is still available to Mr B should he feel able to 
accept it.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs compliant.
I require Metro Bank to pay a further £200 to Mr B, as it has already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman