DRN-3271212
The complaint
Mr and Ms F complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to 
them irresponsibly and provided an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
Mr and Ms F took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableDate repaid
September
2019£2,000 24 months £164.41 £3,945.84 February 2021
When Mr and Ms F complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold their complaint so they 
brought their complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt 
think Everyday Loans should have provided the loan. Our adjudicator set out directions 
indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed. It said that the loan repayment represented just 4% of 
Mr and Ms Fs joint income, which wasnt a significant amount. Also, its affordability 
assessment showed they had over £700 left each month after repayment of this loan.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having thought about everything, I think our adjudicator reached a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr and Ms F about their income and expenses  including what they 
spent on their credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand their credit 
history and find out about their existing credit commitments and it reviewed bank statements 
provided by Mr and Ms F. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr and Ms Fs joint monthly take home pay was around £3,902. 
Everyday Loans allowed for Mr and Ms Fs monthly rent and also took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr and Ms Fs likely spending. In addition, 
it allowed for a buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional 
expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans said Mr and Ms F shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayment on this loan as they should still have had around £789 spare cash left after 
paying for this loan. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr and Ms F had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was contradicted by what it saw in the other information it had gathered. 
Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that despite extensive reliance on credit, 
including unsecured loans from other providers of high cost credit and credit cards, there 
was evidence of daily overdraft fees being incurred. Everyday Loans worked out that 
Mr and Ms Fs creditor repayments cost them around £1,390 each month. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this 
type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar to further lending, I dont 
think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mr and Ms Fs overall financial situation and the likelihood of them being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair 
decision to lend, particularly as it knew that Mr and Ms F intended to use the loan for home 
improvements  so it would be adding to their overall indebtedness.
I think all the indications were that Mr and Ms F werent managing their money well and they 
were already struggling financially. 
Their debt to income ratio suggested they were already over-reliant on credit. 
And to my mind, it shouldve been apparent that Mr and Ms F didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that Everyday Loans calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given that 
Mr and Ms F were struggling to avoid slipping into overdraft despite their accounts being 
boosted by additional lending and some of their monthly day to day spending being put on 
credit cards and mail order accounts. 
All the signs were that their finances were, in reality, under significant stress and their debt 
had become unmanageable. I dont think Everyday Loans was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr and Ms F would be able to make its loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. But, bearing in mind the 
repayment of this loan on top of the debt Everyday Loans saw Mr and Ms F were already 
responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr and Ms F needed to pay a significant 
portion of their income towards credit  by my reckoning, well over a third. And in my 
opinion, as a responsible lender, seeing the level of income Mr and Ms F would be 
committed to paying just to cover their debt, Everyday Loans shouldve realised that 
Mr and Ms F would likely struggle to repay this loan sustainably  especially bearing in mind 
the 24 month loan term.
So thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr and Ms F. So it shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr and Ms F to repay the capital amount that they 
borrowed because they had the benefit of that lending - but they shouldnt repay any more 
than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr and Ms F received as a result of having been 
given the loan. The repayments Mr and Ms F made should be deducted from this 
amount. 
If this results in Mr and Ms F having paid more than they received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Whilst its fair that Mr and Ms Fs credit file is an accurate reflection of their financial 
history, its unfair that they should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan 
that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr and Ms Fs credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr and Ms F a certificate showing how much tax has been 
deducted if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Ms Fs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday 
Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman