DRN-4054764
The complaint
Mr W complains that an error by eToro (UK) Ltd caused a series of currency pair positions to 
be opened with incorrect leverage on his execution-only trading account. 
What happened
The positions in question, of which there were around 40, were opened between 20 and 21 
September 2022. Mr W says that for all of them he selected leverage at the lowest level of 
x1, but later discovered the positions had instead been opened with much higher x30 
leverage. He believes this was caused by a system error on the part of eToro, and it led to 
him incurring significant losses.
He complained to eToro. It reviewed the positions but was satisfied its system had correctly 
registered them and that Mr W had actively chosen x30 leverage. It confirmed that the 
positions had been opened from Mr Ws usual device and IP address and noted that some 
positions had been edited after being opened, at which point all the relevant parameters 
wouldve been visible to Mr W  including the applicable leverage. eToro also pointed out 
that Mr W had previously opened positions with leverage at x30. 
Mr W didnt accept eToros response and referred his complaint to this service, maintaining 
that hed never selected leverage other than x1 on any forex transaction, so the positions in 
question must have been subject to a system error or glitch. 
Our investigator considered the matter, but she also didnt feel the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in brief:
A screen shot of how eToros system presented the trading facility confirmed that 
leverage was a user-selected option for each position opened. 
Mr Ws trading history with eToro, with which hed been active since the beginning of 
2021, recorded that leverage above x1 had frequently been used, indicating he had a 
reasonable understanding of the concept. And there was no suggestion 
Mr W had previously raised issues relating to leverage with eToro. 
Outside of the dates in question, both before and after, Mr Ws trading history 
showed multiple forex positions opened with leverage of x20 and x30.   
Overall, the evidence didnt in her view support a finding that eToro had done 
anything wrong in respect of the positions.
The investigator also considered Mr Ws concerns that eToro had later, in December 2022, 
taken steps to close his account. She felt comments made by Mr W relating to the losses 
and situation with his trading account, which indicated he was suffering health issues and 
gave rise to concerns he might harm himself, were such that it was reasonable for eToro to 
close the account, in line with its terms. The investigator considered it was acting in Mr Ws 
interests, consistent with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view. He felt she had misunderstood the matter and 
had failed to obtain relevant evidence that wouldve shown categorically that the incorrect 
leverage on the positions was a result of a glitch. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W feels very strongly about his complaint. I note the comments hes made 
concerning his well-being and hope very much that hes receiving all the support he needs. 
But in reaching a conclusion on his complaint, I must remain impartial and carefully consider 
the evidence before me. And in doing so, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the 
evidence and wider circumstances.
As noted, the crux of the matter is Mr Ws certainty that when he opened the positions on 20 
and 21 September 2022, he actively selected, for all the positions, leverage of x1. But a 
glitch in eToros system led instead to the incorrect level of leverage, x30, being applied.
eToro has supplied evidence in the form of internal technical logs that show coding 
representing various parameters and values relevant to positions. On all these the leverage 
for the positions is shown as 30. Although eToro initially requested these logs not be shared 
with Mr W, as they contained commercially sensitive information, the investigator was able to 
make a representative, redacted example available to him.
However, Mr W doesnt consider this evidence to be sufficient to show that a glitch didnt 
occur. He feels it couldve been manipulated in some way and considers that more detailed, 
server side logs should be available that would definitively show the customer journey, and 
therefore that he selected x1 leverage rather than x30.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ws comments, but Im satisfied the information provided by 
eToro is sufficient to support a finding that no error was made in the opening of the positions. 
The information its provided is the sort of data, and at a level of detail, that I would generally 
expect to see provided in order to demonstrate the correct operation of its system. 
And in any event, I also think a consideration of the wider circumstances supports a finding 
that the positions, on balance, were more likely than not set up with the correct leverage. 
Mr W maintains he has never selected leverage higher than x1 for currency positions. But 
this isnt supported by his trading history, which show both x20 and x30 leverages frequently 
selected for currency pair positions, in line with eToros maximums for non-major and major 
currencies. With this being the case, I think its difficult to conclude that this one specific 
series of positions was subject to a system error, not when other evidence supports eToros 
system working correctly at the time.   
On the issue of eToro closing Mr Ws account, Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable 
decision in light of the comments hed made. eToro has provided a clear explanation of the 
steps it took in response to Mr W indicating he might be vulnerable, in line with its Vulnerable 
Persons Policy. This appears to have involved an appropriate assessment of the overall 
circumstances and ultimately to have been a decision taken with Mr Ws interests in mind. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman