DRN-3960496
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) blocked two SWIFT payments 
from her account  one that Mrs N attempted to make on 31 January 2022, and another on 
19 April 2022. Mrs N is also unhappy with Citibanks response when she asked about 
closing her accounts.
What happened
Citibank explained that the two payments were blocked by its fraud detection system and 
were subsequently released after itd been able to contact Mrs N to verify that the payments 
were genuine. Citibank also said that its staff had explained how Mrs N could close her 
account. Citibank offered to pay Mrs N £25 as a goodwill gesture.
Unhappy with Citibanks response to the complaint, Mrs N contacted our service. One of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Citibank hadnt done anything 
wrong, and so endorsed the offer made by Citibank.
Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im unable to say that Citibank should do anything more than 
what it has already offered to do in relation to this matter.
I understand that both payments were stopped as part of Citibanks fraud prevention 
processes. 
In relation to the first payment, after the payment was blocked, I understand that Citibank 
sent a text message to Mrs N to say that it will get in contact. But before it did, Mrs N called 
Citibank and, after a fairly long conversation, I understand the payment was subsequently 
released on the same day, once Citibank was assured it was a legitimate transaction.
In the circumstances, I do appreciate that it wouldve been frustrating for Mrs N that the 
payment did not go through when she first attempted it  especially as it was a time critical 
payment. 
However, I cant reasonably say that Citibank was acting unfairly or unreasonably by 
blocking the payment  because as frustrating as it was for Mrs N, it only did so to check that 
the payment was genuine. As a matter of good industry practice, Citibank is obliged to take 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So I cant 
say that Citibank was being unreasonable given that it was essentially acting in Mrs Ns best 
interests and in line with industry guidance, although I appreciate that Mrs N wont 
necessarily have seen it that way at the time.
Mrs N says that shed sent a secure message to Citibank to say that the payment was 
genuine, but Citibank responded saying it needed more information. Again, I can see why 
this wouldve been frustrating for Mrs N, but Citibank was reasonably entitled to ask for more 
information about the payment before it was assured the payment was genuine. I 
understand that the payment was released on the same day that Mrs N spoke to Citibank - 
so I think Citibank resolved the matter within a reasonable period of time.
In terms of the second payment that was blocked pending verification, I understand this was 
attempted on 19 April 2022. I also understand that Citibank did send Mrs N notifications and 
called Mrs N on the same day, but she was unfortunately unable to take the call. The 
payment was then released the following day, once Mrs N had spoken with Citibank. Again, I 
cant say that Citibank was being unreasonable or unfair because it needed to discuss the 
payment with Mrs N to verify that the payment was genuine, before it allowed the payment to 
be made. And I understand the payment was released, as soon as Mrs N was able to 
confirm that it was genuine. So again, as frustrating as it mayve been for Mrs N at the time, I 
think that Citibank dealt with the matter fairly and reasonably.
Finally, Mrs N says that she was given conflicting information about how to close her 
account. But looking at what Citibank has provided, it seems that Mrs N was given correct 
information about how to close her account. Indeed, I can see that Mrs N instructed Citibank 
to close three accounts on 9 May 2022, and these requests were actioned by Citibank on 10 
May 2022, which in my view is a reasonable period of time in which to action Mrs Ns 
requests.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Citibank should pay any more 
compensation to Mrs N than what it has already offered to pay Mrs N, as a gesture of good 
will, in its final response letter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Citibank UK Limited needs to do 
anything more than what it has already agreed to do, to put things right in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman