DRN-3960127
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a loan by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)
What happened
Mr D had two personal loans from Barclays. In June 2022, he visited a branch to ask for a 
further £4,000 / £5,000 to complete a kitchen extension. He was given a new loan of 
£35,000 to replace the two old loans and provide the further funds as follows:
Loan 
numberAmount Closing 
balance Interest rate Total payable Expiry (all 
60 months)
1 Old Loan £20,000 £16,167 5.4% £22,749 May 2026
2 Old Loan £15,000 £14,404 5.5% £17,103 March 2027
3 New Loan £35,000 N/A 7.9% £42,096 June 2027
The two old loans were closed and the new one was drawn. The loan agreement was dated 
14 June 2022.
Mr D complained. He said he shouldve been advised to take a new, smaller loan at a rate of 
6.9%. He said because of taking the new consolidated loan, he would pay £1,346 more 
interest over the five-year period. He said Barclays should agree to reduce the interest rate 
on the new loan to 5.4% to reflect the additional interest, plus compensation for the calls and 
letters he had written. He also said Barclays took too long to respond to his complaint.
In October 2022, Barclays said the new loan had been auto approved. Mr D had been given 
a 14-day cooling off period, so he couldve cancelled the loan if he felt it wasnt right for him. 
They said they couldnt re-open the old loans as theyd been closed. Barclays apologised for 
the length of time taken to investigate his complaint and for that, offered compensation of 
£300.
Mr D rejected the offer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said he couldnt be sure what took place in the branch. But in the pre-contract information, 
the loan details, interest rate and period were set out. It showed the total amount and 
interest payable. It also said that consolidation of borrowing may be at a different rate and 
cost more in the long term. Mr D then took the decision to go ahead, so Barclays acted 
reasonably. He went on to say that the compensation offered of £300 was reasonable.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He said it was he who mentioned 
consolidation loan in the branch  and if he had asked for a smaller loan, it wouldve been 
agreed. He said Barclays advisor shouldve pointed out the increased costs of the 
consolidation loan. He said that as a loyal customer of Barclays with a good credit rating, he 
had been misled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant be sure of what took place in the branch. We asked Barclays for a testimony from 
the member of staff involved, but that person no longer works for the bank. But setting that 
aside  Mr D told us that he mentioned consolidation loan  and so I can see why the 
Barclays advisor provided that.
The crux of this decision does come down to what was provided to Mr D when the loan was 
offered to him. I looked at the pre-contract document sent to him. It included: Important 
information about your Barclayloan: key points you need to understand before you sign for 
your loan 
Please read each of these carefully to make sure the loan is suitable for you and that you 
understand everything - particularly the repayments you will be committing to 
This is information that you need to know before you sign for your Barclayloan and will help 
you decide whether Barclayloan is suitable for you. Please consider this information 
alongside the Agreement and Pre-Contract Credit Information. If you have any questions at 
all, please get in touch by phone or come into your nearest branch. This offer is valid until 
14/07/2022.  
If youre using your loan to consolidate existing borrowing, you will need to consider that it 
may be at a different APR and that by spreading debts over a longer term, you may end up 
paying back more in the long run. 
If you change your mind. After you sign the Agreement, well send you a letter confirming 
that the loan has been opened. From the day after you receive this, you have up to 14 days 
to change your mind and tell us that you want to withdraw by coming into a branch, calling or 
writing to us
The total amount of credit.£35,000 The total amount you will have to pay. £42,096.60 
Annual Percentage Rate of Charge (APR) 7.9%
So  Mr D was advised to read the terms of the loan; and the contract also said 
consolidation loans might cost more over their term. And  importantly  he was given a 14-
day cooling off period to change his mind. But unfortunately, he didnt contact Barclays 
during that period to say he was unhappy or concerned. 
So - Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr D all the necessary information in a clear and not 
misleading way (as they are required to) and for him to make an informed decision.
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about his complaint, but having considered everything, Im 
not asking Barclays to do any more. Barclays offered compensation of £300 for the time they 
took to deal with Mr Ds complaint (I can see that was between 4 July 2022 and 25 October 
2022), and I think thats a reasonable outcome here.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman