DRN-3620394
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied fees and charges to her 
current account after a Debt Relief Order (DRO) was put in place.
What happened
Miss T held an account with Santander with a £500 overdraft facility. In January 2019 Miss T 
applied for a DRO. The effective start date of this was 30 January 2019 and was to last one 
calendar year.
Santander was listed on the DRO creditor list with a sum owing of £491 but at the point the 
DRO came into force the balance on Miss Ts account was £350. Santander received 
notification of the DRO on 7 February 2019 and the account was moved to its DRO 
collections team where the account shouldve been closed, overdraft facility removed and 
account defaulted. 
But as a credit payment of £585.80 came into the account in late February 2019 it was 
mistakenly moved back out of its collections team and Miss T was able to and did, continue 
using the account and overdraft facility incurring charges and interest when the account was 
overdrawn.
Miss T complained to Santander in May 2021 regarding this. On review Santander 
acknowledged its mistake and immediately froze the account and blocked interest and 
charges straight away. It says as Miss T had benefited by its error it was not prepared to 
may any amendments to the account.
Miss T was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
Following bringing her complaint to our service Santander offered to settle the complaint by:
Refunding account fees and arranged overdraft usage fees for the period 30 January 
2019 until 30 January 2020. This amounts to a total of £426.49 including 8% simple 
interest. Santander will also pay £100 compensation.
In line with its terms and conditions Santander will use this settlement amount 
£526.49 to reduce Miss Ts overdraft balance and it will reduce the overdraft limit to 
the value of the remaining overdraft balance.
If Miss T still has a remaining overdraft balance it asks her to get in touch with its 
financial support team within 30 days to arrange a reduction plan to clear the 
remaining balance. During this period it will suspend fees and interest from being 
applied to the account.
Usually when a DRO has been put in place the customers account would be closed 
and overdraft removed meaning the account would be in arrears and likely adverse 
information reported on the customers credit file. Santander has said no adverse 
information will be reported on Miss Ts credit file regarding this.
Our adjudicator looked at all this and thought this was a fair way to settle Miss Ts complaint. 
Miss T did not wish to accept this offer. She would like all fees refunded since the start of the 
DRO, £100 compensation and the initial overdraft debt that was subject to the DRO written 
off and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss T has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss T back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case it is not disputed that Santander has made a mistake by continuing to allow Miss 
T to use the overdraft facility and continuing to apply charges to her account for the use of 
the facility and failed to comply with its obligations under the terms of the DRO. So the 
question I have to answer is what would be a fair way for Santander to put things right?
Santander have told us that would usually would have happened in this situation is that Miss 
Ts account wouldve been closed and the overdraft removed. This wouldve meant Miss Ts 
account wouldve been in arrears for any outstanding overdraft balance and likely adverse 
information reported on her credit file.
Unfortunately, because this didnt happen and Miss T was able to and has continued to use 
her account and overdraft facility during the period the DRO was in place and it is not 
possible to easily say what Miss Ts financial position wouldve been had things happened 
as they should of. But to put things right as outlined above, Santander has offered to refund 
all interest and charges incurred plus interest and work with Miss T to repay the outstanding 
balance of her overdraft, if any  and unusually Santander has agreed not to report adverse 
information on Miss Ts credit file.
So I think what Santander has offered to do to settle the complaint is a practical solution to a 
tricky situation and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances - especially considering Miss 
T has had the benefit of an account and overdraft facility during the period that she shouldnt 
of and no adverse information reported on her credit file. 
So, in summary as I think what Santander has offered to do is a fair way to settle Miss Ts 
complaint and Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Santander UK Plc has offered to do is a fair way 
to settle Miss Ts complaint and I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman