DRN-3091273
The complaint
Miss D complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Miss D applied for a mortgage in May 2003 during a meeting at a branch of Nationwide, and 
took out PPI alongside the mortgage. Miss D said she was advised to take the PPI (although 
Nationwide disagreed on that point), but the cover was unnecessary as she had other 
resources, including an income protection policy, a separate PPI policy and savings. She 
also said it wasnt made clear that she could cancel the policy. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Miss D. The monthly 
cost was £19.95 (although it was free of charge for the first 12 months) and I can see that 
the cost increased over time. The monthly benefit was £400. If Miss D had made a 
successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss D disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. Nationwide asked for some further information from Miss D about her income 
protection policy, and after receiving this, Nationwide responded to my provisional decision, 
saying that it thought the complaint should be partially upheld, in that it offered to pay Miss D 
compensation in respect of the accident and sickness elements of the policy. Miss D did not 
agree with this offer and thought the complaint should be upheld in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide sent in copies of Miss Ds original mortgage application and PPI application 
forms, a mortgage product confirmation document and the mortgage offer, along with 
copies of computer records of Miss Ds mortgage account and PPI policy. It also provided 
copies of various statements and renewal notices. Miss D also provided copies of her 
mortgage illustration and mortgage offer, along with evidence of her other resources at the 
time, and some handwritten notes from the point of sale. She also gave some quite detailed 
recollections of the sequence of events.
Miss D said that two meetings took place  one where she made the mortgage application 
(at which point she didnt make a decision about PPI), and a second with a financial adviser, 
where she was advised to take out the PPI. The dates on which various documents were 
signed, and the content of those documents, are consistent with two meetings having taken 
place. 
The mortgage application form (dated May 2003) includes a section headed Mortgage 
Payment Protection Requirements and underneath this was wording to the effect that Miss 
D was undecided about PPI. This is confirmed in the mortgage product confirmation 
document.
I should say at this point that, based on the documentary evidence Im satisfied that Miss D 
had a choice about taking the PPI  that is, I can see nothing to suggest it was presented as 
being compulsory. 
Miss D agreed that she was undecided about PPI at the first meeting, and said that it was at 
the second meeting that she was advised to take the PPI. Nationwide did not agree that 
advice was given. On balance I think that, in this particular case, the policy was 
recommended for Miss D. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, the PPI application form 
includes the following text  If you are not sure of your eligibility for this insurance cover or 
whether it is suitable for your needs, our staff will be happy to discuss this with you. This 
suggests to me that it was possible for advice to be offered on the suitability of PPI, even if 
this was not routinely done. Secondly, Miss D gave quite detailed recollections of the 
sequence of events, and these are supported by her notes from the time of the sale, and the 
content of the documents. I find Miss Ds account of events plausible and persuasive.
As I consider that Nationwide advised Miss D to take out the policy, it had to make sure the 
policy was suitable for her. I dont think it was.
I cant know how the Nationwide adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Miss D wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Miss D told us she had very good employee benefits, and other resources to fall back on. 
She said that she wouldve been entitled to six months full sick pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer, and a redundancy payment of over two years salary. Miss D 
said she had been a public sector employee for over 23 years (this is also noted on the 
mortgage application form), and I think this estimate of a redundancy payment was 
reasonable. Miss D also said that she had an income protection policy which wouldve paid 
out after six months, with an increase in payments after a further six months, and payments 
continuing until retirement. Miss D provided a copy of the original policy document and her 
notes from the point of sale refer to it. I had no reason to think it wasnt in force in 2003 (and 
Miss D later confirmed this).
Miss D further said she had savings of over £14,000 at the time, and she provided evidence 
of a proportion of this that was in a Nationwide account. As this was a remortgage 
application, this amount would not have been needed for a purchase deposit and Ive seen 
no information to suggest it was earmarked for anything else. And in addition, Ms D sent in 
evidence of a separate mortgage PPI policy. Ive no evidence to suggest it related to any 
other outstanding borrowing, and it looks as though it was taken out with a previous lender 
(but could stand alone). The level of benefit wouldve covered about two thirds of Miss Ds 
payment to Nationwide for 12 months in the event of a successful claim. 
Miss D mentioned that, during the discussion with the adviser, there was a reference to 
deferring payment from the income protection policy to 24 months, and I can see from Miss 
Ds PPI application form that the benefit period requested was 24 months. However, the actual benefit period applied was 12 months, and neither party has been able to confirm why 
that changed after completion of the PPI application. I also have no suggestion that the 
payment from the income protection policy was deferred, if indeed that was possible. 
I said in my provisional decision that, taking everything into account, it seemed to me that if 
Miss D had not been able to work, she wouldve been able to maintain her mortgage 
payments for quite some time  most likely for longer that the PPI wouldve paid out. As a 
result I didnt consider she wouldve seen a particular need for the cover, and I didnt think it 
was a reasonable recommendation to make. 
I also said that, overall, from the evidence I had, I was not satisfied that the PPI was suitable 
for Miss D. And therefore I didnt think she wouldve taken the policy out if she had had been 
properly advised. So I concluded that Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Nationwide then asked for confirmation that Miss Ds income protection policy was in force in 
2003. Miss D sent in policy schedules showing the cover was in place in 2003, and indeed 
afterwards. 
Following this, Nationwide responded to my provisional decision, saying the sale was non-
advised, but on reviewing the cover, it believed that Miss D was over-insured for the accident 
and sickness element only and therefore, as a gesture, it was prepared to offer a refund of 
premiums for this element of the policy, less any refunds and commission already paid. It 
further said that with regard to the unemployment element of the policy, Miss D wasnt 
covered by her income protection policy and therefore it saw no reason why Miss D wouldnt 
have been able to claim on her Nationwide policy, in the event of a valid claim.
We advised Miss D of this offer, but she said she did not agree with Nationwides stance and 
did not wish to accept, and would await my final decision.
I have carefully considered Nationwides response. As it has accepted that Miss D did not 
need the accident and sickness elements of the policy, I do not need to comment further on 
this aspect of the cover.
Nationwide reiterated that it did not advise Miss D to take the PPI, but did not offer any 
further information to support this statement. My reasons for concluding that a 
recommendation was made in this particular case are set out above, and Nationwide has not 
provided any evidence to the contrary, so I have no reason to change my view. 
Whilst it is correct to say that Miss Ds income protection policy would not have paid out in 
the event of her becoming unemployed, she would have had other resources available to 
her. As noted above, Miss D had a separate PPI policy, which did include unemployment 
cover, and on which the level of benefit wouldve covered about two thirds of Miss Ds 
payment to Nationwide. Miss D also said she wouldve been entitled to a redundancy 
payment of over two years salary, and as I noted above I think this is reasonable estimate 
given the nature and length of her employment. 
Nationwide simply said that Miss D wouldve been able to make an unemployment claim on 
its PPI policy. But this does not, in itself, mean that it was suitable for Miss D. As I explained 
above, my view was that, had Miss D not been able to work, she wouldve been able to 
maintain her mortgage payments for quite some time  most likely for longer that the PPI 
wouldve paid out. Having thought about Nationwides arguments, I do not consider they are 
sufficient to change my view that the policy was not suitable for Miss D, and she would not 
have taken the policy out if she had had been properly advised. As a result I have decided to 
uphold this complaint in full. Putting things right
Nationwide should put Miss D in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the PPI. 
The policy has been cancelled, so Nationwide should:
Pay Miss D the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. Nationwide can also deduct the payment it has 
already made to Miss D in respect of commission on the policy.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Nationwide 
Building Society should pay her the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman