DRN-2922809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, In December 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy with Great Lakes for a trip with departure and return dates of
15 December 2019 and 24 December 2019 respectively. Whilst on the trip, on
20 December 2019, Mr M suffered a stroke and had medical treatment overseas. The 
treating hospital declared Mr M fit to fly and on 24 December 2019, Mr and Mrs M 
returned home on their original flight.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim against their policy. Great Lakes settled Mr Ms medical, taxi 
and phone costs and Mrs Ms alternative accommodation costs, incurred when she 
moved near the hospital that was treating Mr M. It subsequently offered to pay Mr Ms 
curtailment costs. Mr and Mrs M want Great Lakes to pay Mrs Ms curtailment costs.
My provisional decision
On 9 July 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that Id 
come to a similar outcome as our investigator but for different reasons. I said: 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say
as follows:
 Section 2 Cutting Short Your Trip & Trip Interruption
Cover applies if you are forced to cut short a trip you have commenced, and return to 
your home country, because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, 
and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover 
(if later): 
Cutting Short Your Trip
What is covered
We will pay up to £500 for Basic cover [] for your non-refundable deposits and 
amounts you have paid (or have contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation 
(including pre-paid excursions up to £300 for Basic cover [] which you do not use 
because of your inability to complete the trip due to:
a)an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion 
or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip. []
The definitions section says:
Cut short/Cutting short  Either:
a) the immediate direct early return from your trip to your home country []
b) being a hospital in-patient outside your home country for a period in excess of 48 
hours.
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
[]
8. We will not pay for any losses which are not directly covered by the Terms and 
Conditions of this policy.[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes 
treated them fairly in declining Mrs Ms claim for curtailment of the trip. I say that 
because:
Great Lakes says that Mrs M didnt cut short her trip by returning to her home 
country earlier than planned, and she wasnt admitted to hospital as an inpatient, 
so her claim for curtailment isnt covered by the policy. I think thats a correct 
interpretation of the policy terms. But I dont think it leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case and Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence relating to what Mrs M did after Mr M 
had been taken ill. Mrs M accompanied Mr M to hospital. She was 
required to do so and be available to assist throughout the period of his 
treatment, as Mr M couldnt communicate. Their original accommodation 
was too far away from the treating hospital to enable Mrs M to return there 
after hospital visits. Its common ground that Mrs M stayed in a hotel near 
to the treating hospital for the remainder of the trip. Mrs M only returned to 
the original accommodation to collect their things and check-out.
Considering everything, its clear to me that Mrs Ms trip was effectively curtailed 
when Mr M became ill. From then and for the remainder of the trip, Mrs M couldnt 
continue to benefit from the trip: she was away from their intended destination and 
was required to assist Mr M at the treating hospital. In the particular circumstances 
of this case, I think a fair and reasonable outcome requires Great Lakes to deal 
with Mrs Ms claim for curtailment, starting the day Mr M was admitted to hospital 
on 20 December 2019. Great Lakes should also pay interest on any settlement, 
from the date of the claim until the date of payment.
Great Lakes has already agreed to settle Mr Ms curtailment claim. Mr M says that 
he didnt accept that, as Great Lakes made that offer on condition that Mr M 
accepted that the payment resolved his complaint, which it didnt. Great Lakes 
should also settle Mr Ms claim for curtailment on the terms it set out in its e-mail to 
Mr M of 12 April 2021. It should pay interest from the date of the claim until the date 
of payment.I agree with the investigator that there was delay in Great Lakes dealing with parts 
of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. They first made their claim in February 2020. Some parts 
of the claim were settled within a reasonable time. In reaching that view, Ive taken 
into account that whilst Mr and Mrs Ms claim was made before the unexpected 
additional work for insurers created by covid-19, their claim was dealt with in part 
whilst Great Lakes was dealing with issues arising from the pandemic. But           
Mr and Mrs M waited a substantial time for Great Lakes to deal with their 
curtailment claims, which no doubt caused them distress and inconvenience. I think 
that fair compensation for that is £100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr and Mrs M and Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
substantive comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs M nor Great Lakes have provided any further information, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in declining 
Mrs Ms claim for the curtailment of the trip.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now require Great Lakes to:
a) deal with Mrs Ms claim for curtailment under the remaining terms of the 
policy and pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, 
from the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment;
b) settle Mr Ms claim for curtailment on the terms it set out in its e-mail to Mr M 
of 12 April 2021 and pay interest on that amount at the simple rate of 8% per 
year, from the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment;
c) pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £100 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance 
SE to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman