DRN-2620807
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs R complain about the poor service they got from Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
they applied for a new mortgage product for their buy to let mortgage. Mr N and Mrs R want 
Barclays to compensate them for the extra interest they paid and to compensate them for 
their time.
What happened
Mr N and Mrs R had a two-year fixed rate mortgage product with their buy to let mortgage 
that was due to end on 31 May 2019. As they would be out of the country in the run up to 
that date, they tried to organise refinancing before they left, But Mr N and Mrs R say that this 
couldnt be done due to a catalogue of errors by Barclays. Mr N and Mrs R point to the 
following:
At the beginning of April, Barclays said that the product switch documents could be 
sent by email as opposed to post, but they never arrived before they left the country
Two weeks later they started receiving texts and calls from Barclays but couldnt 
reply as they were out of the country
Upon their return in mid - May they found that the relevant documents had been 
posted which they had been trying to avoid. Mr N and Mrs R completed those and 
posted them to Barclays
On 22 May they got a text from Barclays and so contacted Barclays. They were told 
that there was an error processing the documents and any extra interest hey ended 
up paying would be refunded.
Then after trying to contact Barclays, they were resent the documents again to be 
completed again
As this was early June, Mr N and Mrs R checked the current interest rates which had 
fallen and asked for a different rate than previously, but this was refused. Barclays 
said that it would reimburse them for any extra interest they had been charged since 
1 June. Mr N and Mrs R expressed their annoyance and that they didnt want to deal 
with Barclays anymore. Barclays said as they werent going ahead with the rate 
switch with the bank that it wouldnt be refunding the extra interest from 1 June. 
For the poor service and the delay in responding to the complaint, Barclays offered 
£350 compensation. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld as Barclays had responded appropriately to the complaint. Mr N and Mrs 
R disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by Barclays that Mr N and Mrs R got a poor service from the bank when they 
applied for a new mortgage product. Mr N and Mrs R wanted to arrange a new mortgage 
product in good time before the existing one ended and this didnt happen. The question is 
the appropriate compensation. Mr N and Mrs R would have suffered a degree of 
disappointment and frustration with the service they got from Barclays. Clearly in this type of 
situation Mr N and Mrs R would have had concerns that they would have to pay extra 
interest if the new mortgage product wasnt in place before 1 June. But I have to recognise 
that Barclays would have eased those concerns by indicating on 22 May, in advance of the 
crucial date, that if the new mortgage product wasnt in place by the 1 June that it would 
refund any extra interest charged until the mortgage product was in place. I also recognise 
there was delay in responding to the complaint. But, overall, I believe that the figure offered 
by Barclays of £350 is appropriate compensation for Mr N and Mrs Rs trouble and upset.
Ive also looked at whether Mr N and Mrs Rs suffered a financial loss. We try to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in had the errors complained about not been 
made. It seems that if this matter had processed smoothly, Mr N and Mrs R should have 
transferred seamlessly to their new mortgage product that they had chosen on 1 June. So, 
the proper measure of compensation would be any extra interest they paid from 1 June 
because of the delay in being transferred to the new product. The financial loss was because 
they were deprived of the benefit of the new mortgage product whilst awaiting to go on it. But 
If Mr N and Mrs R werent going to take out the product there was no financial loss as they 
werent being deprived of something if they didnt want it. I noted in passing that Mr N and 
Mrs R have referred me to an analogy with a garage repair situation, but I dont consider it 
helpful for several reasons including that it doesnt deal with the issue of financial loss.
In June, Mr N and Mrs R looked at the market and asked to take out a new mortgage 
product at a lower rate rather than the one they had chosen. Barclays said that they then 
wouldnt get the refunded interest from 1 June. I can understand that. The refund of interest 
from 1 June was to compensate them from not getting a particular mortgage product on 1 
June. As Mr N and Mrs R now wanted to reject that mortgage product, I can understand why 
they would have to forego the compensation for not getting a product that they now didnt 
want. So, I believe that Barclays treated them fairly in that respect and for the above reasons 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.      
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman