DRN-3237643
The complaint and what happened
Mr C has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from December 2021, 
which form part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons 
why I was planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that 
Hitachi was responsible for the misrepresentation made by the installer in this case, 
and that it was the misrepresentation which led Mr C to enter into the contract. And 
that he has lost out as a result.
I asked both Mr C and Hitachi to let me have any more information they wanted me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. Neither party had anything substantive 
to add, or any challenge to my provisional findings, but Mr C has confirmed how he 
would like the redress due to him to be handled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and have included here the relevant sections of 
my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in March 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should 
be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Hitachi did not accept that and indeed provided a 
range of fresh evidence in response, asking for an Ombudsman to review the case. We 
have spoken to Mr C about the evidence and taken more testimony from him, as noted in 
the introduction above. Hence the need for a provisional decision setting out further 
rationale.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, essentially for the same reasons as 
those explained by the adjudicator, I am planning to uphold this case. In brief, that is 
because the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and 
Mr C was not given clear information to demonstrate the likely true cost of the solar 
panels. The evidence strongly suggests that it was that misrepresentation which induced 
Mr C to agree to the contract. There is a range of evidence that Ive carefully weighed up 
in this case, and Im going to explore some of it in more detail in this decision.
What information, both written and verbal, was Mr C given by the salesman at the time?
There is still quite a lot of the point of sale documentation available in this instance, which 
is obviously helpful. Most of it is not relevant to the fundamentals of this dispute, however, 
the key issues are what Mr C was told about the cost to him of the panels, and what he 
was told about the income the panels would generate.
There is no dispute about the former question. The overall cost of the finance for the 
panels was set out, as was the monthly repayment.
However, the latter is far more complicated. Mr C says that the salesman was emphatic 
in telling him that the panels would pay for themselves through the savings and income 
they would generate. And he says he relied on that, trusting what he was told. Hitachi 
refutes that, saying that the paperwork made it clear that was not the case. It has 
particularly focused on two pieces of documentary evidence. Firstly, a chart contained 
within the 14- page Handover Pack given to Mr C. Essentially, this sets out the 
predicted annual and cumulative income generated by the panels over a 20-year period. 
Secondly, there is a handwritten note showing some calculations. The handwritten note 
calculates a shortfall, showing a monthly cost to you of just over £28. Hitachi says this 
shows that Mr C must have been told that the panels would not be self-funding and 
would come with a cost attached. Therefore, he cannot have been induced into 
agreeing to the contract by a misrepresentation.
The documentation
I have some comments on the paperwork in the round, and what I think it shows about the 
quality of information provided to Mr C and the nature of the sale. The two documents 
mentioned above show wildly different calculations  Ive not been able to establish any 
parity between them as sources of information. For example, the chart in the handover 
pack suggests that, over 20 years, the panels will generate just over £23,000 of income. 
The handwritten note shows a return on investment (signified by the letters RoI) of nearly 
£33,000. Of course, I have no way of knowing the details of that calculation, such as the 
time period involved. Similarly, the monthly income of £85.90 shown on the handwritten 
note bears no relation to any of the figures in the chart from the Handover Pack. I cant 
see the basis for it. Hitachi has suggested that the handwritten note may have been 
calculating figures from a higher number of panels than was actually installed. However, it 
shows 12 panels costing the correct amount, so that cannot account for the differences.
It is now not possible to truly understand the cursory calculations in the handwritten note 
and the sources of the figures included. Hitachi is relying on it heavily in its defence of this 
case, however, it is only one piece of evidence from the time of the sale. And what it does, 
above all else, is demonstrate how unclear (and ultimately unreliable) the paperwork was. 
Given both documents were exploring costs and income from the same number of panels, 
Hitachi has not explained which Mr C was supposed to rely on in order to do his own 
calculations to understand what he was signing up to.Mr Cs testimony about what he was told
Mr C says that he was told the panels would be self-funding, and has explained that the 
handwritten note was only one of many bits of paper on which the salesman wrote down a 
bewildering series of figures and calculations. However, as it clearly shows a monthly cost 
to you, we asked him to explain what he understood by that. He says that the salesman 
told him that the panels would represent a cost to him for the first few months, but that, 
after that, they would more than pay for themselves. He also mentions being given 
the first months fee to cover that initial shortfall.
Ive thought very carefully about this testimony to determine its plausibility. I can see that 
Mr Cs first repayment wasnt until May 2014  so indeed he didnt begin to pay for the 
panels in month one. Additionally, on the handwritten note there is an unexplained line 
reading C £400. Most of the handwritten note is unexplained, but Ive considered the 
possibility that this figure could have referred to a cashback payment, which is something 
that was not uncommon in the sale of financed solar panels. Additionally, Ive thought 
about how likely it would have been that Mr C would have signed up for the panels had it 
been clear to him that the £28 monthly shortfall would persist for the full 120 months of the 
loan term (a figure of about £3,360). Ive seen nothing to make his testimony implausible, 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest that he would have been willing to actually be £3,360 out 
of pocket just to have solar panels. That makes no sense.
Was anything Mr C was told accurate in terms of the panels performance and 
income generation?
In short, the answer to that question is no. Neither the chart in the handover pack, nor 
the handwritten note, points to what has actually been the performance of the solar 
panels. Ive had the benefit of statements spanning April 2014 to January 2021. They 
show a total cumulative income of £2,515.31 from the panels, equating to an average 
monthly income of
£31. The handwritten note (on which Hitachi seeks heavily to rely) sets out £85.90 
monthly income, and the chart from the handover pack suggests that by Spring 2020 
(year 6) the panels will have generated over £4,500 in income, equating to around £62 
average per month.
The key point here is that there is no evidence to even suggest that Mr C was given 
accurate information, either in writing or verbally, when deciding whether to buy the solar 
panels. On the contrary, all the evidence shows that there was a clear misrepresentation, 
and Ive seen nothing which makes me think it was not that misrepresentation which 
induced Mr C to enter into the contract. It therefore follows that I plan to uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about the fair and reasonable redress in this case. Mr C says he 
was told the panels would be self-funding. Hitachi says he knew that wasnt the case, due 
to the handwritten note discussed at length.
I have found that there was a misrepresentation here, and it induced Mr C to agree to 
the contract. Whether the misrepresentation was that the panels would be fully self-
funding, or that they would generate far more income (and so cost far less) than they 
have, doesnt matter. The relevant legislation allows for the entire contract to be 
unwound where any misrepresentation has occurred.
We are an informal service, which seeks to resolve disputes as quickly as possible. So, we 
have a well-established approach to putting things right in these cases, which reflects the 
complexity of unwinding the contract and removing the solar panels, and avoids it. I intend 
to direct Hitachi to follow our well-established approach and recalculate the loan to make 
the solar panels cost neutral. I consider that to be the fair and pragmatic approach in all the 
circumstances of this case.Hitachi should recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings 
and income to Mr C from the solar panels over the 10-year term of the loan so he pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the 
loan has ended.
In the event the calculation shows that the consumer is paying (or has paid) more than they 
should have Hitachi need to reimburse the consumer accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with the consumer by way of explanation. However, as set out above, the 
relevant statements have already shown that is unlikely to be the case.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mr Cs loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where 
the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Cs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve paid more each month than he shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr 
C have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a)the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing 
early,
b)the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d)the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
In response to this provisional decision, Mr C should indicate which option he wishes 
to accept.
If Mr C has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Hitachi and Hitachi should:
1.Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2.Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.Add simple interest* from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding.
*If Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it has taken off. If 
should also give Mr C a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can claim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.As neither party has disputed the findings contained in my provisional decision, 
or provided any further evidence, I have no reason to depart from them. It 
therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As mentioned in the introduction to this decision, Mr C has indicated that he would like 
Hitachi to follow option D set out above in providing the redress due to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to 
put things right as detailed in the provisional decision, following option D in consideration of 
how the overpayments are to be used.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman