DRN-3536551
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) didnt help recover money he 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr M was interested in trading in Bitcoin. In 2019, he came across a Contracts for Difference 
(CFD) and forex trader called Dualix, a trading name of Maxigrid Limited (previously known 
as AGM Markets Limited). 
Mr M states that he was told he could make a return of up to 30% although this wasnt 
guaranteed; he could also make a loss. He made enquiries and did his research into 
Maxigrid  including checking that it was regulated  before agreeing to open an account 
with it. The trades were executed on Mr Ms behalf by his account manager.
Mr M started with an initial deposit of £250 and subsequently transferred more funds through 
his first direct debit card. He was given access to the trading platform and was persuaded to 
invest more on seeing his trades make profits. Mr M also took out a loan for £10,000 to fund 
his trades.   
The following transactions were made through Mr Ms first direct debit card:
Date (on bank statement) Type Merchant/Payee Amount
12 November 2019 Debit card AGM Markets Limited £250
12 November 2019 Debit card AGM Markets Limited £5,000
13 November 2019 Debit card AGM Markets Limited £5,000
14 November 2019 Debit card AGM Markets Limited £5,000
21 November 2019 Debit card Maxigrid Limited £10,000
26 November 2019 Debit card Maxigrid Limited £1,500
26 November 2019 Debit card Maxigrid Limited £8,500
28 November 2019 Debit card Maxigrid Limited £15,000
3 December 2019 Credit AGM Markets Limited £1,900 (credit)
6 December 2019 Credit AGM Markets Limited £2,000 (credit)
6 December 2019 Debit card Maxigrid Limited £5,000
Total payments £55,250
Total credits £3,900
Total loss £51,350
Then one day in December 2019, when he was in the process of taking out another loan, 
Mr M discovered that all his trading positions had been closed and his trading account had a 
nil balance. Mr M was advised that the matter would be investigated internally, but he 
refused to send more money despite continued contact from Maxigrid.
Mr M contacted first direct at that time and explained that hed been scammed. first direct 
said that hed authorised the transactions so it couldnt treat it as fraud, but it might be able 
dispute them on grounds of misrepresentation if Mr M had supporting documentation. 
The next time first direct heard from Mr M on the matter was in August 2020, when it 
received a complaint from him about its failure to recover the money hed lost. first direct 
didnt uphold the complaint and Mr M referred it to our service.
Our investigator concluded that first direct hadnt acted unfairly in not presenting a 
chargeback as the dispute needed to have been raised within certain timescales and on 
provision of specific evidence. It was also the investigators view that the transactions ought 
to have flagged as unusual on first directs systems, but an intervention was unlikely to have 
made a difference to Mr Ms decision-making.
 
I issued my provisional decision in May 2022. I explained that I intended reaching the same 
outcome as the investigator, but for slightly different reasons. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any more or comments or evidence. first direct 
said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr M rejected my findings and said he would 
provide further information. But despite a few chasers, we havent heard back. 
Im satisfied Mr M has had sufficient time to provide further comments. What follows is my 
provisional decision made final.       
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options, CFD or forex scam 
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. However, while customers who lost out may understandably 
regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal 
threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
Some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could be seen to be 
unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this doesnt always 
amount to fraud.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is important 
because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to protect customers 
from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where 
payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided. Ive also done my own research 
into Maxigrid. It had been regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySEC) since June 2012. It was regulated and authorised for the provision of financial 
services business not just in Cyprus, but also other member states of the European Union 
single market. At the time of Mr Ms payments, the UK was a part of the EU and the EU 
single market. The financial services register of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) would 
have shown that Maxigrid was regulated in another European Economic Area (EEA) country 
and it could offer certain products or services here in the UK. Typically, a trading scammer will set up what looks like an investment trading business and 
provide a trading platform, which may or may not show how the investments or trades are 
performing. Rarely is the business real or the trading platform genuine. The platform might 
show trades being carried out but in reality a customers money hasnt been traded at all  it 
has been stolen by the scammer. A scammer is highly unlikely to submit itself to regulatory 
oversight in any jurisdiction, given the real risk of its true purpose being discovered.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that Maxigrid stole Mr Ms money. Rather, from what 
hes told us, it seems the money was lost because of the trades that were placed. While this 
might indicate poorly executed trades, it isnt persuasive evidence of a scam. 
I can see that in June 2020 the FCA revoked Maxigrids permissions after it decided to 
cease to provide any investment services in the UK. Ive also taken account of CySECs 
recent action of suspending and later withdrawing entirely Maxigrids license to operate. But I 
havent seen any evidence that CySEC took those steps because Maxigrid was a scam or 
had stolen client money; rather the action was taken for other reasons. 
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that Maxigrid was operating a scam and the evidence Ive seen 
suggests that it was indeed regulated  albeit in a different jurisdiction  at the time it offered 
services to Mr M. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that it was in fact a fraudulent 
company. Rather, it is my judgement that Mr M lost his money as a result of investing in a 
high-risk investment. That being the case, first directs duty to protect its customers from the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud wasnt triggered here.
Chargeback
Mr M submits that first direct didnt help recover the funds once he asked for its assistance. 
Recovery options for authorised transactions are limited and depend on the payment 
method. In this case, Mr Ms payments were made by debit card. The avenue here would 
have been a chargeback. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. 
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Theres also a time limit of 120 days from the date 
of the transaction, or the date when goods or services werent received, to raise a 
chargeback.
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for investments 
where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available balances. But Visa 
requires very specific evidence  first direct would have needed to show dated evidence that 
Mr M had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the 
merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balance on 
the same day.
By August 2020, Mr M was outside of Visas chargeback time limits. Even if I were to 
conclude that Mr M complied with the time limits (to be clear that isnt my finding here), it doesnt appear as though he was in possession of the specific evidence required by Visa 
when he contacted first direct. Or, that he would have been able to obtain it  hes told us he 
realised something had gone wrong only after discovering that his trading account had zero 
balance. 
So, I dont think first direct acted unfairly or unreasonably by not presenting a chargeback.
Summary
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my findings. But its important that I mention the 
respondent business here is first direct, not Maxigrid. We dont have jurisdiction over 
Maxigrid, so I cant consider whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with 
Mr M. Im limited to determining whether first direct, as an FCA-regulated bank, acted fairly 
in executing authorised payment instructions to a legitimate company. And whether it acted 
fairly in not attempting a chargeback later on. 
The FCA has published a notice about Maxigrid advising the following:
UK consumers who are not satisfied with any aspect of the handling of their trading 
accounts should first complain to the firm directly. 
The firm must acknowledge receipt of your complaint within five days and then 
provide a material response within two months, telling you whether the complaint has 
been successfully resolved or why they need more time to look in to it (up to a 
maximum of three months from the day of complaint). 
If you are not happy with the firms response, or they fail to respond, you can ask the 
Cyprus Financial Ombudsman to consider your complaint. 
If Mr M wishes to pursue a complaint against Maxigrid directly, he could contact the Cyprus 
Financial Ombudsman and/or CySEC to find out what his options are.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman