DRN-3601589
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) continued to charge him the
full monthly fee for his Travel Plus Pack during the Covid-19 pandemic when he was unable 
to gain access to airport lounges which was a benefit of the account. 
What happened
Mr E has a Travel Plus Pack added to his current account with Barclays. One of the benefits 
that this Pack comes with is access to airport lounges.
Mr E has told us that while he was able to travel the airport lounges remained closed so he 
could not utilise the airport lounge benefit that came with his account. As Mr E wasnt able to 
access the airport lounges, he feels he should either receive a partial refund of the fees he 
has paid for the account, or receive vouchers for the missed lounge visits so he can use 
them at his convenience when the lounges reopen. 
Barclays told Mr E that the package bank account comes with more benefits in addition to 
the airport lounge access and Mr E could cancel his account at any time, so Barclays wasnt 
willing to agree with Mr Es request. However, Barclays did offer Mr E £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr E didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has told us that he feels the Travel Plus Pack was mis-sold as Barclays was offering a 
package bank account that it knew its customers could not fully benefit from.
Mr Es Travel Plus Pack was sold some time before the Covid-19 pandemic so while I 
understand the argument he is making about being mis-sold the Travel Plus Pack, a sales 
process was not followed around the time of the pandemic. As this is the time Mr E is 
complaining about, I am unable to consider his complaint about an actual sale.
But I have considered Mr Es complaint about not being able to use the airport lounge 
benefits that came with his account.
The Travel Plus Pack that Mr E has complained about contains benefits that are included as 
a package and the benefits are not tailored to the individual account holder. So, customers 
are unable to pick and choose the benefits their account comes with. This often means that 
some of the benefits that come with the account are not used by all customers. This would 
not mean a refund of benefits that couldnt be used is issued.
The Travel Plus Pack continued to provide a package of benefits to Barclays customers that 
could be used. This included worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, airport parking 
and hotel discounts.
If a customer felt that the package of benefits that came with the Travel Plus Pack were no 
longer beneficial enough to warrant the monthly fee it would be for the customer to cancel 
the Pack, and this could be done at any time by contacting Barclays.
While I appreciate Mr E feels the Travel Plus Pack has not provided good value for money 
during the Covid-19 pandemic, benefits of the Travel Plus Pack continued to be available for 
him to use and I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong by continuing to charge him 
the fee associated with the account. Barclays does not have any obligation to refund account 
fees when a customer is unable to use all the benefits the account offers.
Barclays has offered Mr E £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill which is more than I 
could suggest in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman