DRN-4495722
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Miss B has raised several issues within this complaint. These are summarised as follows:
A compensation payment due from a previous complaint hadnt been paid.
Miss B experienced difficulties getting through to Lloyds on the phone to raise this 
issue and was left on hold for long periods. 
Miss B found out the compensation payment had been paid to an account she wasnt 
expecting it to be paid to. 
Lloyds transferred the compensation payment to another account without Miss Bs 
authority. 
Unhappy with the overall service received, Miss B complaint to Lloyds.
  
Lloyds acknowledged that being kept on hold for a long period was frustrating for Miss B and 
it apologised. But it didnt agree with the other issues she had raised. Unhappy with the 
response, Miss B referred her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. As Miss B didnt 
accept this outcome, the complaint was passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision. 
 
Miss B has since raised other issues experienced with Lloyds, so for clarity this decision 
relates solely to the complaint points raised above which were addressed in Lloyds final 
response letter of 17 June 2023.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 7 November 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Lloyds has since closed Miss Bs accounts. Miss B hasnt complained 
about this, so I make no finding on Lloyds decision to close Miss Bs accounts.
Compensation payment paid to the wrong account
I can understand Miss Bs frustration that the compensation she was awarded in respect of a 
previous complaint was paid to a different account than what she expected. And it was 
transferred to another account she held with Lloyds before being transferred to the account 
of her choice. Lloyds has acknowledged that this shouldnt have happened. But I havent 
seen anything that would make me think Miss B was unduly inconvenienced by this. The 
compensation was paid around the timescales provided and was ultimately transferred when 
she asked it to be transferred. 
Security questions 
Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong by initiating its caller verification process 
when Miss B contacted it by phone. Banks are required to have such procedures in place.
However, while the investigator said that Lloyds hadnt treated Miss B unfairly, I disagree. 
Lloyds told our investigator that Miss B had never informed it that she doesnt like to provide 
her date of birth as identification. But Ive seen that Miss B has raised the issue about being 
asked an alternative question before  in a previous complaint referred to Lloyds and this 
service. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds was aware that it needed to ask Miss B an alternative 
question and - given the previous circumstances, I find it should have done so. As this didnt 
happen, Im persuaded Miss B was caused distress and inconvenience. Ill refer to this again 
below.
Extended time calls placed on hold
Lloyds has acknowledged that Miss B was kept on hold for extended periods of time when 
she called. Ive listened to the calls relevant to this complaint, and while I understand that the 
call handlers were referring aspects of Miss Bs calls to senior colleagues, I find that the calls 
couldve have been handled better than they were  for example, explaining more clearly 
what was happening and an apology for keeping Miss B waiting would have been 
appropriate. Overall, Im persuaded that the time Miss B was kept waiting caused her 
inconvenience. 
 
Putting things right 
   
Overall, Im persuaded that Lloyds couldve handled Miss Bs calls better than it did. As a 
result, for the reasons given, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay Miss B 
£100 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.  
Responses to my provision decision
Lloyds accepted the provision decision. 
Miss B said that she had been inconvenienced when Lloyds paid the compensation money 
into the incorrect account and that she had the embarrassment of having to borrow money 
that she is still in the process of paying back. Miss B also said that she thought she had 
complained about the account closure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my findings in the provisional decision. 
Miss B says she thought she had complained about the account closure as part of this 
complaint. But I havent seen anything to make me think she did. At the time Miss B had the 
telephone call with Lloyds, her accounts were still open. So, I dont think she had any reason 
to complain about the account closure at that point. And Lloyds final reason letter  which 
sets out the complaint it responded to doesnt suggest that the account closure was a 
complaint point that Miss B had raised at that time.Ive thought about what Miss B has said regarding the inconvenience caused when Lloyds 
paid the compensation payment she was awarded as a result of a previous complaint to a 
different account than she expected. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss B asked 
Lloyds to pay the compensation in a specific account. As the payment went to a valid 
account in Miss Bs name, I dont find Lloyds did anything wrong in this respect. 
But, as explained in my provisional decision, Ive found that Lloyds could have handled               
Miss Bs telephone call better than it did. She was kept on hold for an extended period of 
time without any real explanation. And Im also satisfied that Lloyds was aware that it 
needed to ask Miss B an alternative security question when she called.
 
As a result, for the reasons given, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
pay Miss B £100 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Bs complaint
Lloyds Bank PLC should now pay Miss B £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman