DRN-3983941
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays when he re-mortgaged his buy-to-let property with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires). He asks that it admits its errors, fixes its 
software and training, and pays for compensation for his stress, time and interest costs.
What happened
Mr M applied to Birmingham Midshires via a broker, and it issued a mortgage offer in March 
2022. Mr M wanted to complete his re-mortgage after the end of August 2022, so that he 
wouldnt incur an early repayment charge with his previous lender. Mr M says an error in 
Birmingham Midshires systems caused it to change solicitors which delayed completion. 
Mr M says he incurred additional interest charges, and the delays caused him stress and 
trauma over weeks and days as he chased Birmingham Midshires, its solicitor and broker 
trying to find out what had happened. 
Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires received the certificate of title from the solicitor 
in early September 2022 and sent funds five working days later. He said the timescales it 
worked to were fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said it wasnt right that a lender could change solicitors without 
informing him, leading to him incurring interest costs with no repercussions for the lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Birmingham Midshires issued a mortgage offer to Mr M in March 2022. The mortgage offer 
included free legals and Birmingham Midshires instructed solicitors to carry out the basic 
legal work. 
Birmingham Midshires says Mr Ms broker didnt tell it that he wanted to delay completion 
until September 2022. It says as there was no activity the account was set to not proceeding. 
It re-instated the account on 5 September 2022 after it received a certificate of title from the 
solicitor. Birmingham Midshires says its underwriters re-approved the offer and its systems 
automatically allocated a new solicitor. Its records support this. The solicitors allocated in 
September was a different firm to the firm originally instructed in March 2022.
Mr M made a complaint on 7 September 2022, as the re-mortgage hadnt completed as hed 
expected. On 8 September 2022 Mr Ms broker contacted Birmingham Midshires and told it 
solicitors had already been allocated in March 2022. Birmingham Midshires re-instated the 
original solicitor and released funds to the solicitor on 8 September 2022. The re-mortgage 
completed on 9 September 2022.
Was Birmingham Midshires responsible for any delays?
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. Hed secured a mortgage offer well in advance of his 
product expiring. Between the product expiring at the end of August 2022 and the re-
mortgage completing, Mr M would most likely have paid interest on his previous lenders 
standard variable rate. 
I need to take all of the circumstances into account when deciding if this delay was solely or 
mainly due to errors by Birmingham Midshires. 
While a copy of the certificate of title received by Birmingham Midshires in early September 
2022 hasnt been provided to me, Birmingham Midshires records say it was dated for 
completion on 6 September 2022. So Birmingham Midshires wasnt responsible for the re-
mortgage not completing before this.
Mr M provided an email from his broker saying it's usual for borrowers to re-mortgage just 
after their current product expires. I dont disagree with that. But what was unusual here was 
that there was a period of more than five months after the mortgage offer was issued without 
any contact and, it seems, anyone telling Birmingham Midshires why this was. I dont think I 
can fairly find it was wrong or unfair for Birmingham Midshires systems to set the account to 
not proceeding in these circumstances. It follows that Birmingham Midshires would need to 
take steps to re-activate the account.
Once Birmingham Midshires received the certificate of title, I think it acted in a timely manner 
to re-activate the account and provide funds for the re-mortgage. It was unfortunate that its 
systems automatically allocated new solicitors, and its clear this caused confusion. Mr M, 
his broker and the solicitors contacted Birmingham Midshires to sort this out. But I dont think 
this delayed completion. Birmingham Midshires accepted the certificate of title provided by 
the original solicitors. 
Mr M says this caused trauma and stress over weeks or days as he chased Birmingham 
Midshires and the other parties involved to find out what had happened. I need to take into 
account here that letting property is a business, and taking out a buy to let mortgage is part 
of running that business. And the period during which there was any uncertainty about what 
was happening was short.
Birmingham Midshires reactivated Mr Ms account on 5 September 2022 and funds were 
transferred on 8 September 2022  three days later. I dont think I can fairly find that 
Birmingham Midshires caused delays such as to make it fair and reasonable to require it to 
pay compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman