DRN-3784240
The complaint
Mr M complains that Parallel Financial Limited failed to set up critical illness and income 
protection insurance policies in 2015. 
Mr M is being represented by his partner  Ms T  but for ease Ill refer to Mr M throughout 
my decision. 
What happened
Both sides are aware of the background to this complaint, so I wont repeat that here. But in 
summary Mr M has complained that Parallel failed to set up an income protection and a 
critical illness policy (with different insurers) for him in 2015. Sadly, in 2019 he needed a 
quadruple-bypass heart operation. He asked Parallel to help with his claim, which Parallel 
agreed to and said it had contacted the alleged insurer. But it was then confirmed that no 
such policy was ever put in place. A complaint was raised and Parallel made an offer of 
£25,000.  
Mr M didnt accept the offer. He wants the total claim for his critical illness policy to be paid 
with compensation including legal fees of £4,200. So, he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and that Parallel was responsible for 
Mr M not having critical illness cover in place. He said that there was evidence to indicate 
that, had Mr M completed an application for critical illness cover on the terms Parallel 
recommended in 2015 (which wouldve offered a sum assured of £3,500 paid each month 
for the remainder of the term, with the policy running until Mr M reached the age of 65), the 
insurer wouldve been prepared to offer the cover at its normal prices. So, its most likely 
Mr M wouldve been in a position to make a successful claim after his heart operation in 
2019, and the claim value wouldve exceeded the £25,000 offer. 
The Investigator said Parallel should contact the insurer to see: 
whether a claim wouldve been payable and if it wouldve been then Parallel should meet 
the full value of any claim with interest;
what date the claim likely wouldve been accepted, assuming it had been brought and 
handled reasonably promptly;
how much Mr M wouldve received in total to the end of the policy term;
how much Mr M wouldve paid in premiums prior to a claim being accepted, assuming 
the policy had been in place from October 2015 and assuming a claim had been paid 
reasonably promptly as above. These could be deducted from the total claim amount.
Parallel didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. It said it 
provided advice to Mr M in relation to an income protection and critical illness policy in 2014 
that would last up to five years. But this wasnt taken up by Mr M, which shows he has a 
history or not proceeding with policies. And if he had proceeded with the 2014 policies, he 
wouldnt have needed to return in 2015 for further advice. 
Parallel added that in relation to the 2015 policies that werent set up, and which forms the 
basis of this complaint, it received a completed application for a critical illness policy with a 
monthly benefit of £3,500 per month and extending the term of the critical illness cover to 
Mr Ms 65th birthday. But its advisor did seek further information from Mr M in order to 
proceed. 
Parallel said a call was arranged but this was cancelled by Mr M and the advisor couldnt 
submit the application without this outstanding information. So, the policy wasnt put in place 
and Mr M was most likely aware of this position in 2015 despite the annual statements from 
Parallel saying otherwise. Parallel thinks it was Mr Ms own actions that led to the policy not 
being set up.
I considered the complaint and told both sides I was minded to uphold it. I said I was minded 
to say that Parallel should pay Mr M the full amount he wouldve expected to receive from a 
critical illness claim with the insurer (once the insurer confirmed it likely wouldve accepted a 
claim) minus the premiums he wouldve paid, with 8% simple interest and £1,500 in 
compensation. 
This service contacted the insurer who said it likely wouldve accepted a claim for Mr M in 
the circumstances. 
Mr M accepted the decision and said the total amount he wouldve expected to receive was 
£182,000 minus £9,000.20 in premiums. 
Parallel responded to say that this service doesnt have the authority to ask it to pay any 
more than £160,000 for this complaint. So, it made that offer to Mr M as a gesture of 
goodwill saying it wasnt prepared to admit liability here.  
Mr M hasnt accepted Parallels latest offer and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr M has said that according to his records he was expecting a call with Parallel in 2015 and 
that the call didnt happen but that he didnt cancel it. And that Parallel had sent him various 
documents since 2015 which showed the policy had been set up. 
Parallel said a call was arranged with Mr M but this was cancelled by him. And the advisor 
couldnt submit the application without the outstanding information he wanted to discuss with 
Mr M. So, the policy wasnt put in place and Mr M was most likely aware of this position in 
2015. Parallel thinks it was Mr Ms own actions that led to the policy not being set up. I note the 2014 policies didnt proceed at Mr Ms wishes. But I dont consider it fair for 
Parallel to blame Mr M for not having cover in place because he didnt want the 2014 
policies. Mr M said the proposed terms in 2014 werent acceptable to him. This is supported 
by Parallels own comments and evidence that a conversation took place in 2015 to improve 
the terms of the previous policies that were discussed. And Im satisfied he returned and 
spoke to Parallel again in 2015, in order to arrange improved terms. I think this shows that 
Mr M did want the critical illness policy, he later tried to claim on, in 2015. He completed the 
application form and submitted it to Parallel. And there was an e-mail from Mr Ms partner 
(dated 28 September 2015) which told Parallel to go ahead on the improved terms. 
Parallel questions whether Mr M wanted the later policy and again references the fact the 
2014 policies werent set up and that it sent an e-mail to him asking for further information. 
But Ive seen the e-mail that was sent to Mr M on 27 October 2015 by Parallel which asked 
to have a conversation with him. It says the following; 
I sent your Declaration of Health to the insurer last week and Im just waiting to hear from 
underwriters. I have also now received theData Capture Forms which you kindly signed 
and returned. There are some sections on these Forms that I require your input on and in 
this respect I wondered if you had 10-15 minutes to speak with me this week?
Parallel says Mr M cancelled this call. Mr M disputes this saying he had a diary entry for the 
call but there was no further communication between the two. Mr M says this led him to 
believe nothing further was needed. 
Parallel has then provided a copy of a letter it sent to the insurer for the income protection 
policy, dated 30 October 2015, which says that policy is no longer wanted. But there are no 
letters to confirm the critical illness policy was no longer wanted. And I note in an internal 
e-mail at Parallel that the insurer had underwritten Mr M already for the critical illness policy 
but a quote Parallel had obtained for an income protection policy was only valid until 
28 October 2015. 
From reading the above e-mail  dated 27 October 2015-  I dont think its sufficiently clear 
that if Mr M didnt have a conversation with Parallel about the critical illness policy then the 
application wouldnt be submitted. In fact, it confirms the Declaration of Health had been 
submitted and Parallel was waiting to hear back from the underwriters. I dont think this is 
persuasive evidence that shows an application wouldnt be submitted if a call didnt take 
place. I think its more likely here that for all Mr M knew, Parallel wanted to have a generic 
conversation with him and get some further input. The e-mail says Parallel was waiting to 
hear from the underwriters, but Mr M wasnt told what that response from the underwriters 
was and there is no further documented communication after this point apart from the annual 
statements and reviews (that Ill move on to below). So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him to assume there wasnt an issue with the critical illness policy at that point in time. 
Parallel said its not up to it to chase its clients to see if they want protection policies. Again, I 
dont find this very persuasive, given all the circumstances here, because Parallel has sent 
annual statements to Mr M saying the policy was put in place. Parallel might not consider 
itself obligated to chase clients to see if they want to proceed with a policy, but it does have 
to send accurate and clear communication which isnt misleading. 
As the Investigator pointed out, the statements provide detailed information about an income 
protection policy and a critical illness policy. They list individual policy numbers and start 
dates of 13 November 2015 (around two weeks after the request to have a chat with Mr M 
from Parallel). Again, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Mr M to assume his policies had been 
set up upon receiving this and there was nothing further for him to do. Otherwise, why would he receive policy numbers and a confirmed start date after he provided a completed 
application form to his advisor. The policies were then listed on his annual statements from 
February 2016 every year until 2019. 
There was also a letter from January 2017 following a review of Mr Ms investments and 
protection which took place at his home. This mentions Mr Ms existing protection policies, 
and that it was recommended they be put in a flexible discretionary trust to mitigate potential 
future inheritance tax. This adds further weight to the point that Mr M wouldve considered 
his policies had been set up. And that Parallel thought the same if a conversation and 
recommendation took place in relation to the policies. 
Parallel says Mr M shouldve been alerted to the fact that no premiums were taken for his 
policies and that as a sophisticated businessman, its more likely than not he wouldve been 
aware there was no cover in place. But I dont find this very persuasive. Mr M went to 
Parallel for financial advice. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to assume that the 
policies had been put in place, given the correspondence he received from regulated 
financial advisors, saying they had been set up. Its clear Mr M trusted the advice and 
service he received here, and I dont find that to be unreasonable in all the circumstances. 
Parallel has confirmed to this service that the policies were falsely displayed on the annual 
review packs and shared with Mr M. And that although his plans werent in force, it was also 
led to believe they were by its employee. It therefore inadvertently led Mr M to believe the 
same. I dont think I need to delve too deeply into why the employee took the action they did. 
But I think the fact the employee decided to hide the fact the policies hadnt been set up from 
both Parallel and Mr M is more persuasive evidence - on balance - that they were important 
to Mr M. Otherwise it wouldnt have been necessary to mislead both Parallel and Mr M. 
And I dont think it would be right for Parallel not to take responsibility for the employee who 
decided to take that course of action. Ultimately, it was that course of action that led to Mr M 
thinking that he had the required and wanted cover in place. And I note there appear to have 
been fabricated conversations between the same employee and Mr M and his partner where 
it was relayed to them that the employee was in discussions with the insurer about the claim. 
With some e-mails stating the insurer was considering rejecting the, what appears to be, 
fictional claim. 
I note from the e-mails that the income protection policy needed to be confirmed by 
28 October 2015. As both parties confirm no conversation took place that day, I think its 
likely the information needed to progress that policy was always unlikely to be obtained and 
submitted on time. So, Im not willing to ask Parallel to make up for the loss of that policy. 
But the critical illness policy is different. Im satisfied that cover was wanted, and Parallels 
errors meant Mr M was unfairly led to believe this policy was active. So, I think the fairest 
thing to do would be for Parallel to pay compensation to the value of a successful critical 
illness claim under the policy that shouldve started in 2015. 
Parallel has suggested that if this service still thinks the complaint should be upheld then a 
reduction to the redress should be made due to Mr Ms own actions and any loss should be 
capped at the difference in cover between the 2014 policy and the 2015 policy given the 
2014 policy wouldve been in place and Mr M wouldve been able to benefit from this had he 
responded with a start date back in 2014. And a reduction should be made to any award 
suggested because of Mr Ms own negligence in not speaking to Parallel in 2015 and then 
not responding accordingly.
After considering Parallels recommendation, I disagree that Mr M shouldve his redress 
reduced. And I find Parallels reasoning to be unfair. I dont consider the 2014 policy not 
going ahead to be a reasonable point. Im satisfied that nothing went ahead in 2014 because it wasnt suitable for Mr M  hence the reason he returned and discussed different terms 
which has been confirmed by Parallel. And the bar for me making a finding that Mr M has 
been negligent is high and one that Parallel has not met, based upon my reasons for 
upholding this complaint. But to be clear, I can understand why a reasonable person 
wouldve considered this policy had been put in place. So, Ive found no reason to reduce 
Mr Ms redress here.  
Putting things right
The insurer of the critical illness policy has confirmed that a coronary artery bypass was 
covered under the policy. So, if Mr Ms medical evidence supported that, and it isnt disputed 
that he suffered a heart attack and had a quadruple bypass, then it likely wouldve settled the 
claim. Its also worth noting that as a part of this services investigation the insurer has also 
had sight of Mr Ms medical circumstances in order to confirm whether or not it wouldve 
likely offered a policy in 2015. So, the insurers responses satisfy me that its more than likely 
Mr M wouldve been able to successfully claim under the policy. 
Parallel has said that it wont pay more than the award limit of £160,000. It says that only 
judgment interest can be awarded in addition to the maximum award limit of £160,000. And 
that any interest added to the total award limit is directed at compensating Mr M. But Parallel 
says the 8% interest is part of the money award and should therefore be subject to the limit. 
Parallel has also raised the case of Bunney v Burns Anderson plc which it says remains 
authority for the fact that the Financial Ombudsman has no jurisdiction or power to make a 
money award in excess of the statutory cap. 
In this case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 (when Mr M thought the policy 
had been set up) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 but before 1 April 
2022 (it was referred to us in November 2020), so the applicable compensation limit would 
be £160,000. So, where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a 
financial business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I 
consider appropriate. Here, I can tell Parallel to add 8% simple interest per year, to the total 
award limit of £160,000, from the date the claim shouldve been paid to the date of 
settlement. But if I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend 
that Parallel pays the balance. 
Mr M was diagnosed in January 2019 and had his surgery in February 2019. Upon a 
successful claim, the benefit wouldve become payable from the date of diagnosis to the 
date of Mr Ms 65th birthday in May 2023. The benefit under the policy wouldve been 
£42,000 per year or £3,500 per month. In total Mr M wouldve been able to claim  £182,000 
from the policy. 
The premium cost was going to be £204.55. I think it would be fair to say that a claim 
wouldve most likely taken up to six weeks to consider and accept. Mr M told Parallel about 
the claim in May 2019. Six weeks from that date would be July 2019. So, I think July 2019 
would be a reasonable time to say that Mr M wouldve stopped paying premiums towards 
this policy. Mr M wouldve paid a total of £9,000.20 in premiums from November 2015 to July 
2019. 
The £160,000 compensation for this complaint is less than what Mr M wouldve expected to 
receive from the critical illness policy  (£182,000), minus the premiums (£9,000.20) which 
comes to £172,999.80. 
Parallel has raised an issue with me awarding 8% simple interest per year from the date the 
claim should reasonably have been paid to the date of settlement. My power to award interest derives from s229(8) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 which provides: 
S229(8) A money award
(a)may provide for the amount payable under the award to bear interest at a rate and 
as from a date specified in the award; and
This power is replicated in DISP3.7.8R.  
The DISP rules further provide at DISP3.7.5G:  
For the purpose of calculating the maximum money award, the following are 
excluded:
(1) any interest awarded on the amount payable under a money award.
Im satisfied that these provisions give me the power to award interest on the money award, 
as well as the discretion to determine the rate at which it must be paid and the date from 
which it is payable. 
The discretion to award interest enables me to fairly compensate Mr M for being deprived of 
the claim money from the date it shouldve been paid to the date the money award is finally 
settled. I believe it to be fair and reasonable to award interest on that basis. I think that being 
deprived of that money has come at a cost to Mr M  he is a private individual for whom the 
deprivation of money might have resulted in borrowing costs and/or lost opportunities to 
invest or use the money for his benefit. Its fair that he should be compensated for that loss 
during the time he shouldve had use of it, and I consider our broad-brush rate of 8% simple 
to be a fair measure of that loss. Im satisfied that its that cost that the interest award in 
s229(8) of FSMA is designed to redress. 
My award here asks Parallel to pay the claim (the money award) and compensate with 
interest (the interest award) for the time in which Mr M shouldve had use of the claim money 
(had a policy been set up and the claim paid). This is in line with the established approach of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Its also in line with the approach in the courts, where 
pre-judgment interest can be awarded on top of damages.  
To be clear, in this case the money award comprises the value of the claim that shouldve 
reasonably been paid to Mr M (£160K) around July 2019. The pre-determination interest Im 
awarding is the interest award thats paid on top of that sum from the date the claim 
shouldve been paid. This interest is not taken into account when applying the money limit 
(DISP3.7.5G).  There is a further interest award that is payable if Parallel fails to settle this 
claim in time (post-determination interest). The money award and the interest awards are 
distinct from each other, as is recognised in our rules at DISP3.7.1R, which provides: 
DISP 3.7.1R
Where a complaint is determined in favour of the complainant, the Ombudsman's 
determination may include one or more of the following:
(1) a money award against the respondent; or
(2) an interest award against the respondent; [my emphasis]Parallel says its only the post-determination interest (interest owing for late payment) that is 
excluded when applying the money limit. But this is not what the guidance in DISP3.7.5G 
says. That provision makes it plain that any interest awarded should not be taken into 
account in the application of the money limit  and that must therefore include both the pre-
determination and post-determination interest I have awarded.  
Parallel has also raised the court case of Bunney v Burns Anderson Plc. But I dont agree 
that case means Im unable to award interest on the money award here. In Bunney the court 
concluded that, on reading all the statutory provisions as a whole, the Ombudsmans power 
to make a direction cannot be used to circumvent the monetary cap. The court didnt direct 
its mind to the application of the money limit to an award of interest. In my view, Im not 
using a direction to circumvent the money limit.  As Ive set out above, I have the clear power 
to award pre-determination interest on the money award, and the provisions in DISP make it 
plain that that interest doesnt form part of the money award itself. So, I dont believe the 
case Parallel has raised supports its argument here.
To be clear I consider that Parallel should pay Mr M £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this issue has caused at a time where he has already suffered from a serious 
medical condition and surgery. Ive also considered the fact that when Mr M thought he was 
making a claim he was told about fabricated conversations with the insurer. Finding that out, 
on top of the fact no policy existed, at such a difficult time wouldve caused considerable 
distress. But as the award cap is set at £160,000, my award cannot include this. However, I 
recommend Parallel make this payment when reaching a fair decision about its handling of 
the complaint. 
Im not awarding Mr M any compensation for the legal fees he has claimed as it was his 
decision to seek that legal advice at the time.  
Decision and award  I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as follows £172,999.80 plus 8% simple interest per year and £1,500 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered. My decision is that Parallel Financial Limited 
should pay Mr M the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
and add 8% simple interest per year to this amount from the date the claim shouldve been 
paid to the date of settlement.  
Recommendation: As the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Parallel Financial Limited pays Mr M the difference 
between the two calculations. The interest award is not to be taken into account when 
applying the money limit of £160K.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Parallel Financial Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Parallel 
Financial Limited to pay compensation to Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman