DRN-2675587
The complaint
Mrs J complains that the loan she had from Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma Loans) was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Mrs J had one loan from Satsuma in December 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 26 Dec 2018 £150 3m £73.80 28 Mar 2019 On time
Mrs J says she had a poor credit rating when the loan was approved, and the repayments 
caused her financial difficulty. She says she already had debt worth thousands of pounds 
and never should have been approved for further lending. Mrs J adds that she was suffering 
from mental health issues at the time which affected her ability to manage money and that 
the anxiety caused both her mental and physical health to deteriorate further. She says shes 
provided proof of this to Satsuma, but it still did not uphold her complaint, even though she 
says other debts have been written off due to her mental health. She adds that Satsuma also 
asked her for the same information on multiple occasions before it would respond to her 
complaint.
Satsuma says it conducted a credit check and asked Mrs J about her income and 
expenditure. It says it uses a wide range of data sources to ensure it has the most up-to-date 
information about Mrs Js circumstances. It says its checks caused it to reduce Mrs Js 
disposable income by over £200 but it still showed the loan was affordable. In addition, 
Satsuma apologised to Mrs J for the inconvenience of having been asked for duplicate 
information unnecessarily.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Satsuma carried out proportionate checks in the circumstances and that there was nothing 
to indicate the loan was unaffordable to Mrs J.
Mrs J responded to say, in summary, that she was already significantly in debt at the time 
and that she had provided evidence of her mental health problems as well as a recent letter 
from a debt collection agency. She adds that she is taking medication to stabilise her mood 
and her physical health is also affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.When Mrs J applied for her loan, I can see Satsuma asked her about her income and 
expenditure and applied its own safeguards based on electronic information gathered from 
credit agencies and internal models. Satsumas credit checks showed no bankruptcy, county 
court judgements, debt management plans or arrears. Mrs J had declared her disposable 
income to be £450, but Satsuma adjusted that figure down to less than £240 based on its 
own checks, which included a sanity check on her declared income.
As this was Mrs Js first loan with Satsuma and the repayments were less than 7% of her 
income, I cant conclude it needed to carry out any further checks based on the information it 
already had. Despite the adjustment to Mrs Js disposable income, Im satisfied Satsuma 
would have found the scheduled monthly repayments of £73.80 to be affordable.
That said, Id like to reassure Mrs J that I have read her extensive submissions about both 
her physical and mental health both now and at the time of the loan. There is clear evidence 
that Mrs Js mental health is such that she finds money management difficult and the issues 
surrounding her debt problems are adding to her anxieties. It also seems likely that the 
resultant stress may, at least in part, have contributed to her other physical conditions, for 
which she has submitted further evidence.
But I cant see that Satsuma had any of this information at the time it approved Mrs Js loan 
and so I cannot conclude it should have made a different lending decision. Although I very 
much empathise with Mrs Js situation, I dont find Satsuma did anything wrong when it 
approved her loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman