DRN-2880075
The complaint
 Mr Ps complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to the delay in the transfer of 
funds from an existing ISA account to a new one he had opened with Santander.
What happened
 On 12 March Mr P opened an ISA with Santander and requested that the funds in his 
existing stocks and shares ISA, with a company I shall call X, were transferred to his new 
ISA.
On 13 March Santander wrote to an organisation called AACL making the request for the 
funds to be so transferred. Unfortunately, that was the wrong organisation as Santander 
should have written to LFIL. On 23 March LFIL received the transfer request from Santander 
but couldnt issue a cheque as their offices were closed due to the pandemic. Santander 
supplied their account details on 7 April and LFIL processed the transfer that day, but the 
funds were returned on 18 April. LFIL tried to send the funds again on 22 April but Santander 
returned them on 28 April. 
LFIL asked why the funds kept getting returned and Santander replied on 7 May providing 
the correct account details. Mr P received the funds into his account on 20 May.
Santander upheld Mr Ps complaint accepting they had made an error in writing to the wrong 
organisation, and in recognition of that paid £75 into Mr Ps current account.
Mr P was unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had poor service 
by Santander and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. The investigator 
thought that in addition to the £75 paid to Mr P, Santander ought to apply interest to Mr Ps 
ISA as from 7 May 2020 at the rate at which the ISA was opened with Santander on 12 
March 2020.
Neither Mr P or Santander agreed with that view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. Santander has accepted it, but 
Mr P has disagreed, and I have addressed the points he makes below.
The vast majority of the facts of this complaint are accepted by both parties. The 
fundamental factor is that Santander initially made a request to the wrong company and it 
has accepted that was an error on its part.
The issue that required some further investigation revolved around who was responsible for 
the delay after the 23 March, being the time when the correct transfer request was received 
by LFIL.
Our investigator looked into this very carefully and obtained a concession from LFIL. I have 
seen the email from LFIL explaining that a Mr OB from a firm called PFA gave LFIL the 
wrong account details for the transfer which was why the funds were being returned by 
Santander. It is clear from this piece of evidence that Santander cannot be said to be at fault 
for the delays after the 23 March. 
In his final response to our investigator Mr P said that he accepted most of the points our 
investigator had made and that his core complaint was that he did not feel the compensation 
paid by Santander reflected their severity of its initial error and was unreasonable, unfair and 
totally inadequate. Mr P has referred to the enormous stress he felt because of this issue, 
and the worry he had about the whereabout of his savings, which were not inconsiderable. I 
can certainly agree that this would have been an extremely worrying event for Mr P but what 
I must focus on is the effect of Santanders error not the overall delay from when the transfer 
was first requested to when the monies were received.
The effect of Santanders error was to put a 10-day delay in the process from the 13 March 
to 23 March. Had Santander written to LFIL on 13 March when it ought to have done, when 
the country was not in lockdown, it is likely a cheque would have been issued and sent to 
Santander in the manner in which LFIL have described. That cheque would have required 
time to clear and so one might reasonably expect the funds to have been transferred into Mr 
Ps new ISA a few days after the 13 March. Mr P feels that the delay from 13 March to 23 
March is crucial because the markets significantly changed. He has said that his ISA stocks 
and shares investment significantly reduced from the early part of March to the latter as the 
market fell due to the pandemic effect upon it.  
In my provisional decision I commented that I thought the FTSE 100 index for March 2020 
showed that for the time period complained about, the market was more or less stable and 
thus I saw no prejudice to Mr P. It is clear the market was fluctuating but between the dates 
complained about it had not significantly shifted. I picked on 16 March as a date because 
this was the next working day after Santander sent its initial request, and I thought it 
reasonable to have expected LFIL to have dealt with Santanders request that day. I 
commented that the FTSE 100 index stood at 5,151 on that day. Mr P says that was the 
closing figure, the opening figure being 5,366. I then picked on the 24 March being the next 
working day after the 23 March and I used that for the same reasons I picked the 16 March. I 
appreciate Mr P thinks this is somewhat arbitrary, but it isnt, as Im adopting the same 
methodology. To give me some guide as to what the markets were doing in that period I 
chose the closing figures for that day. I accept I could have used opening figures and the 
numbers would have been different but broadly the picture would remain the same, when 
taking account all the data for the period complained about.
I dont have any direct evidence from Mr P as to his actual losses and so I cannot be 
satisfied that there is any direct loss. I have therefore used the FTSE 100 index merely as a 
guide as to what the financial markets were like at the time Mr P complains about. In my 
provisional decision I had said between the dates complained about the market had risen 
and that is correct if one uses the closing figures on the 16 and 24 March. In the absence of 
any direct evidence showing actual loss I have determined that on a balance of probabilities, taking account of what the FTSE was doing at that time, that it is unlikely that Mr P suffered 
any loss due to Santanders error. 
Ive given Santanders compensation payment of £75 some further thought, and I dont think 
it is fair and reasonable because I dont think it takes into account the lost interest Mr P 
sustained for the period of delay caused by Santander. I very much appreciate that 
Santander didnt cause the major part of the delay, but it did cause some. Had Santander 
written to LFIL correctly in the first instance on 13 March it would have avoided the 10 days 
of delay that arose before it realised its mistake.
Putting things right
So, I think Santander should pay Mr P the interest he would have earned on the sums 
transferred for that period of 10 days, because in all probability had Santander not made that 
error, Mr Ps funds would have reached Santander 10 days earlier and he would have been 
earning interest on those funds. The rate of interest should be the rate he was getting when 
he opened the new ISA.  
My final decision
Santander UK Plc shall pay Mr P a sum equal to the interest for a period of 10 days at the 
rate of interest he was getting when he opened the new ISA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman