DRN-3683873
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
handled a claim under a furniture insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Ms W tells us an area of her leather sofa peeled after she used a specialist wipe. And 
she made a claim on her policy in September 2021.
Attempts were made to carry out repairs and these failed.
A replacement part was ordered but, after some time had passed, the wrong part 
was provided by the manufacturers.
Acasta offered a credit note with the retailer for £1,149, the cost of the furniture when 
purchased.
Ms W didnt accept this and wanted the furniture to be replaced or a cash settlement 
of £1,400 as the cost had risen since she purchased it.
Acasta suggested 3 options to resolve the complaint: 
1. Reorder the part needed and arrange an upholsterer to fit it
2. A credit note for £1,149 to purchase a replacement and keep the damaged 
item
3. A cash settlement of £689.40, representing 60% of the value of the damaged 
item, and keep the damaged item
Acasta made 2 payments totalling £125 for the delays in progressing the claim.
Ms W wasnt happy with these options and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said the settlement offered was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and he couldnt hold Acasta responsible for delays outside its control 
such as shipping time and the manufacturer sending incorrect parts. He 
acknowledged Acasta had made mistakes by entering the wrong address details but 
felt the compensation it had offered was reasonable.
Ms A remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and I find it clear they allow Acasta the option 
to repair, replace or make a cash settlement. And it was reasonable for it to attempt repairs 
and then make further attempts involving replacement parts. 
The terms set out where Acasta is not able to repair the damage it will issue a credit note for 
the amount paid. The terms go onto say Acasta may choose to offer a cash settlement and 
this will be lower than the value of the credit note to take account any discounts it may 
receive. In this case Acasta has offered all 3 options to Ms W.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that its maximum liability is the original purchase price. And it 
is clear any cash settlement will take into account the discount Acasta receives, and I would 
add this is not uncommon in insurance policies. I also note the specific item of furniture is no 
longer available, so a direct replacement isnt possible.  
I agree there have been errors in the handling of this claim that have contributed to the time 
taken to resolve things. I can understand Ms Ws frustration. And I find the £125 
compensation offered is fair.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied Acasta has acted reasonably and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more than it has.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman