DRN-3176775
The complaint
Mr T complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
effective affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr T wouldnt have been provided with
the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. Morses did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion and provided some additional comments. The complaint was then 
passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ts complaint  but I had reached a different conclusion to the one reached by the  
adjudicator. I was intending to not uphold as many loans.  A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr T took seven home collected loans between November 2013 and January 2019. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Morses acquired some of these accounts from a previous lender, but it only purchased loans
that were open in March 2014, which was when the acquisition took place. So Morses
believes there may have been four further (prior to November 2013) but it doesnt have any
information about them because these loans were likely sold, settled or closed before the
acquisition took place. So, the only loans that this decision covers are those listed in the
table above.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 3 and all further loans shouldnt have been lent. He said the
pattern of lending indicated Mr T had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore
shouldnt have been provided with loans 3 - 7.
Mr T appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)repayment 
amount
1 £200.00 12/11/2013 14/10/2014 50 £7.00
2 £200.00 14/10/2014 21/07/2015 50 £7.00
3 £200.00 21/07/2015 08/04/2016 34 £10.00
4 £300.00 20/07/2016 07/04/2017 33 £15.00
5 £300.00 07/04/2017 12/01/2018 33 £15.00
6 £800.00 30/01/2018 25/01/2019 52 £28.00
7 £800.00 25/01/2019 24/01/2020 52 £28.00Morses partial agreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 6 and 7. Morses
offered to settle the complaint in line with the adjudicators assessment.
But it disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans 3  5. In summary, it
doesnt feel Mr T had become persistently reliant on these loans for the following reasons:
Taking a third loan in 20 months isnt excessive
The increase in lending between loans 1  5 was small going from £200 to £300
Loans 1 and 2 were repaid early which didnt suggest any financial difficulties
Based on Mr Ts declared income and expenditure the loans looked affordable
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr T doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to
lend loans 1 and 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I
need to make a finding about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr T.
Morses has also accepted that something went wrong when loans 6 and 7 were granted,
and it has offered to put things right for Mr T in line with the adjudicators recommendations.
So like loans 1 and 2, these loans are no longer in dispute, but for completeness Ive
included what Morses need to do to put things right in the putting things right section at the
end of the decision.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
3 - 5.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ts income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
Loans 3 and 4
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 3 Mr T had taken three loans in around 20
months and he was asking a new loan either on the day the previous one was repaid or very
shortly afterwards. Which is why the adjudicator thought this loan (and future loans) should
be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Mr T had become reliant
on these loans. The loan amounts hadnt really increased significantly and there wasnt any
obvious repayment difficulties, indeed, Morses says loans 1 and 2 were repaid early. The
number of loans and time in debt, is in my view, not particularly concerning, at this point in
time. So, I dont agree with the adjudicator that Morses ought to have reasonably concluded
that these loans were unsustainable for Mr T.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Mr T had been almost
continuously indebted to Morses for 20 months, and he was returning for further credit,
extending his indebtedness for at least another 34 weeks. So, I dont think it was reasonable
for Morses to have relied on what Mr T declared to it about his income and expenditure.
Even though this information suggested Mr T had disposable income of around £120 per
week, Morses, in my view still needed to do more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ts actual financial position to
ensure loans 3 and 4 were affordable for him. This couldve been done in several ways, such
as asking for evidence of outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Mr Ts credit
report. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any
other information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Ts financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks but had it done so, it wouldve
likely discovered that Mr T couldnt afford these loans.
Mr T hasnt provided this Service with a copy of his bank statements or his credit report. So,
I dont know what further checks may have highlighted about his financial situation at the
time these loans were approved. So, without any further information from Mr T about his
living costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve seen if it had made better
checks.Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 3 and 4. Even considering what Mr T declared to Morses
for his income and expenditure, loans 3 and 4 appeared affordable. Im not minded therefore
to think Morses was wrong to have provided these loans.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Loan 5
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent
felt he need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Although, I accept, based on what Morses provided this
Service, that this loan wouldve looked affordable to it.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mr T, Morses also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr T. Having looked at the overall pattern of
Morsess lending history with Mr T, I agree with our adjudicator that at this point in time,
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because;
Mr T had taken out five loans over an approximately three and a half year period. I
think this was now a long time to be using this type of high cost credit.
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr T was not managing to repay his loans
sustainably. Mr T had taken out 5 loans in around 42 months and he had been
indebted to Morses for almost for the entire time. So Morses ought to have realised it
was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need
and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and his underlying
financial situation didnt seem to be improving.
By loan 5, Mr Ts weekly repayments had more than double compared to what he
way paying when he took loan 1. He started paying £7 per week but was now
committed to paying £15 per week. So, Mr Ts weekly repayments were increasing
which suggests that the loans werent sustainable for him and his borrowing didnt
significantly decrease over the lending relationship.
Mr T frequently took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid.
Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr T, on these occasions,
was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me,
this is indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable.
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 7 was
taken out over 5 years after Mr Ts first loan and it was one of the largest amounts he
had borrowed. Mr T had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to
Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr T has lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 5 to 7 and Morses should put things
right as set out below.Mr Ts representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and didnt have any 
further information or evidence for this Service to consider. 
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decisions. So I dont know what it thinks about the 
outcome I was proposing to reach.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T has accepted the findings I outlined in the provisional decision and Morses hasnt 
responded to the decision, I see no reason to depart from the from the findings I previously 
reached. I still think Morses ought to have realised by loan 5 that the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr T and it should put things right for him as Ive outlined below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr T from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr T loans 5 to 7.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third 
party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr T the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ts borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ts credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ts 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman