DRN-3953199
The complaint
Mr H complains that Brightside Insurance Services Limited unfairly cancelled his insurance 
policy, causing him considerable expense and inconvenience. 
What happened
Brightside is an insurance broker. On 17 June 2022 Mr H applied online through Brightside 
to insure his car. He included his partner on the policy as a named driver. The policy was 
due to start on 1 July 2022. Brightside issued policy documents to Mr H straight away, but 
asked him to provide some further documents for himself and for his partner by 10am on 
15 July.
On 6 July Mr H uploaded his own proof of no claims discount and online DVLA check onto 
Brightsides online portal. But he didnt upload the requested documents for his partner. By 
14 July Brightside had sent him three emails reminding him it needed them. It also sent him 
an SMS message on 14 July, explaining that the policy was at risk of cancellation due to 
non-receipt of validation documents. It explained that it needed the named drivers licence 
summary. It asked Mr H to send the information as soon as possible. And it said the 
deadline for these is 10am 15/07/2022 to prevent cancellation or call [phone number] for 
further assistance. 
On 14 July Mr H logged on to Brightsides portal and removed the named driver. He paid a 
total of £131.34 to make the change. This was made up of additional premium and a £35 
fee. An updated policy certificate was immediately accessible on the portal. But on 15 July 
Mr Hs policy was cancelled. 
Mr H says he was on holiday when the policy was cancelled, and only found out when he 
returned a few days later. He contacted Brightside to complain about the cancellation and he 
asked it to reinstate his policy. But Brightside told him the insurer wasnt willing to do this. 
Mr H says he was unable to take out insurance elsewhere for two weeks, as it cost 
significantly more, and he couldnt afford to take it out straight away. He says he lost income 
and incurred expense and inconvenience through being without a car for two weeks. 
Brightside said the cancellation markers had been removed from Mr Hs insurance record 
and wouldnt be visible to prospective insurers. But it apologised that Mr Hs policy had been 
cancelled even though hed removed the named driver. It said that the cancellation had gone 
ahead automatically because Mr H hadnt uploaded the documents and hadnt phoned it. It 
offered to waive the usual cancellation and mid-term adjustment fees. And it offered Mr H 
£25 by way of apology. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Brightsides response, and brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought that Mr H had been reasonable in assuming that having removed the 
named driver from the policy and paid the additional premium, his insurance would remain in 
place. He thought Brightside had been wrong to cancel the policy. And he said that since 
Mr H had had to pay more for an alternative policy due to Brightsides mistake in going 
ahead with the cancellation, it should pay him the difference between the cost of the policy 
he took out through Brightside and the policy he took out elsewhere once the original policy 
was cancelled. And he said Brightside should pay Mr H £100 by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.  
My provisional findings  
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Brightside on 6 January 2023. I said:
I acknowledge that Brightside says that even though Mr H was sent an updated insurance 
certificate, he wasnt sent any correspondence or confirmation that the validation was 
complete, or that the pending cancellation would no longer take place. It says that the 
removal of the named driver didnt automatically remove any validation concerns that it might 
have had, or stop any pending cancellation. And its pointed to the validation requests it sent 
to Mr H, in which it said: 
When weve received all of the outstanding documents we will send you an email 
confirming receipt and informing you of any further actions that may be required of 
you. 
But like our investigator, I consider that it was entirely reasonable of Mr H to assume that 
hed done all that was required and that his insurance would continue. Brightside had given 
him no indication that it required any more validation documents relating to Mr H himself. 
The only outstanding documents it had referred to on the several occasions it had sent him 
reminders related to his partner. 
I can fully understand why Mr H assumed that the threat of cancellation had gone once he 
removed his partner from the policy. And Brightside had said nothing to make clear that Mr H 
would need to contact it by phone if he wanted to make sure that the cancellation was 
prevented. Whats more, Brightside hasnt said anything to suggest that there was, in fact, 
any further validation it would have needed from Mr H even after his partner was removed 
from the policy. And even if there had been further information or evidence it needed about 
Mr Hs own driving record, I dont think it would have been fair to cancel the policy without 
first telling Mr H what that extra information was and giving him a reasonable deadline to 
provide it.  
I think its likely, on balance, that if Brightside had told Mr H specifically that the cancellation 
might still go ahead unless he phoned or emailed it, he would have done so, even though he 
was abroad. So like the investigator, I think it was unfair of Brightside to cancel Mr Hs policy.
But after the investigator sent out his view it emerged that the replacement policy, which 
Mr H took out was also through Brightside, using the same underwriter. And that policy was 
cancelled within the first couple of months. Brightside says that this was due to non-payment 
of the monthly premium instalment by Mr H. Its also provided evidence that although its true 
that the premium for the replacement policy was significantly higher, there were several 
significant differences in the details on which the replacement policy was based. For 
example, the value of the car was lower, there was no voluntary excess, and no additional 
driver was named. So the new policy wasnt a like for like replacement. Having carefully considered everything thats been provided, I think it was unfair of 
Brightside to cancel Mr Hs policy. And I think it should compensate him for the 
inconvenience he experienced as a result. But I havent seen evidence to persuade me that 
Mr H suffered financial loss as a result of the cancellation of the original policy.
So my provisional decision was that the complaint should be upheld. And I said that to put 
things right, in addition to waiving the usual administration and cancellation fees, as it had 
offered to do, Brightside should pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Further submissions
Brightside told us that it accepted my provisional decision. But Mr H thought Brightside 
should do more to put things right. Hes provided a copy of an invoice for £320 which he 
says was for recovery of his car. And hes explained that due to Brightside cancelling the 
policy, he wasnt insured to drive his car home from holiday. He says he settled the invoice 
in cash.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive borne in mind that Mr H has told us that he had to pay to have his car recovered, as the 
cancellation of his policy meant that he wasnt insured to drive. I remain of the view that it 
was unfair of Brightside to cancel Mr Hs policy. And I recognise that the cancellation caused 
him inconvenience. But I think its fair to expect a consumer to take reasonable steps to keep 
their loss to a minimum. 
In this case, my view is that Mr H could have kept his loss to a minimum by using the money 
to take out a new insurance policy, rather than paying a large sum of money to a recovery 
agent. I acknowledge that £320 might not have been enough to pay for a whole years 
premium. But he could have paid for a new policy by instalments. That would have allowed 
Mr H to drive the car home himself. 
I remain of the view that, Brightside acted unfairly when it cancelled Mr Hs policy. And I 
accept that he suffered inconvenience as a result. But I consider the £100 compensation that 
I referred to in my provisional decision is appropriate to reflect this. And I dont consider it 
would be fair to require Brightside to reimburse Mr H for the cost of recovering his car, or for 
any other financial loss. So my view about what Brightside should do to put things right 
remains unchanged.
Putting things right 
To put things right, in addition to waving the usual administration and cancellation fees, as it 
has offered to do, Brightside should pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman