DRN-3387388
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc wont reimburse money he lost as a result of 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M received what he thought was an email from a friend about an investment opportunity. 
He had been interested in cryptocurrency and believed this to be a good starting place and 
he knew of other people doing something similar. He saw some negative and positive 
reviews about the trader  Olympia Markets, later changed to Olympius Global.
He called the number in the email and was told he would be called a short time later. He was 
given a four-digit security number and was specifically told this was used to prevent scams. 
This led Mr M to believe it was legitimate. He started off with a small investment which 
increased over time. By his third payment, he was asked to download Anydesk and asked to 
apply for internet banking.
Around two weeks into the investment opportunity Mr M discovered his friend hadnt sent the 
initial email. But as he was already making a profit, and had been presented with an 
investment plan, he continued to invest. Mr M was also persuaded to take out a loan of 
£45,000 to place into his investment. Although the trader completed the loan application on 
Mr Ms behalf, he did confirm to Bank of Scotland the borrowing was for home 
improvements.
The transactions made are set out in the table below.
Date Type Merchant Amount
07/10/2019 Debit card SQPAY £88.72
10/10/2019 Debit card XCHANGEPRO+ £1,862.97
12/10/2019 Debit card XCHANGEPRO+ £7,160.53
22/10/2019 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £2.00
29/10/2019 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £21,000
21/11/2019 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £20,050
22/01/2020 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £25,000
23/01/2020 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £2,000
07/02/2020 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £24,999
07/02/2020 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £21,450
£123,613.22
It was after the loan funds were invested that things started to go wrong, and losses were 
incurred. The trader suggested Mr M borrow more  another £50,000  and it was at this 
point he became suspicious and contacted the bank. The bank strongly advised Mr M 
against having any further contact with the trader informing him that hed been the victim of 
a scam.
Bank of Scotland declined to raise a chargeback for the transactions, and it said they didnt 
meet the criteria. It also declined to provide any refund under the Lending Standard Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as it wasnt persuaded Mr M had taken 
reasonable care to confirm who he was paying was genuine. It said the faster payments 
likely triggered a warning but accepts it cant be sure Mr M would have seen them. It did 
agree to write off the loan.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that under the CRM Bank of Scotland ought 
to refund customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited 
circumstances; and he didnt think those circumstances applied here. He also found that the 
bank ought to have intervened on the final payment made by debit card as the transaction 
was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr M. So he asked Bank of Scotland to refund all 
transactions from the final debit card payment less the loan amount that had already been 
written off (and less a credit) and to add 8% simple interest to that sum.
Bank of Scotland never responded to the view, nor the notification it was being referred to an 
ombudsman. Im satisfied the bank has been provided with sufficient opportunity to respond 
and so its now appropriate for the case to reach this stage.
Bank of Scotland accepted my provisional decision. Mr M provided a copy of the investment 
plan he was provided by the trader and said he was going to try and obtain a copy of the 
email purportedly sent by his friend. The investigator explained they didnt think this was 
necessary given the findings in the provisional decision about what happened after it was 
sent. Mr M accepted that and the outcome reached. 
I thank Mr M for going to the trouble of providing the investment plan. But Im not persuaded 
this evidence means I should alter my provisional outcome or that its no longer fair. As Ive 
not been persuaded to alter my provisional decision, I make it final below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.These transactions need to be dealt with in two parts; those made by debit card and the 
others by faster payment. Thats because different considerations apply to the different types 
of payment.
The card payments
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr M has been the victim of a scam. The 
payments made to SQPAY and XCHANGEPRO+ were made by Mr M using his card and 
associated security credentials. I therefore conclude these were authorised payments  for 
which Mr M is liable unless there is evidence the bank could and should reasonably have 
done more to protect him, which issue I now turn to.
Mr M made three payments using his card and so I have considered whether these ought to 
have triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether he 
was a victim of a scam and intervened. I have considered the operation of Mr Ms account in 
the preceding months. I think it fair to say Mr Ms first two debit card payments werent so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that I think the bank ought to have intervened. It appears the 
bank did intervene at least to some degree with the first payment, although we havent been 
provided with detail. But given the very low monetary value of the transaction it was likely 
seeking confirmation the transaction had been carried out by him. I dont consider the bank 
ought to have done more than that.
But the third payment of £7,160.53 was substantially higher than other usage on the 
account. And it was the second payment in a matter of days to a new payee which was a 
cryptocurrency exchange. Im persuaded the close proximity, the substantial increase in 
value and that this was only the second payment to this payee ought to have triggered the 
banks systems and paused the payment pending further intervention  such as making 
enquiries or giving a scam warning.
Had the bank asked appropriate probing questions, Ive no reason to doubt that Mr M would 
have explained what he was doing. Like the investigator, I accept Bank of Scotland had no 
duty to protect Mr M from a poor investment choice. But it could have provided information 
about the steps a customer can take, to ensure as far as is reasonably possible, that they 
are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised by the 
regulator. And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that was in the 
public domain about the high risks associated with cryptocurrency trading, just as it did when 
Mr M contacted it to report the scam. Had it indicated the potential for fraud and provided Mr 
M with a potential scam warning, Im satisfied he would have been concerned enough to 
have stopped, and he likely would have heeded the on-line reviews which had referred to 
Olympia Markets being a scammer.
Im therefore minded to ask Bank of Scotland to reimburse the final debit card transaction of
£7,160.53.
The faster payments
I have considered whether Bank of Scotland ought to have reimbursed Mr M under the 
provisions of the CRM, and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from potential 
financial harm from fraud. The CRM also places a level of care on customers such as Mr M, 
I have considered whether he met this. The CRM isnt applicable to card payments.
The CRM
The CRM requires payment services providers to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. It is for Bank of Scotland to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care 
under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here.
Bank of Scotland has said the size of the payments would likely have triggered a warning 
being provided but it no longer has a log of that. But it has also acknowledged that in the 
process of allowing the trader access to his computer to the make the payments and 
trades, Mr M is unlikely to have seen any warnings. I agree with that.
So my consideration is in relation to whether Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM, Bank of Scotland can choose not to reimburse Mr M if it doesnt believe he 
took the requisite care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business he was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Mr M to believe that he was paying a legitimate business for genuine goods or 
services, he had to have a reasonable basis for belief; that needs to be in relation to each 
payment made. Its here I disagree with the some of the investigators findings.
Mr M came across the trader after being sent an email from a friend. I understand the email 
contained a video of a well-known breakfast television show speaking to someone about 
investing in cryptocurrency. It was following the receipt of this email and Mr C providing his 
contact number, that he was given a four-digit code for security reasons. I can understand 
why this, along with the apparent involvement of a television programme, would have led to 
an air of authenticity.
However, about two weeks after the receipt of the email (around 21 October 2019), Mr M 
discovered his friend actually hadnt sent it to him. I think this ought to have raised enough 
suspicions for Mr M to have questioned whether he was paying a legitimate person or 
business. At that point he would have known that someone had lied by pretending to be his 
friend and had somehow gained his email address to provide a investment opportunity. He 
ought to have questioned the lie and therefore whether the investment opportunity was 
legitimate. Im not persuaded seeking out reviews then or relying on the previous reading of 
both good and bad reviews, is taking a sufficient level of care to ensure he had a reasonable 
basis for belief.
I also understand that the final two payments were made as a result of a loan being taken 
out with Bank of Scotland. I accept what Mr M says when he explains the loan application 
was actually completed by the trader when he had access to Mr Ms on-line banking. But 
Im also aware that Mr M needed to call the bank to approve the loan application and he was 
told to say the loan was for home improvements, which he did. But that wasnt correct, Mr M 
had been asked to lie about the purpose of the loan by the trader. I think this ought to have 
also alerted Mr M to something being wrong. If this had been a legitimate investment 
opportunity, then why would he need to lie to his bank about it? This simply isnt the type of 
instruction a legitimate person or business would ask its customer to do. Im not aware that 
Mr M questioned this or satisfied himself that all was well.Under the CRM where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the 
customer hasnt met the requisite level of care, each party must accept equal responsibility. 
In these situations the CRM requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the 
losses.
I am satisfied that would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Whilst Bank 
of Scotland has accepted Mr M wouldnt have seen a warning, effective or otherwise, Mr M 
hasnt met the requisite level of case to ensure he was paying a legitimate business for 
genuine services. He gave little time or attention to the warning signs and gave credence to 
instructions that required him to lie to his own bank. In making this award, its also fair I take 
into account that Bank of Scotland has already agreed to write off the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require 
Bank of Scotland plc to:
reimburse the final debit card transaction of £7,160.53. It should also add 8% 
simple interest per annum to that sum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and
reimburse 50% of the faster payments, less the loan amount already written 
off and less £169.61 credit he received, totalling £33,856.39. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date it declined to reimburse Mr M 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman