DRN-3786392
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr B was contacted by a scammer impersonating his friend. They convinced 
him to buy £200 worth of vouchers at a supermarket by debit card, and give them the codes.
After realising hed been scammed, Mr B reported the matter to HSBC. He says the initial 
advisor gave him the impression that they would get him his money back.
HSBC explained they couldnt get Mr B a refund, as hed authorised the payment to the 
supermarket himself, and had received the vouchers hed paid for. They did offer him £75 
compensation for potentially giving him the wrong impression.
Our investigator explained there wasnt much more HSBC could do. They felt the offer of 
compensation was fair. Mr B asked for his case to be looked into further, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr B fell victim to a scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate 
why he feels that his money should be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the 
scammer whos primarily responsible for what happened, and its the scammer who really 
owes Mr B his money back. But I can only consider what HSBC did. Having carefully 
considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold HSBC liable 
for Mr Bs loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the payment. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations, Mr B is responsible for the payments he makes in the first instance. Further, 
broadly speaking, HSBC had an obligation to follow his instructions  the starting position in 
law is that banks are expected to process payments that their customer authorises.
Ive thought about whether HSBC should have flagged or blocked the payment. HSBC 
should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or scams, 
to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between identifying 
and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal disruption 
to legitimate payments. Here, I dont think the payment involved was so unusual or out of 
character that HSBC needed to intervene. For example, it was only one payment rather than 
multiple rapid ones, it was not nearly large enough that Id expect the amount to be flagged, 
and it went to an established UK merchant who Mr B had used many times before.
Next, Ive considered what HSBC did to try to recover Mr Bs money after he told them about 
the scam. While there are methods for trying to recover funds lost to scams, they generally 
only apply to certain types of payments, like bank transfers  but they dont apply to card 
payments. And this payment was made by debit card. So HSBC couldnt recover the money 
that way.
Banks can try to recover card payments through a chargeback, but that would not have 
worked here. Chargebacks can only be made for certain reasons, but none of those reasons 
applied in Mr Bs case. For example, chargebacks can be made if a payment is unauthorised 
 but here, Mr B authorised the purchase. Or they can be made if the goods are not provided 
 but here, Mr B was provided with the vouchers he bought. Its just that he passed on the 
codes to someone else. And Im afraid that situation is not covered by the chargeback 
scheme.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr B, I dont think HSBC can be held 
responsible for his loss. As our investigator said, unfortunately there wasnt anything HSBC 
could really do to get Mr Bs money back in this case. And so I cant fairly tell HSBC to 
refund Mr Bs money.
Mr B explained that HSBC initially gave him the impression theyd get his money back. The 
recording of that call isnt available anymore, so I cant be sure exactly what was said. But 
even if I accept that the conversation happened the way Mr B said it did, HSBC wouldnt 
then become responsible for Mr Bs payment just because their advisor gave him the wrong 
impression afterwards. The fact remains that HSBC were not responsible for Mr Bs loss 
here, and giving him the wrong impression about recovering the money would not mean that 
they become responsible.
Instead, when a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. When it comes to the amounts, its worth 
bearing in mind that were not here to issue fines or punish businesses. Here, I understand 
that the advisor may have caused Mr B some frustration and disappointment by giving him 
the wrong impression. Looking at our guidelines for compensation relative to what happened 
in this case, I think HSBCs offer of £75 is fair to put right the upset caused there.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc need to refund Mr Bs 
payment, and I think theyve already offered fair compensation. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
pay Mr B the £75 compensation if theyve not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman