DRN-3950439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain through their representative that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) 
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their complaint under Sections 75 or 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased in February 
2003.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a vacation club holiday product through C in February 2003, with the 
aid of a point-of-sale loan provided by FHF. They later complained that the product had been 
misrepresented to them and they had been treated unfairly during the sales process and 
made claims under s75 and s140A CCA to FHF.
FHF said that it had no liability for the claim, and Mr and Mrs H had enjoyed over 70 weeks 
of holidays using the holiday product. They had traded in the product for a fractional 
timeshare in 2014, which does not form part of the claim.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that any claim under 
s75 would have been out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative indicated that they didnt agree but their reasons for 
disagreeing related to a complaint about fractional timeshare, not part of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision. So far as the claim under s75 CCA was concerned, I said 
that the claim was made outside the limitation period set out in the LA and as FHF would 
have a defence to any claim under s75 because of the LA, I thought it reasonable that it 
wont consider the claim.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns solely the claim made under s75CCA. My provisional findings were 
as follows:
misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under Section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2012] that a 
claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. 
So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr and Mrs H made a like claim against C under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation 
period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. This means that 
they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim. The 
date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs H entered into the 
purchase and/or credit agreements, i.e. any misrepresentations would have been made 
before the contract was signed. That was in February 2003. They didnt assert a claim to 
FHF until March 2018. I have to take the law into account and as FHF would have a defence 
to any claim under s75 because of the LA, I think it reasonable that it wont consider the 
claim.
Neither party has responded to my provisional findings, and I remain persuaded by them. So 
those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman