DRN-3451720
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr F had generated a virtual debit card for use with online transactions which was held 
within the Revolut app. Mr F used his phone to access the app. Whilst out shopping Mr F 
explained that he noticed a large payment had been made to an online merchant based 
overseas that he didnt recognise. The payment was made using the virtual debit card.
Mr F also noticed use of the virtual card to a UK website had been made just before the 
large transaction, but this was for £0.00 and was reverted. This type of transaction is 
referred to as a ghost transaction.
Mr F contacted Revolut about the unrecognised transaction and asked them to investigate it 
and provide a refund. Mr F completed a request which he sent to Revolut.
Revolut looked into the transaction and decided they couldnt refund Mr F, nor could they 
proceed with a Chargeback request because they believed Mr F was responsible for 
authorising the transaction. A complaint was raised at the same time Mr F brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Revolut investigated the complaint and maintained their position and declined to refund Mr 
F. His complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for information from 
both of the parties. Mr F explained that hed never used this merchant overseas and sent 
information that the website was no longer accessible. He said that hed also never used the 
UK merchant responsible for the ghost transaction either. Mr F believed that Revolut had 
failed him because they had opportunity to stop the payment because it was in a pending 
state when he informed them about it. He also thought that Revolut should have done more 
to highlight these unusual payments on his account. Mr F explained how the UK merchant 
with the ghost transaction had confirmed the payment was fraudulent.
Revolut provided information about the transaction including how virtual cards worked. Our 
investigator considered that it was reasonable for Revolut to hold Mr F liable for the disputed 
transaction and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr F disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint. Mr F 
believed that the reason for the disputed transactions may be the result of a hack. He 
reiterated his earlier concerns about Revoluts performance when protecting his account.
Mr Fs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Revolut can hold Mr F liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Revolut can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr F authorised the 
transactions, but Revolut cannot say that the use of the virtual card details conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Revolut can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Fs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transaction. It shows that the transaction was authenticated using the payment tools issued 
to Mr F.
Because the transaction was properly authenticated by the payment tools issued to Mr F, Im 
satisfied that Revolut had the appropriate instructions with which to carry out the payment. 
But, Ill need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show that Mr F 
consented to the transactions.
Revolut have explained that the virtual card is a means to help protect from unauthorised 
use when used to make purchases online. The card details are generated and can only be 
used for one substantive transaction before automatically cancelling itself. The actual details 
are only available within the app of the user  here thats Mr F. Revolut staff are unable to 
see the complete number of the card. The disputed transaction was made using the details 
from the card that was then manually entered into the merchants payment systems.
Mr F has confirmed that the phone he uses with the app has security to protect unauthorised 
access and the app requires additional security steps before being able to see the virtual 
card details. So, its difficult to see how anyone else could obtain those details without 
access to the phone and information related to the security information needed to open the 
app. I appreciate Mr F has speculated that the details were obtained as the result of a hack 
on Revoluts systems, but I dont think thats the explanation here. Revolut investigated the 
use of Mr Fs account and couldnt find any unauthorised access to it.
Because the virtual card has such restricted access to it and the details are only available in 
the app, I think its more likely than not that Mr F was responsible for using those details as I 
cant see any other plausible way for the actual card details to be obtained.
Mr F was critical of how Revolut protected his account and thought the two uses of the card 
were unusual, including the amount of the substantive disputed transaction. Having looked 
at Mr Fs account, he kept it funded using transfers from another account (which is a typical 
way for such accounts to be used)  and when the disputed transaction was made, there 
were funds available in it. I dont think the disputed transaction was particularly unusual as 
there had been an even larger purchase made less than a week earlier from the account. I 
also noted there were several similar ghost transactions on the account with different 
suppliers, so the appearance of another one doesnt stand out as unusual.
When Mr F notified Revolut about the disputed transaction, it was showing as pending and 
he thought it was possible to stop the payment. When pending appears it means the 
payment process has started and is still being processed. Unfortunately, it doesnt mean that 
it can be stopped at that point. Once the authorisation process is initiated (by using the 
virtual card details in a payment system), the payment cannot be interrupted. I realise Mr F 
thought Revolut failed to act on it, but they werent able to do anything about it  even 
though it appeared to still be pending.
ChargebackChargebacks are part of the payment processors system and its not a right that can be 
insisted upon. But, we would expect a Chargeback request to be made if there was a 
reasonable chance of success. After looking into the circumstances, Revolut decided that 
they couldnt use it to challenge the payment on Mr Fs behalf. I think it was reasonable for 
them not to use the Chargeback system based on their evaluation of the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman