DRN-3879758
The complaint
Mr S has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with NewDay (trading as Aqua) in April 2018. His credit 
limit was £250. The limit was never increased.
 
Mr S suggests that NewDay shouldnt have allowed him to open an account. Mr S says he 
had zero income and had a gambling problem which had caused him financial difficulties. 
He says if NewDay had made proportionate and appropriate checks on his circumstances it 
wouldnt have lent to him. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld. They thought that on 
the evidence available NewDay had not done anything wrong. 
Mr S disagreed and provided some more evidence, but this didnt change our adjudicators 
view. As Mr S disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ss complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Ss income, the total amount Mr S borrowed, and the length of time Mr S 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mr S opened his account NewDay conducted a creditworthiness assessment. This 
included a review of information from credit reference agencies and information provided by 
Mr S about his income and circumstances. NewDay told us there were no signs of financial 
difficulties based on the checks it did. 
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances. And when Ive reviewed the 
checks I think they showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable for Mr S. While the 
information supplied by the credit reference agency showed that Mr S had defaulted on 
another credit agreement nearly five years earlier, there was nothing to suggest he was 
experiencing difficulties at the time of application. He had about £2,600 in active debt 
elsewhere. There were no signs of current arrears, CCJs, payday loans or bankruptcy. Mr 
Ss income indicated hed likely have enough disposable income to meet his repayments. 
The opening limit was low at £250 and so the monthly repayments would have also been 
low. So, on the information available, I dont think NewDay acted irresponsibly when it 
approved the credit card.
Mr S has provided evidence of the financial difficulties he was in at the time which he says is 
evidence NewDay shouldnt have lent to him. This includes a letter from solicitors regarding 
non-payment of a catalogue shopping account. However, this was from August 2019 which 
is 18 months after he opened the credit card complained of. Similarly, Mr S has supplied 
evidence that he defaulted on his current account in August 2018. Again, this was six 
months after he took out the credit card, so it wasnt something NewDay would have seen 
when it did its checks.
Mr S also provided evidence that he was taken to court about another debt in May 2017  
about nine months before he took out the credit card. Its not clear that any order was made 
as a result of that debt. I would ordinarily expect to see this in a credit report if it hadnt been 
settled informally. Mr S explains that some of his debts were removed from his credit file 
(presumably as a result of upheld complaints about them) but I dont know when this was, so 
I cant say that NewDay ought to have seen this when it did its own checks. A copy of Mr Ss 
credit file which includes data from before he took out the credit card does not show anything 
of concern in the months leading up to him taking the credit. 
Although I dont doubt that Mr S got into financial difficultly I cant fairly say that NewDays 
checks werent appropriate or proportionate or that its decision to lend to Mr S wasnt fair.  
So, I cant fairly say NewDay did anything wrong or that Mr S lost out as a result of anything 
NewDay might have done wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It follows that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, does not need 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman