DRN-3615373
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs K complains that she was the victim of a scam involving five online payments using her 
Barclays VISA debit card linked to her current account. She made payments totalling 
£9893.32 to a cryptocurrency exchange company between 11 December 2020 and 15 
December 2020. After Mrs Ks money was converted into cryptocurrency, it was then sent to 
a wallet which she believed was held with a company Ill refer to as D.
When Mrs K realised shed been the victim of a scam, she asked Barclays to either refund 
the money shed lost or to process chargeback claims under VISAs Chargeback Scheme. 
She told Barclays it should have made additional checks before processing the payments to 
help protect her from financial harm. She said the pattern and amounts involved were 
significantly higher than her usual spending, involving multiple transfers on a single day to a 
new payee and that a conversation with Barclays couldve exposed the scam. She said she 
rarely made payments to trading institutions and the payments should have flagged up as 
suspicious or unusual. Further, had Barclays asked for more information, it would have 
realized she wasnt given any investment brochures or information.
Barclays told Mrs K its attempt to recover her money was unsuccessful and there was 
nothing further it could do. Mrs K wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service 
explaining shed been the victim of a sophisticated scam. She said the scammers had taken 
advantage of her inexperience and that Barclays should put things right by refunding the 
money shed lost. She said shed been affected personally, emotionally, and financially.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part and that Barclays should 
refund Mrs K the payment she made on 15 December 2020 for £4,534.87, less 25% for 
contributory negligence. She was satisfied the payment was unusual as it was the third 
consecutive payment Mrs K had made that day, with the transaction values increasing each 
time and using over 90% of the available funds. She was also satisfied that if Barclays had 
contacted Mrs K to ask questions about the payments she would probably have shared 
details about the reason for the payment and as there was information in the public domain 
about the very high risks associated with crypto trading, she might have decided not to make 
the payment. But she felt Mrs K should share some blame for the loss as she didnt conduct 
any independent research before agreeing to pay the money. 
She explained she didnt think Barclays needed to refund the other three payments because 
they were of low value, they werent unusual, and they fell within the usual spending pattern 
for Mrs Ks account. The payments were also made to a genuine merchant who provided 
cryptocurrency. She finally said chargeback claims would be unsuccessful because the 
payments were made to a genuine merchant who had provided their services to Mrs K.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied and so she asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She has said that while the first four payments were for lower amounts, they 
were unusual because they were to a new payee made on three consecutive days and 
therefore Barclays should have raised additional questions. She also said Barclays 
shouldve raised a chargeback request under the VISA Chargeback Scheme.
Barclays added that it didnt think a conversation would have prevented the transactions 
from taking place and that the involvement of a broker wouldnt have made it more likely to 
conclude it was a scam especially as there were no warnings against the cryptocurrency 
exchange company on the FCA Register.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs K didnt intend the money to go to scammers, she did authorise the disputed 
payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Mrs K has lost £9893.32 in payments that she made via a cryptocurrency exchange 
company. From the evidence Ive seen, the payments went to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company and were subsequently exchanged for crypto and sent onto a wallet Mrs 
K believed was in her name with D. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and 
therefore the extent of what we would expect Barclays to have done to protect Mrs K is 
restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual 
that Barclays ought to have intervened to warn Mrs K when she tried to make the payments. 
Barclays, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and 
be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Barclays has confirmed 
the payments didnt flag as suspicious on its system. Ive considered the nature of the 
payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mrs K 
normally ran her account and I agree with our investigator that the first four payments of 
£839.11, £2,529.14, 829.94 and £1,160.26 were not unusual. I appreciate there were four 
separate payments made on three consecutive days but given the amounts were not 
unusually large and that they were made to a legitimate company, Im not persuaded there 
was any obligation on Barclays to intervene or prevent the payments. So, I dont think it 
needs to refund them.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mrs K).
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Barclays is bound by the card scheme operators 
(Visa in this case) rules. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the 
payer to a refund through the chargeback scheme. Barclays said it did raise a chargeback claim but for the claim to be successful, Mrs K would have needed to show the 
cryptocurrency exchange company didnt provide the cryptocurrency and that her loss arose 
from those transactions, which it did not. Im satisfied therefore that Barclays conclusion that 
the chargeback claim would be unsuccessful was reasonable.
The fifth payment
The fifth and final payment of £4534.87 was significantly higher than the earlier payments 
and Im satisfied that in the context of other payments Mrs K made from her account, it was 
unusual, especially as she had made two other payments to the same account earlier that 
day. Because of this, I think Mrs K shouldve been given a warning by Barclays when she 
tried to make this payment.
I accept its not for this service to instruct which checks Barclays should do or the questions 
it should ask. But, given the size of this payment, how unusual it was and that it was going to 
a cryptocurrency provider, I think in these circumstances it would be reasonable to expect 
these additional checks to include questions. Those questions could have included the 
purpose of the payment, how Mrs K had come into contact with the cryptocurrency 
exchange, whether she was under pressure to pay, and whether anyone (like a broker) was 
helping her in the background.
If it had asked these questions, I think Barclays wouldve found out that D was in the 
background helping Mrs K and they were trading her money. Shed likely have also 
explained that she had not done any research into D. On finding this out, I think Barclays 
should then have warned Mrs K about the increase of scams of this type in recent years. I 
think it could have explained its experience, particularly involving brokers that can provide 
fake wallets and trading accounts that make it seem like the consumer is winning and would 
eventually not allow them to withdraw their funds. I also think Barclays could have explained 
the importance of checking D was legitimate and the risks of sending money in this way. 
As Barclays is a financial business and Mrs K wasnt an experienced investor, I think 
Barclays warnings would have at least led her to investigate D and cryptocurrency scams 
further. If shed done that, the warnings about cryptocurrency scams published by the FCA 
and Action Fraud would have become apparent and she most likely wouldnt have made that 
payment. I accept there were no warnings about D on the FCA register but if Barclays had 
asked Mrs K further questions before processing the payment, as I think it should have, I 
dont think Mrs K would have lost the money from that payment.
Ive thought about whether Mrs K should bear some responsibility for her loss and I think she 
should. This was a sophisticated scam, but Mrs K didnt undertake any checks into D before 
she made the payments. So, I agree with our investigator that the money Barclays should 
refund should be reduced by 25% for contributory negligence.
The refund should include a payment of 8% simple interest on the refunded payments from 
the date they were paid until the date they are refunded. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part. My decision is that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
 Refund Mrs K the £4534.87 payment less 25% for contributory negligence.
  Pay 8% simple interest per year on the refund, from the time of the payment until the time 
it is refunded HM Revenue & Customs may require Barclays to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mrs K. 
If it does, and if Mrs K requests it, Barclays should provide her with a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman