DRN-2757334
The complaint
Mr L complains about a delay in applying funds to his Standard Life Self Investor account, 
operated by Elevate Portfolio Services Limited. He says Elevates actions in being ten days 
late meant he missed out on a financial gain of over £1,500. Further, he says when the cash 
was finally applied to his account, it was used to purchase units in an incorrectly coded fund.    
What happened
Mr L holds a Standard Life Self Investor investment ISA. On 6 April 2020, he paid a total of 
£20,000 (two transactions of £10,000 each) using a Visa debit card to Elevate. Mr L 
explained he intended to keep £500 as cash with the remainder invested in his ISA. 
Mr L says despite the cash leaving his account that same day, Elevate didnt process it until 
16 April 2020. On that day, he discovered it had been used to purchase units within the 
wrong fund  the code used was one letter different. So, Mr L issued a complaint that day.  
Elevate replied to the complaint in May 2020. It apologised, and explained that as a result of 
a platform issue Mr Ls payment did not reach his Self Investor account as quickly as it 
should have done. However, Mr L had not keyed in any instructions to Elevates payment 
wizard as he had done previously. The investment was therefore directed to cash, and it was 
only after Mr L called Elevate on 9 April 2020 that he made trades on his account that day. 
It further confirmed that though Mr L said Elevate had caused him a ten-day delay, this 
wasnt accurate. He had keyed in his trades at 8:30pm on 9 April 2020. The next trading 
point from that date would have been midday on 14 April 2020, as that was the next working 
day following two public holidays. The trades then completed as expected on 16 April 2020, 
as was the working timescale for the particular fund.  
Finally, it said the keying error had been caused by Mr L  he had typed in the relevant fund 
code and Elevate had followed his instructions as required. However, it remained the case 
that Elevate could not compensate Mr L for the loss of opportunity to invest his funds as at 6 
April 2020 because no investment instructions were linked to his payments made that day. It 
could not evidence when he would have chosen to invest, and whilst there was a delay in 
applying the cash to Mr Ls account, there wasnt a delay in terms of a loss on a particular 
trade.  
In respect of the initial delay and customer service failings after the complaint had been 
raised, Elevate proposed to pay Mr L £100 to reflect the inconvenience he had suffered. It 
confirmed it would send this sum to his nominated bank account. 
Mr L remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. He said to resolve his 
complaint, Elevate ought to cancel his holdings in the mistaken fund  he did not ask to be 
placed into that fund and the mistake was made by Elevate. Further, he said if matters had 
been actioned as they should on 6 April 2020, hed have been able to purchase 14306.68 
units in the correct fund. He said it was simply untrue on Elevates part to suggest he 
wouldnt have invested the funds as soon as he could once they were applied to his account 
 he had logged in several times before 9 April 2020 to do just that.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. She said, in 
summary that the £100 offered to Mr L was reasonable compensation for the two or three 
day delay in applying the cash funds to his account. In respect of the potential losses Mr L 
said he had suffered, she did not agree that a comparison to the correct fund should have 
been made. 
Firstly, Elevate wasnt responsible for the incorrect fund being keyed on 9 April 2020. 
Secondly, without payment instructions Elevate could not have ascertained Mr Ls intent to 
purchase the units in the correct fund on either 6 or 7 April (after the relevant cut off). She 
felt it would be unfair to ask Elevate to reimburse the difference in the value of the funds 
when the fund selection was made by Mr L. Elevate had reasonably offered compensation 
for the delay and she didnt think anything further should be done.  
Mr L said he disagreed. He made a number of further points. In summary, he said:
he had substantial evidence to show that in 95% of cases (just one in 20 transactions 
over seven years) he had placed his instruction to invest on the same day the cash 
was applied to his account;
he would not have had to await the bank holidays but for Elevates error;
there was a rise in the fund value between 7 April and 15 April  and he missed out 
on this, which cost him over £1,500 as previously stated;
on the call of 9 April 2020 he did not decline to complain or act at that time, he didnt 
know the unit price so he agreed to wait and see what the unit price was when the 
trade was made  as he might not have suffered any loss;
trades are usually completed within one working day of the instruction  and this 
eventually took two days (14 to 16 April 2020);
he didnt accept the £100 compensation as resolving the matter  it was merely sent 
to his account;
if Elevate accepts it caused a delay, then it needs to calculate the loss in the ability to 
invest as well as compensation for the upset;
on 7 and 8 April there was still a possibility the unit value could fall so he did not 
know if he would be out of pocket until the trade completed, and thereafter he 
complained right away;
he could see from his account that the money wasnt missing, it just wasnt cleared 
for use so he didnt see this as an emergency at the time, especially with everything 
else that was going on given the outbreak of the global pandemic;
he feels hindsight should not be used to decide the complaint and the investigator 
should put herself in his shoes to see what was reasonable at the time;
in his view the investigator should conclude it was 95% likely that he would have 
placed a trade on 7 April 2020 if the delay had not been caused by Elevate;
there was not a lack of desire on his part to make a trade on those days, it was 
simply not possible because of Elevates actions;
even taking the later date of 7 April (to 15 April) there is a shortfall of 592.319 units 
(in the fund that should have been used but for the error);
he has since spoken to Elevate in June 2021 as another trade hadnt gone through 
and a customer service adviser admitted some debit card payments are still being 
delayed and this matter has been going on for over a year. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view and so Mr L asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman.  
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision., Though this will be disappointing for Mr L, I am of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. Ill explain my conclusions below.  
I accept that Mr Ls previous experience with his Self Investor account is that funds are 
credited the same day. I can therefore understand why Mr L would have had a reasonable 
expectation that his funds would be available sooner than 9 April 2020.  
In fact, it was not until Elevate placed a call to Mr L of that date that he became aware that 
Elevate was having to manually match the deposit, as it had not cleared on its systems  this 
was due to a CyberSource issue. That is an online payment system that has built in 
measures for fraud and security.  
Ordinarily, this service would not look to interfere in how a business may operate its 
systems, providing there is a legitimate reason for doing so. That is because we are not a 
regulator  that remit falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. If the CyberSource issue 
necessitated a delay in applying cash to an individuals Self Investor account, that isnt 
necessarily unreasonable. The reason it caused an issue here is it had never happened 
before, and Mr L did not know this was a possibility. Elevate should have told him of the 
issue, as it was known to it.  
I can see that the delay was not only concerning for Mr L as he hadnt experienced issues of 
this nature before, but that it impacted his decision to then undertake trades  because this 
could not happen until the next possible working day after the Easter bank holiday, due to 
the time of evening they were keyed in on 9 April 2020, after the relevant trading cut off time.  
Nonetheless, I believe the compensation already paid to Mr L for this disappointment was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and within keeping with the types of award this service 
makes in the event of disappointment, upset, distress and inconvenience.   
I recognise that Mr L believes he has suffered further losses  specifically the inability to 
trade from 7 April 2020 to 16 April 2020 when the chosen funds keyed in on 9 April were 
confirmed as purchased units.  
However, I disagree. Elevate takes the view that Mr Ls failure to upload an instruction with 
the cash payments of 6 April 2020 (when he had done so on other occasions at the time of 
deposit) shows that it cannot be said with certainty when Mr L intended to undertake a trade. 
Mr Ls evidence is that in 19 or 20 previous occasions he had undertaken a trade on the 
same day the cash was available on his investment account. 
I recognise the arguments from both parties and I do not doubt Mr Ls confirmation of his 
specific investment history. However, for me to set out that Elevates actions or inactions 
warrant an award to Mr L, I would have to determine that in taking two further days to apply 
the cash transfer to Mr Ls account, a demonstrable loss was caused to him. And I cannot 
reasonably conclude that.  
The trade Mr L undertook on 9 April 2020 was for units in the fund JMLR.LN. However, Mr L 
says Elevate made a mistake and the cash should have been used to buy units at a different 
price in the fund JMLS.LN  a fund he had invested in previously. I dont believe that is the 
likely version of events. The trade was keyed in by Mr L without intervention from Elevate 
and pushed through its systems with the code he used  and its shown us evidence of that. So, notwithstanding the two day delay from Elevate (which I have acknowledged pushed Mr 
L back because of public holidays), Mr L would otherwise have given the instruction for the 
incorrect fund. The loss Mr L has calculated is for the fund he should have gone into but for 
the mistake. But that isnt something I can hold Elevate liable for. And therefore a loss 
calculation cant flow from the event of the delay in the fund Mr L wanted but did not choose.  
I recognise it could arguably be said that Mr L could have an ascertainable loss in the value 
of the wrong fund for the delay from 6/7 April to 9 April. However, as I have said above, I do 
not think that compensation flows from the delay itself  as Elevate couldnt prevent it. What 
Elevate could, and should, have done is explained to Mr L the relevant timescale and why 
that was now different from what he had previously come to expect. 
Therefore, the loss in this complaint is a payment representing the inconvenience of the 
inability to invest any sooner than Mr L did. This is irrespective of the subsequent error with 
the fund code  this would have happened in any event and though Mr L has shown he 
would have invested the same day as the cash became available, that doesnt materially 
affect the outcome of the complaint either. Elevate should have told Mr L about the delay 
and for that mistake it has offered reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
Though I know my decision wont be what Mr L has hoped for, Im not able to uphold his 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman