DRN-2529638
The complaint
Mrs U has complained about the price charged by BUPA Insurance Limited for her private 
medical insurance (PMI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs U had a PMI policy with BUPA since 2016 which renewed annually. Mrs U received a 
renewal notice in 2019 in which her premium increased by nearly 50% although she hadnt 
made as many claims as in the previous year. 
Mrs U complained to BUPA and asked it to explain the increase. Unhappy with BUPAs 
reply, Mrs U referred her to complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong. 
He was satisfied BUPA had acted fairly when calculating Mrs Us premium. 
 
Mrs U disagreed and in summary, she says:
BUPAs terms and conditions are complex 
The no claims discount (NCD) isnt easy to find in the membership guide 
She has asked what the base premium calculations would be if Mrs U had accepted 
the 2019/2020 premium and had a claim free year 
This is fundamentally about the big picture issue which should be corrected, and the 
Ombudsman should look into what health insurance companies can or cannot do.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt set the rules on how 
an insurer can price complaints. Its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies so long as it exercises its judgment fairly and consistently and in accordance with its 
internal guidelines. 
And the Financial Conduct Authority doesnt regulate the prices an insurer charges or the 
methods used to calculate a price. So I cant make any comment on the way an insurer 
chooses to assess a risk or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But I can check 
whether BUPA has applied any terms fairly and also that it hasnt treated Mrs U unfairly 
compared to others in the same position as her. 
BUPA has explained it takes into account a number of factors when looking at premiums, 
including the following; rising healthcare costs, age, location, claims in the last year and 
insurance premium tax. 
Mrs U says the cost of her premiums increased substantially in the 2019/2020 policy year. 
And she doesnt think this is right because her premiums increased by 40% the year before - 
but shed had more claims previously so doesnt understand why the premiums have gone 
up by such a large increase. 
BUPA has provided an explanation of how the premiums were priced in 2019/2020 and also 
in 2018/2019. It has explained that the main reason for the large increase in 2019/2020 was 
due to the base premium increase and the reduction in the NCD bonus.  An excess discount 
was also applied. 
The NCD bonus was applied in accordance with the policy terms as Mrs U had claims in two 
consecutive years and so her discount went down to 45%. The terms confirm that the 
discount applied will be based on previous claims history. 
The base rate has been set based on age. Ive checked the criteria applied by BUPA and it 
has applied the same criteria to other customers in the same position. So I dont think its 
done anything wrong here. 
Mrs U has also said shes unhappy that BUPA had agreed to apply a discount if she were to 
stay. But this isnt unusual when trying to retain customers.
Mrs U made a number of comments in response to the investigators findings which Ive 
carefully considered. Ive looked at BUPAs terms and conditions in relation to NCD and how 
this is calculated. The literature explains how the discount levels are applied based on the 
value of claims. A table is provided with the level of discount and the percentage discount. 
I cannot ask BUPA to share commercially sensitive information, but Ive seen and checked 
the base premiums for the 2019/2020 calculations  I havent seen anything which shows 
that Mrs U was treated differently or unfairly. 
I also note Mrs Us concerns about pricing but as Ive already explained above, its up to an 
insurer to decide how much to charge.  
Overall, although I appreciate why Mrs U feels the premium increases were unfair, Im 
satisfied BUPA hasnt made any errors and hasnt treated Mrs U unfairly. It can increase 
premiums based on the risk its prepared to take. And as the NCD bonus is applied based on 
the number of claims as outlined in the terms and conditions, I dont think BUPA has acted 
unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs U, but I hope Ive explained why BUPA hasnt done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman