DRN-4008806
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited [RL} didnt 
explain that allowing his whole of life policy to become policy paid-up would impact any 
future surrender value.
What happened
In 2017 Mr H stopped making payments to his RL non-reviewable whole of life policy and it 
became paid-up in late April 2018. When Mr H later asked for a surrender value it was 
significantly lower than previous surrender values. Mr H complained to RL.
RL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and explained that the lower surrender value was due to a 
reduction in the death benefit (sum assured) of the policy. RL say this reflects the premiums 
it would no longer receive, and as the surrender value is the minimum of the current asset 
share and the death benefit, this resulted in a reduced surrender valuation after the policy 
had been made paid-up.
Mr H brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that RL hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr H asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says the crux of his complaint is that at the time he discussed with RL making his 
policy paid-up he wasnt provided with information to help him make an informed decision. 
Mr H says if hed known the surrender value would be adversely impacted, he wouldnt have 
allowed the policy to become paid-up. My decision will focus on this aspect, but I will also 
consider other information RL provided Mr H. 
The policy was designed to provide life cover for the whole of Mr Hs life. The premiums 
were non-reviewable, and the policy participated in the profits of the business. It was 
originally taken with a business that has now been taken over by RL. The policy booklet, 
which would have been provided at the time the policy was taken out, explains what would 
happen if premiums were un-paid and the policy was made paid-up. It says that no further 
premiums will be payable  after 12 months  and that future benefits will be calculated in 
accordance with current practice at the time. The same booklet explains the policy would 
have reduced benefits if its made paid-up. I think this makes it reasonably clear that allowing 
the policy to become paid-up would have an impact on the sum assured and subsequently 
the bonuses paid on the policy - and that this will reduce the benefits of the policy.
Mr H spoke with RL in early May 2017. In this call Mr H asked whether he could stop the 
policy. RL told Mr H he could surrender the policy now  or at any time in the future - or allow 
the policy to become paid-up. RL explained that if the policy was made paid-up the sum 
assured would be reduced but bonuses could still be added to the reduced sum assured. RL 
accepts that the surrender value of the paid-up policy wasnt discussed during the call with 
Mr H in 2017. However, having listened to this call Im not persuaded RL suggested Mr H 
make the policy paid-up. Instead, it pointed Mr H to seek independent financial advice about 
his options - and I think RL made it reasonably clear to Mr H the benefits would decrease if 
he allowed the policy to become paid-up. RL made it clear bonuses werent guaranteed, so 
although Mr H may have been expecting to be provided with an estimate of a future 
surrender values, I dont think this is a reasonable expectation as this would depend on final 
bonuses at the time of surrender.
Mr H raised concerns about the reduced surrender value in 2022 and RL took some time to 
provide a final response to the complaint. As complaint handling isnt a regulated activity I 
cant look into this aspect. However, Ive considered correspondence RL sent to Mr H before 
and after he allowed the policy to become paid-up. In July 2017 wrote to Mr H and this letter 
made it reasonably clear what the reduced sum assured would be if the policy became paid-
up - and what the annual bonuses would reduce to. Im satisfied this is in line with what the 
policy booklet said and what RL told Mr H would happen in the May 2017 call. 
Mr H says the statement RL sent in 2018 shows a surrender value of £5,824.77 but the 2019 
statement shows a surrender value of £3,648.31. Taking into account what RL had 
previously told Mr H in the July 2017 letter Ive previously referred to  that the sum assured 
would reduce if the policy became paid-up if no premiums were paid for 12-months, Im 
satisfied the 2019 statement reflects the change in the sum assured. This was the first 
statement issued after the policy became paid-up. I dont think these statements were 
incorrect or misleading. Unfortunately, the last payment Mr H made on the policy happened 
to be in late April 2017 which meant the 12-month period Ive referred to didnt end until April 
2018. This means that it wasnt until 2019 that RL were reasonably able to include the 
reduced sum assured in the statements it sent to Mr H. I have some empathy with Mr H 
here, but Im not persuaded RL has done anything wrong. Mr H could have paid the 12 
months premiums at any time before the end of April 2018, so Im satisfied the information 
provided in the statements reflects the benefits of the policy on the date they were issued.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman