DRN-3127654
The complaint
Ms H has complained about her car insurance broker, Aon UK Limited because, having 
failed to take payment from her for her premium, it cancelled her policy without notice or 
confirmation. Ms H was later stopped by the police for driving without insurance.
What happened
Ms Hs policy was due to renew in March 2020. Aon arranged new cover as it had ceased to 
work with the underwriter that had provided the cover in the previous years. Aon spoke to 
Ms H and assured her it would call back to take her payment. Aon later emailed Ms H 
assuring her the new policy was in place. In September 2020 Aon realised it hadnt taken 
payment from Ms H and called her. Ms H said she had other cover. Aon cancelled the policy 
it had arranged. 
In December 2020 the police stopped Ms H, she was devastated to learn she had no 
insurance. Ms H later had to go to court and all charges against her were dropped.
In the meantime Ms H had complained to Aon and us. Aon said it hadnt followed procedure 
in respect of taking payment or cancelling the policy. It said it would pay Ms H £500 
compensation. Our investigator felt Aon should also provide a letter confirming there had 
been cover on the policy and remove the record of the cancellation from any industry 
database.
Aon said Ms H was at least partly at fault as she hadnt paid. It said that as a broker it 
couldnt confirm cover on behalf of the underwriter or amend any external databases. Ms H 
was disappointed overall, especially given that the proceedings instigated by the police had 
only been resolved by her attending court which had been extremely stressful causing her to 
feel vulnerable and humiliated. She clarified that the underwriter had told her the policy had 
been marked as not taken up. The complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that Aon should amend its own records and 
provide a letter to Ms H explaining its error had caused her a gap in cover. I also said it 
should pay Ms H total compensation of £1,000.
Aon agreed to the amendment and letter, but not the compensation. Ms H said she wasnt 
sure what the external databases would say about the cancellation and wanted to 
understand that the letter would be enough for her, should she need clarity on that. 
Regarding compensation, Ms H said she wanted an award to reflect what shed been 
through  even worrying the court action would tarnish her reputation and a conviction would 
mean shed likely lose her job. She said she wanted Aon to acknowledge what it had put her 
through. For its part Aon said that, whilst it accepted it had failed Ms H, it felt the suggested 
compensation was too much as Ms H was only really impacted after its poorly executed call 
in September 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I think Aon failed Ms H here, and that she has suffered markedly as a result. Ideally Ms H 
should have realised the payment for the policy hadnt been taken. But Im mindful that the 
miscommunicating about payment occurred at a time of unprecedented upheaval for the 
country as the 2020 pandemic ensued. Im also aware of some personal details Ms H has 
shared with us about how she was affected by the pandemic in the months after the renewal 
and that this was also a period during which she was caring for a sick relative who then 
passed away in summer 2020. I can completely see how Ms H, who seems otherwise like a 
conscientious person, forgot the payment for this cover was outstanding. Aon, in my view, 
was the professional in this relationship and should have ensured the money was collected, 
or at least followed up on the non-payment in good order when no funds were received.
As it was, it was September 2020 before Aon noted Ms Hs payment was missing. Aon then 
elected to call Ms H. That was reasonable of it. But the call was, in my view, executed 
poorly. Having listened to the very brief call, I note that Aons call handler didnt properly 
introduce themselves and, other than confirming Ms Hs name, no identity details were 
asked for or checked. Further, the handler didnt let Ms H know this call was being made in 
respect of her current, valid motor insurance and no policy number was given to Ms H. With 
no real explanation the caller asked Ms H if the cover was still required. Ms H said she had 
other cover. Notably the caller didnt clarify to Ms H that as she had said she had a valid 
policy in place, this policy would be cancelled.
Ms H has explained since that she thought this was a cold-call and she didnt really 
understand the nature of it, and certainly didnt think it was to do with her car insurance. Im 
satisfied thats a reasonable explanation. From the call I can hear that Ms H sounds 
somewhat unsure and dismissive  in a way that I can readily accept one might when feeling 
theyve received unsolicited contact. I also bear in mind that Ms H says she was likely at 
work when she received this call and that she was still grieving her recent personal losses. 
I think Ms H was confused by the handler during this call and this resulted in them talking at 
cross purposes  Ms H not realising that the handler was questioning the very policy Ms H 
felt was securely in place. I think if the handler had been clearer the two could have had a 
meaningful conversation about Ms Hs cover and the cancellation would have been avoided. 
The call content aside, I note Aon accepts that it should have followed this call up in writing 
confirming the cancellation  but that it didnt do that. If it had that would have at least 
prompted Ms H to call it and find out what was happening, meaning she wouldnt have 
driven without insurance being in place.  
Im satisfied that Aon handled things poorly and that this misled Ms H into thinking she had 
cover when she did not. Im pleased for Ms H that she was able to get the charges against 
her dismissed but I understand that was a difficult process for her to go through. I think all of 
that; from the policy being cancelled, through Ms H being stopped by the police and to her 
having to attend court where the charges against her were dismissed, could have been 
avoided if Aon had handled things properly. And Ms H has painted a picture of the 
devastating impact this had on her at what was already a difficult time. So, to reflect that, I 
think it should pay Ms H a total of £1,000 compensation.  I understand that our investigator initially suggested that Aon provide a letter of indemnity for 
Ms H  to show she did have cover in order to defend the charges. But as the charges 
against her have now been dismissed, it seems that method of redress is no longer required. 
And I cant require Aon to reinstate Ms Hs cover because it is only a broker, so it doesn't 
actually provide the cover itself. Nor can Aon, as a broker, influence data contained on any 
external databases. But Aon can amend its own records to show this policy was cancelled 
by Ms H, or mark it, as the underwriter seems to have, to show it wasnt taken up. Ms H 
shouldnt have to declare to future insurers that she has had a policy cancelled. Not when, if 
Aon had explained things properly to her in the call in September 2020, or if it had correctly 
chased her policy payment in March 2020, the cancellation could have been avoided. 
Ms H hasnt told us of any difficulty shes had in getting replacement cover, or any increase 
to the cost of her premium, perhaps due to the gap in cover shes now had. But many 
insurers will want to know there has been consistent cover in previous years and a gap can, 
on occasion, present a problem for some insurers. I cant make the gap in cover for Ms H go 
away, but I can require Aon to write her a letter explaining that Ms H was without cover from 
renewal in March 2020 due to an error on its part.
I understand that Ms H went through a lot as a result of Aons failures. As I said, I think Aons 
first failure came at the time of renewal when it didnt appropriately follow up on the payment 
of premium. And I explained how I saw Ms H as being affected at that time by the 
circumstances surrounding her (nationally and personally). In my mind that, in light of Aons 
role as the expert insurer, mitigated Ms Hs failure to pay the premium as the policy required 
her to do. But Ms H didnt know, at the time of renewal, or thereafter, that Aon had failed her, 
and she wasnt affected by that failure then. It was after Aons second and third failures  the 
poorly executed call and the cancellation  that Ms H began to experience distress and 
inconvenience. Specifically beginning when she was stopped by the police for driving without 
insurance. 
Whilst Aon thinks £1,000 total compensation is too much, I think its failed to grasp the 
impact all this had on Ms H. Ms H told Aon in her complaint letter she was devastated to 
learn of the cancellation which only came to light whilst she was challenging the police and 
trying to evidence that she did have cover. The natural consequence of Ms H not having 
cover when stopped whilst driving by the police, was court action. Attending court in a 
situation like this is a horrendously stressful experience for most people. And Ms H has 
described how she was left feeling vulnerable and humiliated. Ive considered what Ms H 
has told us about how she was affected by Aons failures, and I remain of the view that 
£1,000 total compensation is fairly and reasonably due.  
Aon has agreed to amend its own records, and Ms H didnt object to this finding. So I dont 
need to say any more about that. 
The letter Ive asked Aon to write is purely for the purpose of Ms H, should she need to, 
showing future insurers that the gap she had in cover wasnt her fault. I know Ms H says she 
wants the letter for protection in case future insurers think shes had a policy cancelled. And 
thats because she was told during the court case that you can never be sure what detail the 
external databases hold about cover. But Im mindful that generally cancellations arent 
recorded externally. And, in any event, the detail held on external databases usually reflect 
the detail recorded by the underwriting insurer. Here Ms H has told us that the underwriter 
for her policy recorded that this policy was not taken up. So Im satisfied that if this incident 
is recorded outside of Aons or the underwriters systems all that will  most likely be shown is 
that Ms H didnt take up this policy (as opposed to it having been cancelled by Aon or the 
underwriter). And following my decision, Aons records will reflect that too  or that it was 
cancelled by Ms H. Neither of which should give any future insurer cause for concern. However, if a future insurer of Ms Hs should, for some reason, ask her about this policy 
having been cancelled by Aon/the underwriter, Ms H can show that insurer a copy of this 
decision. This decision evidences that Aon acted unfairly and unreasonably when it 
cancelled her cover.
 
Putting things right
I require Aon to:
Pay Ms H a total of £1,000 compensation (a further £500 only if £500 has been paid 
already).
Mark its records for Ms H to show the policy was either cancelled by her or not taken 
up.
Provide a letter to Ms H that she can use to show future insurers that the gap in cover 
she experienced from March 2020 was due to an error on its part.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aon UK Limited to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman