DRN-4404455
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Sterling Currency Exchange Limited havent reimbursed a £15,000
transfer to her that was returned by the recipient.
What happened
To briefly summarise. Mrs A instructed Sterling to transfer £100,000 to an overseas
recipient. The recipient returned the money that was transferred to them in five tranches, but
Sterling only reimbursed four of these tranches to Mrs A, with a tranche of £15,000
remaining outstanding. Mrs A wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Sterling responded and explained that theyd processed the transfer via an intermediary, and
that the intermediary hadnt received the £15,000 missing tranche from the recipient. Mrs A
wasnt satisfied with Sterlings response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the overseas recipient had
been able to demonstrate that the missing £15,000 had been returned, and that therefore
the issue was likely with the intermediary that Sterling had used.
Our investigator felt that Sterling was responsible for the actions of their intermediary. So,
they recommended that this complaint be upheld, and that Sterling should reimburse the
£15,000 to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest. And our investigator also said that Sterling
should make a further payment of £200 to Mrs A as compensation for the trouble and upset
that shed incurred. Sterling didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 October 2023 as follows:
Im satisfied from the information that Mrs A has provided to this service that the overseas 
recipient has returned the missing £15,000 as they claim to have done, and I note that Mrs A 
has obtained this information having chased the matter with the overseas recipient directly.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that the most likely scenario here is that Mrs As money has been
received by the intermediary appointed by Sterling to facilitate the transfer.
Given that its my understanding that itss Sterling who hold a relationship with this
intermediary  having appointed them to facilitate the transfer  Im consequently satisfied at
this time that its the responsibility of Sterling to liaise with the intermediary and recover the
£15,000.
But Sterling havent done this, and I dont feel that its fair for Mrs A to have been deprived of
her money for the length of time that she has been here. Accordingly, my provisional
decision is that I uphold this complaint in Mrs As favour and that Sterling must reimburse the
£15,000 to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest on that amount, calculated from the date that
the other returned tranches were reimbursed to Mrs A to the date that Sterling pay the
missing £15,000 to Mrs A.
Additionally, Sterling must also make a further payment of £400 to Mrs A as compensation
for the upset and inconvenience that shes clearly experienced here. In arriving at this
amount, Ive considered the trouble and worry that this matter has caused Mrs A, as well as
what I feel has been a lack of urgency and responsibility from Sterling in their actions and
their communication with Mrs A about this matter. And taking these factors into account, I
feel that £400 is a fair compensation amount.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs A and Sterling the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a 
final decision. Mrs A confirmed she was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
Sterling did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here whereby I uphold this complaint in 
Mrs As favour as per my provisional decision above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold 
this complaint in Mrs As favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Sterling must make a payment of £15,000 to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest on that 
amount, calculated from the date that the other returned tranches were reimbursed to Mrs A 
to the date that Sterling make the £15,000 payment to her.
Sterling must also make a further payment of £400 to Mrs A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sterling Currency Exchange Limited 
on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman