DRN-3731855
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that a car supplied to him by Black Horse Limited, under a hire purchase 
agreement, had been in a previous accident and was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 22 September 2021, Mr Z was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. He paid a deposit of £2,000 and the agreement was for 
£12,798 over 36 months; with monthly repayments of £426.27. At the time of supply the car 
was five and a half years old and had done 54,007 miles. 
Mr Z said that he struggled to start the car and took it to a local garage. He says he was told 
that some body panels were misaligned, and that the car may have had previous repairs. He 
also said he was told the battery was faulty and there were issues with the brakes, so the car 
wasnt safe to drive.
Mr Z contacted the dealership on 23 September 2021  the day after it was supplied to him. 
And the dealership said he could return the car. But Mr Z didnt. Instead he kept the car and 
complained to Black Horse.
Black Horse arranged for an independent engineers inspection on the car. At which point it 
had done 60,020 mile  6,000 more than when Mr Z was supplied with the car. And the 
engineer said that there appeared to be signs of a previous repair, but any damage to the 
bodywork wouldve been visible to the untrained eye. The engineer also said there was 
corrosion to the rear brakes, which were part of normal wear and tear.
Black Horse said that Mr Z was aware of the damage to the bodywork when the car was 
supplied, as the dealership discounted the sale because of this. And they thought this made 
the car of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Mr Z then raised a further complaint 
about the battery failing, and two tyres needing replacing. Black Horse offered to reimburse 
Mr Z with the cost of replacing the battery and tyres.
Mr Z wasnt happy with Black Horses response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the pre-sale checklist didnt suggest the car had been in a major 
accident, but from the independent engineers report and photographs it was clear that the 
body panels were misaligned. And Mr Z was given a discount because of various body 
marks. Because of this, the investigator was satisfied that a discussion about the body work 
took place at the point of sale. So, he didnt think the sale had been misrepresented.
The investigator also said he hadnt seen any evidence of any faults with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr Z, other than the bodywork issue which Mr Z was reasonably aware of. And 
hed seen that Black Horse agreed to reimburse the costs of the battery and tyres. So, he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr Z didnt agree. He said hed been sold a car that was seriously damaged, had been badly 
repaired, and was dangerous to drive. He also raised the issue that the airbags werent 
functioning and said that he had to spend time and money to make the car drivable. 
Because of this hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr Z was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Black 
Horse are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. 
The MOT history for the car shows that it failed its first MOT in 2019 due to damage to a 
tyre. This was fixed and the car then passed MOTs in April 2019, September 2019, 
September 2020, and September 2021 first time, and without any advisories. Ive also seen 
that the car passed a multi-point safety check on the day it was supplied to Mr Z. 
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 19 January 2022. This 
inspection took place when Mr Z had had the car for just over 3 months and done 6,000 
miles. The engineer said there was misalignment of body panels, and some of the panels 
had been repainted. They also said the cause of the panel misalignment is due to a 
previous accident having occurred  the faults would have been visible to the untrained eye 
at the point of sale. Based on the body panel condition, the vehicle would have been of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
The engineer also said there was corrosion to the rear brake discs and the front brake discs 
and pads had been recently replaced. But the engineer considered this was due to age 
related wear and tear.
Ive also seen a copy of a report Mr Z had done on the car, dated 24 September 2022, when 
the car had done 61,101 miles. This said that there were bodywork alignment issues, with 
evidence of a previous repair. However, Ive noted that the car passed an MOT on 20 
September 2022 (four days before the second inspection), with advisories for worn tyres, 
brakes, and suspension bushes. All of which are serviceable items that would require 
renewal over time.
Section 9 of the CRA says:
(1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality 
of goods is satisfactory.(4) The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the 
quality of goods unsatisfactory-
a) Which is specifically drawn to the customers attention before the contract is 
made,
b) Where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which 
that examination ought to reveal.
Given the comments made by the independent engineer in the report of 19 January 2022, 
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr Z. However, its 
not disputed that the condition of the car didnt change between supply and this inspection, 
and its clear from the photographs that the body panels are misaligned. Whats more, the 
report clearly says the misalignment is visible to the untrained eye. In addition to this, Mr Z 
was provided with a discount on the purchase price because of issues with the bodywork 
(although I accept he says this wasnt related to the misaligned panels).
As such, while the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied, Im satisfied that 
section 9(4)(b) of the CRA applies  Mr Z had a discussion with the dealership about the 
bodywork and (more importantly) when he viewed the car, the misalignment was obvious. In 
his comments on the investigators view, Mr Z has argued that the misaligned panels are 
indicative of the car being in a previous accident. So, its reasonable to conclude that he 
shouldve come to the same conclusion when examining the car.
Ive noted that Mr Z says the car has been in a serious accident, has been badly damaged, 
and is dangerous to drive. Not only do neither of the reports on the car comment on the 
seriousness of the accident, nor say its dangerous to drive; the car passed an MOT at the 
point of supply, and again in September 2022, with no issues relating to any previous 
accident damage. And Im satisfied this wouldnt have happened if the car was dangerous to 
drive. Given this, I dont agree with Mr Zs assessment of the car in its current condition.
Ive also seen that Mr Z was supplied with the car with a right to cancel. This term said, you 
have 24 hours and up to 70 miles* of driving to cancel and return your purchase for a full 
refund, for any reason  *Reasonable costs will apply if the mileage is exceeded. And, 
when he contacted the dealership about the condition of the car the day after supply, he was 
told he could return the car for a full refund. But he didnt do this. As such, regardless of the 
CRA, Im satisfied that Mr Z had the right to return the car but chose not to do so. And, for 
the reasons stated above, that right no longer exists.
Finally, Mr Z has raised the issue that the airbags arent working. While this hasnt been 
raised directly with Black Horse, I have considered this point. If the airbags went off in the 
accident which resulted in the bodywork misalignment, and hadnt been reset, then this 
would show as a fault code in the car. But neither inspection mentioned any fault codes 
relating to the airbags. As such, Im satisfied that there wasnt an issue with the airbags 
when the car was supplied to Mr Z.
Given all these circumstances, Im satisfied that Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably. 
And its now for Mr Z to decide whether to accept their offer of a goodwill reimbursement of 
the costs for a replacement battery and two tyres.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman