DRN-4230889
The complaint
Miss G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) is refusing to refund her the amount she 
lost as the result of a scam.
Miss G is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Miss G 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Miss G received a message from a lady via a popular messaging service she 
was subscribed to. She explained she had found Miss Gs details on a recruitment database. 
She asked if Miss G was interested in making some investments. Miss G was looking for a 
job at the time so wasnt surprised at how her details had been obtained and she said she 
was interested.
Several days later Miss G received a follow up call this time by a person claiming to be 
called Kevin (X). X explained he worked with a company called GForce and explained Miss 
G would have her own account and would need to carry out 42 missions from which she 
would gain profits.  She would have to make an initial payment of $100.
As Miss G had no prior experience of this X allowed Miss G to practice on his account before 
investing herself.
Initially Miss G saw a profit on her account but soon the profit started to go down and Miss G 
was told she would have to complete all the missions to receive the profit. After Miss G 
completed each mission, she was asked to make a further payment and the payment 
requests were getting higher in value.
When Miss G explained she was unable to gather the funds for the missions X offered to 
help by topping up the payments Miss G was able to make. Then the payment requests got 
even higher, and Miss G was unable to make any more payments. X told Miss G she should 
take out loans and would have to pay it back the money it had helped her with immediately. 
At this point Miss G confided in her partner who realised she had fallen victim to a scam.
Miss G made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Payment Type Amount
23 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £70.21
23 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £90.27
24 June 2022 Banxa Debit Card £200.00
26 June 2022 Individuals account Transfer £450.00
26 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £97.29
26 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £41.22
26 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £409.22
27 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £100.30
27 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £12.39
28 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £2,507.50
28 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £2,565.17
28 June 2022 Individuals account Transfer £1,973.64
28 June 2022 Individuals account Debit Card £4,513.50
28 June 2022 Individuals account Transfer £927.32
28 June 2022 Individuals account Transfer £615.25
28 June 2022 Individuals account Transfer £214.00
Our Investigator considered Miss Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
Monzo agreed, but Miss G didnt agree. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss G has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence 
provided by both Miss G and Monzo sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether 
Monzo should refund the money Miss G lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss G made
Miss G made payments into the scam via the methods of debit card payment and transfer.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
In this case Miss G knowingly purchased cryptocurrency via a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange each time she made a card payment, and this service was provided to her. The 
scam took place when Miss G moved her purchased crypto to X. Therefore, the chargeback 
option would not have been available to her as her dispute is with X, not the payees that 
received her payments. Miss G doesnt dispute receiving crypto in exchange for her 
payments  so any chargeback attempt would likely fail. 
For payments made by transfer Monzo has limited options available to it to recover funds. 
I have considered whether Miss G should receive a refund for the payments she made by 
transfer in accordance with the CRM Code. But the CRM Code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here Miss G sent payments 
to individuals to purchase crypto via a legitimate crypto exchange and she received that 
purchased crypto. The scam occurred when she moved her purchased crypto to X. So, Im 
satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments Miss G made? 
It has been accepted that Miss G authorised the payments that were made from her account 
with Monzo, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Miss G is responsible.However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have been aware of the scam and stepped into 
question Miss G about the payments she was making. And if it had questioned Miss G, 
would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
Miss G initially made relatively small payments into the scam that I dont think would have 
reasonably triggered Monzos fraud prevention systems. Although by the time Miss G had 
made the second payment on 28 June 2022 (£2,565.17) into the scam she was making her 
11th payment in just six days. This payment also meant she was now paying more than 
£5,000 out of her account in a single day. So, I think this payment should have triggered 
Monzos fraud prevention systems prompting it to step in and question Miss G about the 
payments she was making.
Had Monzo stepped in I have seen no reason why Miss G would not have been honest 
about the reasons behind the payments she was making and with this type of scam being 
relatively common I think its likely Monzo would have uncovered the scam preventing any 
further loss to Miss G.
Did Miss G contribute to her loss?
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Miss G should share blame for what happened. Miss G started what she thought to be a job 
without signing any form of employment contract, having been contacted out of the blue via 
a messaging service. If Miss G had carried out a search on the business she had been 
offered employment with at any time she would have seen that the business did not offer the 
type of employment she was recruited for. So, I think Miss G should have done more to 
prevent her loss.
I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 50% on the basis that Miss G should share
some blame for what happened.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think if Monzo Bank Ltd had done what it reasonably ought to have 
done, Miss G would not have lost out as much as she did to this scam.
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund Miss G the payments she made into the scam from the 
second payment (£2,565.17) on 28 June 2022 less 50%.
To compensate Miss G for having been deprived of this money, Monzo Bank Ltd should also 
pay Miss G interest on the loss at the same rate as her savings account where the payments 
were funded from per year, calculated from the date they were paid, to the date of 
settlement. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman