DRN-3840965
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy after the theft of her car.
For ease of reading any reference to UKI includes its agents and although Mrs As complaint 
has been advanced by her representative I have just referred to her in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs A had her insurance policy with UKI for a number of years. And when her car was stolen 
from a car park when she was out shopping she reported the theft to the police and UKI and 
it dealt with the claim.
Initially Mrs As car wasnt recovered and so UKI looked to pay her the market value of her 
car (about £4,430) less the excess that was due under the policy and said her car was 
written off. But, when it wrote out to Mrs A it explained it had inspected her car and gave her 
the impression that the car was stolen recovered. However, her car wasnt recovered at that 
point in time and so she was surprised to receive a call from the police to say her car had 
been recovered a while later.
Mrs A bought a new car with more mileage for more money and so she was disappointed to 
find out her car was written off when it was, as far as she was concerned, in relatively good 
condition. In effect she wondered why she hadnt got her own car back and undertaken any 
repairs that were required. When Mrs A complained to UKI about this it acknowledged that it 
didnt handle its communications about this very well and offered £200 in compensation. It 
also noticed the valuation of Mrs As car was low and so it increased this by £178 (plus 8% 
simple interest) and paid an additional £150 in compensation for its error here. But Mrs A 
remained unhappy, so she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but, although she accepted that UKI got things 
wrong here, she thought its offer of an increase in the market value and a total of £350 
compensation for its errors and poor service was fair.
As Mrs A didnt agree, maintaining that she was out of pocket, the matter has been passed 
to me to review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mrs As frustration and disappointment here, as UKI didnt deal 
with her claim very well or clearly explain its process, I dont think it needs to do anymore in 
relation to Mrs As car being written off. But I dont think the level of compensation UKI has 
offered (£350) is sufficient. Ill explain why.
I know UKI didnt explain to Mrs A that it hadnt actually looked at her car before writing it off, 
but I think it acted reasonably. I say this as Mrs As car hadnt been reported to it as stolen 
recovered at that stage and so I cant be critical here as UKI was simply looking to deal with 
Mrs As claim in a reasonable period of time. And, importantly, as our investigator explained 
it eventually offered her a fair market value for her car, so I dont think it was obliged to do 
anymore about this although its explanation and communication around this was poor.
I have looked at the valuation it placed on Mrs As car and this Service has an established 
approach to valuation cases. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance 
company I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is 
fair in all the circumstances.
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value. I pay 
attention to the various valuation guides used for valuing cars and any other evidence 
available and I will only tell a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair. And 
having looked at everything, including the valuation guides, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly 
when it eventually valued Mrs As car at just over £4,600. It may well be that Mrs A struggled 
to find a similar car with similar mileage but that doesnt mean UKIs valuation was unfair. 
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mrs As 
car. Im just looking to see if UKI has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of her 
car and I think it has.
I know Mrs A doesnt feel her car should have been written off but UKI did scrap her car, so 
it is possible there was additional damage to the car that couldnt be seen to the naked eye. 
And as Mrs A got the full market value of the car Im not going to ask UKI to do anymore 
here. It was Mrs As choice to buy a more expensive car but UKI paid her a fair market value 
that shouldve allowed her to buy a similar car for a similar price.
Turning to the poor service and communication provided by UKI I agree that it couldve done 
a lot better here. It offered £200 in compensation for the poor service it provided and in 
acknowledgment of its poor explanation as to why Mrs As car was written off. And it offered 
a further £150 in compensation as it undervalued Mrs As car.
However, UKI also made a few further mistakes. For example, it wrote out incorrectly saying 
it was waiving Mrs As excess only to withdraw this as this was a mistake. And Mrs A was 
contacted by the scrap yard and asked if she had keys for her car which meant that she was 
able to go and collect her private belongings, but UKI shouldve looked to facilitate this. It 
must have been both surprising and worrying to have received the call from the salvage 
agent and I dont think UKI did enough to explain what happened here to Mrs A. And given 
Mrs As concerns about not getting her car back I wouldve expected UKI to have looked into 
whether Mrs A wanted to buy the salvage back in order to repair her car and get it back on 
the road or to clearly explain why this wasnt possible and what had happened.
Given all of this, the number of errors, the poor service and poor communication that took 
place at an already clearly stressful time for Mrs A, I think the level of compensation should 
be increased. Ive considered how difficult Mrs A and her representative found it dealing with 
all of this following the theft of their car and I think £500, as opposed to £350, is a fairer 
reflection of the stress, worry and inconvenience all this caused.
Replies
Both sides responded. UKI accepted the position outlined and the increase in compensation. 
While Mrs A also accepted the position outlined and said that she was anxious to put the matter behind her. And Mrs A highlighted that she would be returning to the two previous 
outdated compensation cheques that UKI had sent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have agreed with my provisional decision I dont propose to go over the detail 
again here. And as there is agreement with the position outlined above I see no reason to 
depart from my findings and I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs A £500 (total) in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman