DRN-3003860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC is wrongly applying mortgage 
overpayments to their account, by failing to backdate them, meaning theyre paying 
additional interest. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays. They regularly make payments 
towards the mortgage and they say that the payments arent applied to the mortgage 
balance on the same date as theyre received by Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs S explain this means the interest they pay is unfairly higher than it should be, as 
its calculated based on a higher balance.
When Barclays dealt with Mr and Mrs Ss complaint it initially offered £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience Mr and Mrs S had suffered. Another of its complaint handlers then 
withdrew that offer and paid Mr and Mrs S £25. Mr and Mrs S have noted that the complaint 
handler didnt attempt to call them to accept the amount before payment, nor to discuss 
where it should be paid to. They also explained that they felt the complaint handler should be 
demoted or sacked. 
Mr and Mrs S, throughout the complaint, have clearly shown their frustration at Barclays. 
They initially requested £600 compensation, which they increased to £1,000 and later 
£1,500. 
Our investigator looked at things and spoke to both parties, and compensation of £200 was 
agreed in addition to the £25 that had already been paid. Mr and Mrs S requested this was 
paid off of their mortgage. Barclays initially paid this off of a different mortgage held by Mr 
and Mrs S, but it rectified this by moving the amount to the correct mortgage and backdating 
the payment. But Mr and Mrs S requested a further £100 compensation for this error. 
As things havent been resolved the complaint has been passed to me. I should add at this 
stage that although Ive thought about everything, Im only commenting on the points that I 
feel are relevant to bringing matters to a close. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont require Barclays to take any further action. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator explained that based on the information we have, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
payments do appear to have been applied and backdated correctly to the account. Whilst 
this can be seen from Barclays system screen shots, whereby theres a date shown for 
when the payments were applied to the account, and a separate (usually earlier) date for the 
value of the payment being applied, its not evident on Mr and Mrs Ss statements. I 
understand this is inconvenient for Mr and Mrs S, and I know why theyve questioned it. But 
that doesnt mean Barclays has done something wrong, and on balance, I think its likely the 
payments have been applied and backdated correctly.
I havent been able to look more closely at when the payments were made by Mr and Mrs S, 
and received or applied to the account by Barclays, because Mr and Mrs S havent agreed to 
provide evidence of the payments being made. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted Barclays offer of £200 compensation, plus the £25 that had already 
been paid, as a settlement to the complaint. I agree that was a fair way for Barclays to 
recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S, but I dont agree that Barclays has 
made repeated errors, nor that what has happened warrants any more compensation.
Its also worth noting that this agreement was reached on 12 July 2020, and Barclays 
applied the compensation to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account on 16 July 2020 and 
backdated it to 3 July 2020. So in fact Mr and Mrs S have benefited from by having interest 
calculated on a lower balance for nine more days than what was initially agreed. 
Mr and Mrs B have explained that they expect a further £100 compensation as Barclays 
initially paid the £200 compensation to the wrong mortgage account. Barclays fixed this error 
as soon as it realised this had happened, and from what Ive seen there was no impact, 
financial or otherwise, on Mr and Mrs S. And although theyve stated that Barclays doesnt 
have consent to do what it did to rectify the mistake, I dont think thats the case. So I dont 
agree that any further compensation should be paid for this mistake.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I sincerely empathise with how frustrated they feel at 
Barclays, and for its apparent apathy at learning from its mistakes. But my role as an 
ombudsman is only to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint  as opposed 
to how Barclays conducts itself on a wider scale. Thats the role of the regulator. So Im 
afraid that, although I understand Mr and Mrs Ss points in relation to this, they dont change 
the decision Ive made in this individual complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. And although I havent 
individually listed every point theyve raised, Ive considered everything theyve said. But for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, so I dont require 
Barclays to do anything further to put things right. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman