DRN-3831219
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly
turned down his claim for cancelled events under his commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D held commercial insurance with Hiscox. He looked to claim on his policy in May 2020 
after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. In particular, he thought the following provided cover:
Cancellation and abandonment cover extends to include the following as
standard:
13157 WD-HSP-UK-GEOE-CA(5)
irrecoverable expenses incurred by you in connection with running or organising
an event following postponement, abandonment, cancellation or relocation as a
sole and direct result of a cause entirely beyond your control.
In July 2020, Hiscox said Mr D didnt have business interruption insurance and no other part
of the policy provided cover.
Mr D complained to Hiscox as he didnt think it had properly considered his claim under the
cover for cancellation and abandonment. Hiscox said the cover for cancellation and
abandonment was set out in the policy summary but wasnt cover Mr D had selected.
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Mr D didnt think
Hiscox had properly considered his claim and was unhappy about the time Hiscox had taken
to respond.
Our investigator thought that Hiscox had fairly turned down Mr Ds claim as he didnt have
the cover for cancellation and abandonment or cover for business interruption as part of his
policy. However, he thought Hiscox had taken longer than it should have done to deal with
things, so he recommended Hiscox pay Mr D £100 compensation in recognition of this.
Hiscox accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr D accepted the £100 compensation
for delays but pointed out that the cover for crisis containment, which was part of his policy,
had the following in the title 13157 WD-HSP-UK-GEOE-CA(5), which was the code 
associated with the cover for cancellation and abandonment.
Hiscox said this was an error on the policy schedule and Mr D didnt have the cancellation
and abandonment cover. However, Hiscox said that even if the policy did include
cancellation and abandonment cover, the policy included an exclusion for communicable
diseases, so Mr Ds claim wouldnt have been covered. Hiscox pointed out that Mr D hadnt
been sent the full policy terms for the cancellation and abandonment cover, but it didnt think
Mr D would have bought a different policy even if hed known about the exclusion. Hiscox
said it wouldnt pay Mr Ds claim but offered him £750 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition
that its service hadnt been what it would expect. Mr D accepted this offer and I understand
Hiscox has now paid Mr D £750.
On the basis of Hiscoxs final response, I sent Mr D an email to clarify which points remained
in dispute and to explain why I didnt intend to require Hiscox to pay anything more than it
had already agreed to. In summary, I didnt think any error by Hiscox had caused Mr D a
loss he wouldnt otherwise have had.
In response, Mr D said that hed paid extra for a policy which included cover for cancellation,
and he entered into the contract on the basis of the information which had been provided. He
said hed been denied the opportunity to take out cover elsewhere and the purpose of
insurance was to cover unforeseen risks.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 November 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ds business. However, I think the £850 Hiscox have agreed to pay to resolve
his complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why below.
The claim
As Mr D said hed entered into the contract on the basis of the wording provided, Ive started
off by considering whether the wording associated with WD-HSP-UK-GEOE-CA(5) in the
summary document formed part of the contract between Mr D and Hiscox and therefore
whether the inclusion of the wrong code means that cover is available.
The policy has to be interpreted as at the time the parties entered into it. I understand from
Hiscox that Mr D bought his policy online and the incorrect code has been on the schedule
since the initial sale in 2017. Hiscox said that when buying the policy Mr D would have been
asked to select which cover was required. Hiscox has provided a spreadsheet showing the
data which pulled through from the application form. The spreadsheet indicates that Mr D
didnt select cancellation and abandonment cover at that time so in my view, this means that
Mr D didnt buy the policy expecting it to provide cover for cancellation.
Mr D said he bought the policy and paid a higher amount for it on the basis that cancellation
cover was included. However, I think this is unlikely given that he didnt select cancellation
cover when buying the policy. Ive noted Mr Ds point that he doesnt think its reasonable for
me to decide what I think would most likely have happened. However, as its impossible for
me to know for sure, my role is [to] reach a decision based on what I think is most likely, 
having considered all of the information available to me.
The policy is described as offering pick-and-mix type cover, so I think Mr D would reasonably
appreciate that some elements of the cover set out in the summary might not be included in
the policy. The relevant section of the Schedule is headed Crisis Containment and it then
refers to a crisis containment supplier, as well as the limit for out of hours crisis containment
 with no reference to cancellation apart from the code. Moreover, the summary document 
which doesnt form part of the contract  says that Cancellation and Abandonment cover is
extended to include the provision Mr D believes he is able to claim from. The summary
doesnt say that the crisis containment cover Mr D has extends to provide the cover, so I
dont think this provided a reasonable expectation of cover.
The policy itself includes the Crisis Containment wording, with no reference to the
cancellation cover. The Crisis Containment section in the policy has the correct code in the
footer, which does not match the one in the Schedule. I think this indicates that the error is inthe Schedule, not the policy.
Taking all of this into account, I think the insertion of the code for cancellation cover would
most likely be considered an obvious error and therefore it doesnt provide cover under the
policy and it was reasonable for Hiscox to decline Mr Ds claim.
Sale and renewals of the policy
As Ive said above, Im not persuaded that Mr D intended to buy cancellation cover as he
didnt select it when he bought the policy. However, he might say that he didnt add
cancellation cover at the renewals because he thought the incorrect code meant it was
already included. So Ive considered this for completeness. In doing so, Ive considered what
I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr D said he wanted cancellation cover and thought hed paid more for it. So, I think its
reasonable to conclude that Mr D might have added the cover to his policy at a renewal if
hed known it wasnt included. But even if hed added the cover, the cancellation cover has
an exclusion for communicable diseases which I believe would have applied and so wouldnt
have covered Mr Ds claim.
Ive noted Mr Ds point that the exclusion couldnt form part of the contract if he wasnt aware
of it. But as Ive said above, I dont think cancellation cover was part of the contract, so I
dont think its relevant that the exclusion wasnt provided to him. Instead, its for me to
consider what Mr D would have done if hed known about the exclusion. Having done so, I
remain unpersuaded that Mr D wouldnt have added this cover if hed known about the
exclusion. I understand that Mr D would have wanted a policy which provided cover for
unforeseen circumstances and with the benefit of hindsight I accept that this is what Mr D
believes he would have done. However, many policies contain exclusions and I havent seen
anything to indicate that cover in the event of disease was something which was of a
particular concern for Mr D at the time he bought or renewed the policy. Therefore, I dont
think the inclusion of the incorrect code caused Mr D a loss he wouldnt otherwise have had.
Distress and inconvenience
While I dont believe that Hiscox needs to pay Mr Ds claim, it's clear that Hiscox hasnt
provided the service Mr D should expect. In addition to the policy schedule containing an
error it took longer than I would expect for Hiscox to provide an explanation of what had
happened. Hiscox has agreed to pay a total of £850 in compensation for Mr Ds distress and
inconvenience. When taking everything into consideration, I think this is a fair and
reasonable amount, so I dont intend to require Hiscox to increase it.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for but, having considered the matter
very carefully, Im not going to require Hiscox to pay anything more than it has already
agreed.
Mr D queried whether hed received the additional £100 recommended by our investigator 
but didnt provide any further comments. Hiscox accepted my provisional decision and said it 
would contact Mr D to arrange to pay the additional £100. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr D nor Hiscox have provided any further comments to change my mind, I see no reason to depart from the outcome reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Therefore, Hiscox should pay Mr D a total of £850 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr D a total of 
£850 for the distress and inconvenience caused. If it has already paid Mr D this amount, it 
doesnt need to pay anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman