DRN-1880782
 
The complaint
Mr Ts unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
under his home emergency insurance policy and that it was ultimately declined. 
What happened
On 22 February 2020 Mr T called Admiral to report a leak. Admiral sent an engineer to 
Mr Ts property who turned the water off to stop any further immediate damage. The 
engineer didnt have the part needed to do anything more at that point. He made Mr T aware 
of this and that he shouldnt turn the water back on. He told Mr T about the work that would 
be needed for a more permanent fix.
Mr T says he went out for a few hours and when he came back, he noticed further flooding. 
Mr T feels he wouldnt have had to make a claim under his home insurance policy if the 
engineer had carried out a more permanent fix when he first attended and hadnt simply 
turned the water off. 
Because of this hes had to make a separate claim for damage under his home insurance 
policy (also with Admiral). Hes unhappy hes had to pay an £800 excess and has lost his no 
claims discount (NCD). Hed like Admiral to pay him £800 to cover the money hes paid as 
an excess under that policy and to reinstate his NCD.
Mr Ts also unhappy that the engineer didnt attend once the leak reoccurred. Admiral 
have said this is because Mr T was verbally abusive over the phone. Mr T paid £96 when his 
own plumber completed the repairs. He asked Admiral to reimburse this cost under his home 
emergency insurance policy but they declined the claim. They said that the initial leak was 
caused by poor workmanship and this is excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Admiral had acted fairly when handling the claim and then in declining it. She 
said home emergency cover is intended to carry out a temporary fix and shes satisfied 
Admirals engineer did this when he attended. 
She also said there was no evidence to show the engineers actions caused the leak or any 
further damage. She said their decision to decline the claim was based on an experts 
opinion of what caused the leak and was done in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Mr T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He says:
His plumbers report proves that Admirals engineer was negligent and that the water 
supply was never turned off. 
He doesnt think a temporary fix should leave him without water. Hes explained the impact the home insurance claim has had on his health and would 
like compensation for this. He doesnt think he wouldve needed to go through this 
process if the engineer had provided a proper fix.
Hed like to be reimbursed the £96 he paid to have the leak repaired. He doesnt 
think Admiral should rely on their engineers report that the leak was caused by poor 
workmanship because he thinks the engineer was incompetent. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ts made a subsequent claim under his home insurance policy and am 
aware that hes expressed some concerns about how that claims being handled. These will 
need to be considered as a separate complaint. Ill only be considering Admirals handling of 
the home emergency claim in this decision. 
The terms of Mr Ts policy say:
We would always recommend that you arrange for a permanent repair, at your own 
cost, to be completed by a qualified tradesperson as soon as possible, once we have 
carried out an emergency repair and contained the emergency for you, as this may 
only provide a temporary solution to the problem. Permanent repairs are not covered 
under this policy.
Im satisfied this makes it clear that Admiral wont pay for lasting repairs. And I think the 
engineer did enough to fulfil the obligation under this policy term when he turned the water 
off because it prevented any further damage and contained the initial emergency. 
Turning to the question of what caused the second leak, there are only two reasonable 
explanations  either Admirals engineer didnt turn the water off or Mr T turned the water 
back on once the engineer had left. Ive had to consider whats more likely to have happened 
based on the balance of probability. 
Mr Ts argued that his plumbers report shows Admirals engineer was negligent and caused 
the second leak, so Admiral should be held accountable for the fact that hes had to claim 
under his home insurance policy. Mr Ts plumber said:
Call out main stop cock leaking find up to find previous plumber had left the job on a 
wing and a prayer how any plumber would leave a fitting like that is disgraceful refit 
new compression fittings and leave with no leak because the plumber who turned 
up before put a 22mm push fit coupling on 3/4 size plastic pipe how it held for more 
than 2 seconds is a miracle totally useless job
Mr T argues this shows Admirals plumber shouldve done more and he was the one to leave 
the job on a wing and a prayer.
Admirals engineer said:
Customer had their own plumber out and has badly installed pipework and used 
wrong fittings causing leak on wsp just before stopcock. Have turned water supply off 
customer may turned water supply back on as there is no water to the house but joint 
could burst and flood the house at any point. Will need plasson push fit fitting 14 to 
18mm and re run some pipeworkBoth reports talk about the badly installed pipework and fittings around the stopcock. But 
Admirals engineer only turned the water off. He didnt carry out any repairs or fit any pipes 
or fittings. Logically, Mr Ts plumber can only be talking about the original plumbers work 
and not Admirals engineers. So I dont agree this shows Admirals engineer was negligent 
in how he left the property. 
Furthermore, Admirals engineer first attended Mr Ts property at 2:50pm. Mr T didnt call 
Admiral again to report the second leak until 8:37pm. If the engineer hadnt turned the water 
off, the ongoing leak wouldve been apparent immediately. As it was, it wasnt reported for 
several hours. 
The evidence shows Admirals engineer gave Mr T fair warning that turning the water back 
on would likely flood the property and Mr T signed a job sheet to acknowledge this. Admirals 
engineer has speculated that Mr T may turn the water back on and has turned the water 
supply off to prevent further damage. This indicates that Mr T may have told the engineer 
that hed likely turn the water back on. This is further supported by Mr Ts comments in his 
complaint correspondence that he shouldnt be left without water. 
Based on this, I think its more likely that Mr T turned the water back on. Im satisfied theres 
no evidence to show Admirals engineer caused the second leak or was negligent. So I wont 
be asking Admiral to cover the £800 excess Mr T paid under his home insurance policy or to 
reinstate his NCD.  
Ive also had to consider whether Admiral should reimburse the costs Mr T incurred when he 
paid for the repair. The policy terms say Admiral wont cover:
5. Any defect, damage or failure caused by:
...You or your contractors malicious or wilful action, misuse or negligence
I think both experts reports are persuasive evidence that show what caused the initial leak 
at Mr Ts property. Mr Ts argued that Admirals engineers opinion isnt reliable because he 
didnt complete a more permanent repair before leaving the property. Im satisfied that hes a 
reputable engineer and his opinion is also in line with Mr Ts plumber about what caused the 
leak. Its fair that Admiral considered the incorrect fittings and badly installed pipework to be 
the result of negligence on the part of Mr Ts contractor. So, theyve fairly applied this policy 
term when declining to cover the £96 Mr T paid for the repair. 
Mr Ts also unhappy that Admirals engineer didnt re-attend when he called to report the 
second leak. Admiral have argued that the engineer called Mr T when he was on his way to 
the property. At this point theyve said Mr T swore at the engineer so he made the decision 
not to attend. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
Im sorry to hear of the impact the subsequent home insurance claim has had on Mr Ts 
health. I appreciate going through any insurance claim can be a stressful time. But I cant 
hold Admiral responsible for the fact that hes had to make this claim.  Im satisfied their 
engineer did everything he needed to under the terms of the policy and I cant see that he 
caused the second leak. Based on this, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything differently. 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman