DRN-4257090
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC sent personal information and his account details to an 
incorrect address. He also says Metro Bank is reporting incorrect information to his credit 
file.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr S applied for  and opened  a cash account with Metro Bank. Hed 
previously held other accounts with Metro Bank, all of which had been closed some years 
earlier.
 
Unfortunately, something happened during the account opening process which caused 
Mr Ss old customer profile, with outdated personal information, to be linked to his new 
application. This, in turn, meant the particulars for Mr Ss new account were sent to the 
wrong address. A text message was also sent to an incorrect mobile phone number. 
Around five months later, in March 2023, Mr S complained about what had happened. He 
said, in summary, that Metro Bank had failed to safeguard his personal data and breached 
data protection rules, which had caused him serious distress and inconvenience. 
Metro Bank sent Mr S its final response letter on 23 March. The bank upheld the complaint; 
it said it couldnt now determine why Mr Ss old customer profile had overridden his new 
application but, nonetheless, it accepted that this wouldve caused some distress and 
inconvenience. So, it offered to pay Mr S £75 in compensation.
 
After some further correspondence with Mr S, Metro Bank issued another letter on 11 April. 
This letter addressed Mr Ss concerns about a financial association on his credit file. It said, 
in brief, that Metro Bank wasnt responsible for removing such an association. Only Mr S 
could arrange for that to happen by liaising directly with the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). 
Mr S remained unhappy with Metro Banks response, so he contacted this Service for an 
independent review. An Investigator here looked at what had happened, and he didnt think 
Metro Bank had done enough to put things right. He said:
Theres no dispute that something went wrong with Mr Ss new account application, 
and that hed suffered distress and inconvenience because of Metro Banks error.
 
In the circumstances, given Mr Ss personal information had been sent to an 
incorrect address, and that hed then had to spend some time correcting things, 
increasing the compensation to £150 was more appropriate. 
It isnt for our Service to determine if any data protection regulation had been 
breached. Thats something for the Information Commissioners Office to decide.  
Nothing suggested that Metro Bank was reporting incorrect information to CRAs. 
Rather, if Mr S wanted a financial association removed, he would need to contact 
CRAs himself. 
Metro Bank accepted our Investigators findings, but Mr S disagreed. He said hed spoken 
with CRAs and had been told that Metro Bank did have the ability to amend his credit file. 
Additionally, having read some of our published final decisions regarding other cases, he felt 
the compensation award should be increased to £450. 
Our Investigator reiterated that, to his knowledge, CRAs were responsible for reviewing and 
amending financial associations; and the customer concerned had to raise such requests 
directly. The Investigator also explained that each complaint is determined on its own 
specific circumstances. So, while other cases may have seen higher compensation awards, 
it didnt inevitably follow that a similar award should apply here. 
Mr S still disagreed, and he asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill say first that I hope Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on each 
and every point hes made. Instead, Ive kept things deliberately concise. Thats because our 
role is to be informal, and my approach here is simply to align with that purpose.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. Again, this just reflects the informal 
nature of our Service as a free alternative to the Courts. 
Turning first to Mr Ss new account application; theres no dispute that Metro Bank did 
something wrong. Mr Ss old customer profile shouldnt have overruled the new details he 
provided when completing his account application in October 2022, but it did. I can 
understand why that wouldve caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr S, and I am 
truly sorry to hear of the impact hes said it had on him. 
I do, though, think that Metro Bank has now agreed to do enough to put things right. I was 
pleased to note that it acted quickly to correct Mr Ss details when it was made aware of 
what had happened, so the underlying issue was ultimately addressed and fixed. Moreover, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr S suffered a financial loss as a result of 
Metro Banks error. 
I understand Mr S feels more compensation is fitting here; hes drawn parallels between his 
complaint and other cases put before this Service. But just as our Investigator said, each 
complaint is determined on its own individual merit. Outcomes can be different across what, 
on the face of it, appear to be similar if not identical complaints. This is often down to the 
nuances and individual circumstances of a particular case. 
Ill add, as a final point here, that Im not bound by what colleagues may have decided on 
other cases. So, with all of that in mind, Im satisfied that Metro Bank has now agreed to pay 
Mr S an appropriate amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Ill also echo what our Investigator said about a breach of data protection rules; and reiterate 
that its not for this Service to determine if a breach has occurred. If Mr S wants to follow that 
up separately, he should contact the ICO directly to do so. Aside from the above, Ive looked at what Mr S has said about his credit file. I can appreciate 
why he wants to make sure any reporting is accurate, thats entirely understandable. But I 
dont think Metro Bank is responsible for taking any further action to remove or amend a 
financial association. 
To explain, CRAs hold and report information that is obtained from several sources  both 
public and private: such as local authorities, the Courts, or banks and credit card companies. 
That generally means that if an individual believes something is being reported incorrectly, 
they can raise the issue to the relevant business or organisation. So, broadly, Mr S isnt 
wrong when he says Metro Bank does have the ability to influence his credit file.
Some information, though, like financial associations, is something Mr S must raise with 
CRAs directly. I know our Investigator has already pointed Mr S to some material set out on 
CRA websites which explains this in more detail. So, while I appreciate that he says hes 
already done so, Id suggest Mr S contact the CRAs directly to discuss this further. 
In any event, I dont know exactly whats reported on Mr Ss credit file; hes said hes unable 
to provide a copy of it. But from the information I have available, theres nothing which leads 
me to conclude that Metro Bank should take further action in this regard. 
In closing then, to sum up, I can surely understand why Mr S has lost some trust and 
confidence in Metro Bank. That said, for the reasons Ive explained above, I think 
Metro Bank has now agreed to do enough to put things right. So, it should arrange to pay 
Mr S £150 in resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC should now pay Mr S £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman