DRN-2530084
The complaint
Ms M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk was 
irresponsible to give her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
In December 2017 Ms M took out a loan for £400 with MoneyBoat  due to be repaid by six 
monthly instalments of around £115. 
Ms M said that MoneyBoat didnt properly check affordability before lending to her. She told 
us that she was in a bad financial situation and this loan made things worse.
When Ms M complained to MoneyBoat it didn't agree that it had done anything wrong and so 
she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan to Ms M as the checks 
MoneyBoat did showed that it wasnt likely that Ms M wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay the loan. Our adjudicator set out the steps he said MoneyBoat should take to put 
things right for Ms M. 
MoneyBoat mainly said it did proportionate checks  especially bearing in mind this was 
Ms Ms first (and only) loan. And that whilst we might say it should've looked at all the 
information it had, MoneyBoat said it was impractical to review every line of a credit file for 
every loan. MoneyBoat told us that in the early stages of a lending relationship its processes 
are automated so that it can offer a quick and efficient service to borrowers who might be in 
need of urgent short term finance. 
MoneyBoat has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Ms Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Ms M. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Ms M could sustainably 
make her repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations 
define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should 
be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Ms M to provide details of her income and to tell MoneyBoat what she 
normally spent each month. 
Looking at what MoneyBoat had recorded about Ms Ms income and expenditure, it appears 
that Ms Ms monthly take home pay was £1689. After taking account of all the expenses she 
expected to have to pay that month, including £150 for credit expenditure, Ms M appeared to 
have around £539 of disposable income left over when she was applying for this loan. 
But that information wasnt supported by the information shown on its credit checks that 
MoneyBoat sent to us. 
MoneyBoat could see from the credit checks it did that the monthly credit repayments Ms M 
had to make before she applied for this loan appeared to be already in excess of £1300. 
Ive carefully considered what MoneyBoat has said about this. But I dont think it was 
reasonable for MoneyBoat to conclude that it was likely that Ms M would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way given the information it held that appeared to show she didnt 
have enough money to pay for it. 
So Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
So MoneyBoat should: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, fees and 
charges on this loan, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Ms M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries MoneyBoat has recorded on Ms Ms credit file for this 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to take the steps set out above to put things right for Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman