DRN-3731289
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to collect the correct amount of 
pension contributions from his employer and failed to claim tax relief on his contributions. He 
also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr G has a personal pension account with Aviva. In August 2020 he says he arranged for 
monthly contributions from his salary to be made directly by his employer into his pension. 
His employer would also make contributions to his pension.
Mr Gs salary increased on 1 January 2021 and again on 1 January 2022. Mr G says he 
complained to Aviva when it failed to increase his contributions in January 2021 and Aviva 
only resolved that matter in May 2021. He says that it has taken Aviva until September 2022 
to increase his contributions following his January 2022 pay increase. 
Mr G wrote to Aviva in December 2021 and queried why it had not added tax relief to his 
contributions. Aviva asked him to provide salary details from his employer. Mr G provided 
these details on 1 February 2022 and he also informed Aviva at that time about his recent 
salary increase.
Despite several follow up requests from Mr G, Aviva did not respond. Mr G referred the 
matter to our service and our investigator asked Aviva to issue a final response letter.
Aviva issued its final response letter on 17 August 2022. It said Mr G had completed an 
application form in October 2020 but it wasnt clear from that form how his contributions were 
split between him and his employer. Because of this his payments had been set up as gross 
payments from his employer. Aviva asked Mr G to confirm that he didnt get taxed at source 
on his contributions. Mr G confirmed this and Aviva agreed to make the necessary changes 
to rectify the matter from October 2020. It also agreed to backdate the increase in his 
contributions from January 2022.
Aviva said that when investigating Mr Gs complaint it had identified an error in how it had 
allocated his contributions. It said it had also rectified this matter. It noted he hadnt suffered 
any financial loss as a result of this error.
Aviva apologised for the errors it had made. It acknowledged there had been significant 
delay responding to Mr Gs concerns and it offered to pay him £250 by way of compensation 
for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr G did not agree. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She considered the 
application form that Mr G had completed in October 2020. She said it wasnt clear from that 
form that contributions were split between the employer and the employee. She thought 
Aviva had acted fairly when it agreed to correct the policy and apply the tax relief to Mr Gs 
contributions from October 2020. 
Aviva had also identified it had made an error in how it had allocated Mr Gs contributions. 
He wasnt aware of that error until Aviva had told him and Aviva had corrected the matter. 
Mr G hadnt suffered any financial loss or any upset because of this error. Our investigator 
thought Aviva had acted fairly in how it had dealt with this matter.
Aviva had provided poor service to Mr G. He had given it enough information on 1 February 
2022 to resolve the issues hed raised about his contributions, including the increase from 1 
January 2022. But Aviva hadnt agreed to resolve the issues until 17 August 2022. Aviva had 
acknowledged the trouble and upset its delays had caused. It had offered to pay Mr G £250. 
Our investigator didnt think this was enough. She thought Aviva should pay Mr G £350 by 
way of compensation.
Aviva accepted what our investigator said. It wrote to Mr G to confirm the corrections it had 
made but it said there was a shortfall of £69.92 in his contributions - which it asked him to 
pay.
Mr G did not agree. He provided details of his historical contributions which showed a small 
overpayment. Aviva apologised. It accepted what Mr G had told it and asked him to confirm 
how he wanted it to deal with the overpayment.
Mr G did not agree that £350 was adequate compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused and he referred to the further error made by Aviva when it had attempted to 
rectify the matter. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised two main issues. Ill comment on each of these separately:
Tax relief on his contributions from October 2020
Mr G and his employer filled out a form entitled Personal Pension & GPP- Supplementary 
Application Form and submitted this to Aviva in November 2020. Aviva says the form 
instructed it to set the contributions up as employer only. 
Mr G says that the form was complicated, his employer is a small company without specialist 
HR and payroll specialists and Aviva shouldve provided advice.
Ive looked at the form which was signed by Mr G and his employer in November 2020. 
There was a section on the form entitled Your payments. Although information had been populated into this section of the form, the section had been scored through. It had included 
information that Your total regular payment was £{specified amount} gross each month.
In the section of the form entitled Your employers payments and deductions under the 
sub-heading Your employees payment the following information was completed:
Will you be deducting the employees payment from their pay? [Tick] Yes
Under the subheading Employers total regular payment information was included to state 
the total gross monthly payment to be collected by Direct Debit. The Declaration by the 
employer also confirmed that the members payment would be deducted from [his] 
earnings, net of basic rate tax.
Having considered the information on the form, I think it shouldve been clear to Aviva, 
notwithstanding that the section about Your payments had been scored through, that 
clarification was required from Mr G. I say this because there was reference to the 
employees payment in the section of the form which was not scored through. In these 
circumstances, I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable to have expected Aviva to 
contact Mr G or his employer when it received the form to check the instruction. If it had 
done that, I think the issue regarding the split of contributions and whether Mr G was getting 
tax relief at source on his contributions, couldve been resolved at the outset. 
Ive then considered whether Mr G has suffered any financial loss as a result of Aviva not 
contacting him at the outset. Aviva has now said it will take appropriate action to make sure 
Mr Gs policy reflects tax relief from 2020. And Mr G seems to accept that this resolution will 
prevent him from having suffered a financial loss. So, I agree Aviva should rework Mr Gs 
policy to take account of any tax relief he was eligible for in line with HMRC rules where 
applicable.  
Mr G appears to have first brought this issue to Avivas attention in his email of 1 February 
2022. It took Aviva until 17 August 2022 to revert to him about the issue and it wasnt 
resolved until September 2022  almost 8 months after he first raised the matter and only 
after he referred a complaint to our service. Aviva has acknowledged the significant delay 
in responding to Mr G. It has accepted that Mr G experienced trouble and upset as a result 
of that delay and it has offered to pay him £250 by way of compensation. Ill comment further 
about whether I think thats enough below.
Increasing his contributions from January 2022
Mr G says that his salary increased on 1 January 2022 but Aviva didnt increase the amount 
it was collecting from his employer until September 2022. Aviva has now backdated the 
increased contributions to January 2022.
Ive noted on the Personal Pension & GPP- Supplementary Application Form, referred to 
above, the Declaration which Mr G signed included the following:
..I want my employer to inform Aviva of any changes to my paymentsTheres no evidence that when Mr Gs salary increased in January 2022, his employer 
informed Aviva that the contributions were to change. I wouldve expected it to do this, so 
that Aviva could arrange to increase the amount it was collecting by Direct Debit each 
month. Ive noted, however that Mr G himself informed Aviva about this matter in his email of 
1 February 2022. 
As mentioned above Aviva didnt respond to Mr Gs email until August 2022. But, it has now 
agreed to rectify matters - albeit Ive noted that Mr G had to go back to Aviva to correct 
errors in its rectification calculations. Aviva has now confirmed that Mr G has made a small 
overpayment and has asked him to confirm how he wants that to be dealt with.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Aviva has now agreed to resolve the 
two issues which Mr G brought to its attention in February 2022. It has also resolved another 
problem (concerning how payments were allocated) which it identified when it was 
investigating this matter. 
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr G has not experienced any financial loss as a result of what 
happened. Aviva has agreed to take action to put him back into the position he wouldve 
been in if it had collected the correct amount of contributions from him and if it had claimed 
tax relief on those contributions. He also didnt suffer any loss as a result of his payments 
having been incorrectly allocated.
Aviva has acknowledged that there were significant delays and its service has been poor. It 
offered Mr G £250 for the trouble and upset he was caused as a result of the delays. Our 
investigator thought it should increase this amount to £350 and Aviva has agreed to do this. 
Aviva has offered explanations for the delays but I dont think they are satisfactory. Aviva 
had responded to the initial query Mr G raised in December 2021 and asked him for further 
information shortly after that. He provided the additional information on 1 February 2022 but 
despite repeated follow up requests, Aviva failed to respond until after our investigator 
contacted it. In these circumstances, having thought about the significant delay here, I agree 
with our investigator that £250 is not enough compensation. I think its fair and reasonable to 
require Aviva to increase this amount to £350 for the trouble and upset Mr G experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
I now require it to take the following actions:
If it has not done so already, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should re-work the 
contributions made to Mr Gs pension for the period from October 2020 to take 
account of any tax relief he was eligible for in line with HMRC rules (as applicable); 
and
Pay Mr G £350 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced as 
a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman