DRN-4127186
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited after he made a 
claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr W made a claim under his home insurance (home emergency) policy with 
Aviva after discovering that the lock of the external side door to his property was damaged. 
When he first called, Aviva told him he didnt have a policy in place, but the matter was 
resolved when he called back the following day. An engineer attended his property that 
evening. 
Mr W says that when the engineer tried to fix the lock, he damaged the mechanism. The 
engineer left after securing the door with three pieces of wood. 
About a week later, Mr W raised a complaint with Aviva because he hadnt heard back from 
it. Aviva sent another engineer to his property. The engineer wasnt able to find a suitable 
replacement lock and concluded that the door would need replacing. 
Aviva apologised for an administration error that caused the initial confusion regarding       
Mr Ws policy and claim, and for not keeping Mr W aware of the process after the initial visit. 
However, it didnt agree that the engineer was responsible for the damage to the lock. It said 
it had reviewed both engineers reports and the accompanying photos which confirm an 
attempted break-in was the root cause of damage to the cylinder, and the locks internal 
mechanism collapsed in the course of the repair. It said that further damage caused by the 
engineer having to remove the jammed lock was an unavoidable consequence of attempting 
the repair.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She thought the overall evidence showed the 
engineer had caused further damage to Mr Ws door. She recommended Aviva replace      
Mr Ws door.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators outcome. It provided further comments about what it 
believed had happened. It said the door was already broken when the first engineer arrived 
at the property and was never repairable. Mr W had not been left in a worse position, as the 
door was not secure when the engineer arrived, and the door was left secure. Aviva 
provided a call recording to show that Mr W had said the door was not secure when he 
made the claim.
Mr W said that when the lock had come loose, hed placed it back in and secured the door. 
He had placed a barricade behind for peace of mind, even though he had turned the handle 
and the door was secure. He said he called Aviva for someone to check the door status. He 
said that when the first engineer arrived, he had to use the key to open the door.
Our investigator told Aviva that the further information it had provided hadnt made a 
difference to her view and shed pass the case to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say:
You are covered for damage to roofing, external windows and doors, broken locks and loss 
of keys.
If a security or roofing incident happens, we will protect your property from further damage or 
make sure the property is secure (or both).
In the list of the examples of what Aviva will cover it says:
Repair of broken locks for external windows and doors if the property is insecure.
The policy terms also say that unless its stated in what is covered, we will not cover you for 
any damage that may be caused to the property, its contents, fixtures, fittings, floorings or 
sanitary ware (unless the damage is caused by our engineers negligence).
Aviva says it isnt liable for any damage to the door. The engineer didnt damage the door, it 
was already broken when he arrived at the property and was never repairable. It says the 
door wasnt secure when the engineer arrived, and he made it secure in line with the policys 
terms and conditions.
The report from the first engineers visit says he attended the property after a break in to the 
side door. It says: The attempted method was to snap the euro cylinder but in the process 
of this they must have damaged the mechanism because when I changed the euro cylinder 
parts of the gearbox inside the door collapsed. Jamming the lock not allowing me to close 
the door [sic] To remove the old mechanism In [sic] order to secure the door I had to cause 
damage to the mechanism and pull it out of the door
Mr W disputes the accuracy of this. He says the engineer was able to replace the cylinder in 
the door. He turned the lock a few times and all was in order. However, when he was 
finishing off by placing the faceplate, he had difficulty screwing in the bottom screw. He says 
it couldnt go further because it was too long, so the engineer went to get some more 
screws. When he was trying to remove the screw, he damaged the screw head and couldnt 
get it out, even when he tried using pliers. The screw was wedged in the plate and frame. 
Mr W has provided a photograph he took straight afterwards which shows a screw 
protruding from the lock. He says the engineer took the lock back to his van and cut down 
the screw, before bringing it back. The photograph Aviva has provided from the engineers 
visit appears to support this. 
I acknowledge what Aviva has said about the door not being secure when Mr W made his 
claim. However, Mr W says he was able to close the door and lock it, but he was concerned it might not be secure. Mr W says that when the engineer arrived, he gave him a key and he 
opened the door and advised he would put a more secure cylinder in. 
It seems likely that the issue would have been resolved if the engineer had successfully 
installed the cylinder. I appreciate Aviva believes that the damage to the mechanism was 
unavoidable because of what the engineer said about the gearbox collapsing. However, Im 
more persuaded by Mr Ws version events  that the damage to the mechanism was caused 
by the engineer being unable to remove the screw hed put in in error. I say this because   
Mr W has given detailed and consistent testimony about what happened, and this is 
supported by the photographs. 
On balance, I think the damage was likely to have been caused by the engineers 
negligence. So, I think Aviva is responsible for putting things right.
Aviva says it isnt possible to replace the mechanism of the door due to its age. So, it seems 
the best way to put things right for Mr W would be for Aviva to replace the door.
Putting things right
Aviva should replace Mr Ws damaged door.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman