DRN-2543822
The complaint
Mr W complains that Next Retail Limited hasnt properly collected payments using his direct 
debit details and his account has fallen into arrears and been transferred to a third-party 
collection agency.
What happened
Mr W wasnt able to make repayments to his Next credit account and he missed two 
repayments in February and March 2019. Next cancelled Mr Ws direct debit in March 2019.
In July 2019 Next agreed a repayment plan with Mr W but the repayments were not made 
and so this was cancelled on 16 August 2019. Another repayment arrangement was made 
on 21 August 2019 and the direct debit was re-instated. Mr W did not make all of the agreed 
repayments and so the arrangement was cancelled in October 2019. Although Mr W did 
make a repayment it was not for the full amount and a default notice was issued on 4 
November 2019. Mr W didnt make the required payment set out in the default notice and the 
account was transferred to Nexts own in-house recovery team.
Another arrangement was made with Mr W in December 2019 after the account was 
transferred to the debt recovery team. Mr W didnt keep to the repayments and so this was 
cancelled in July 2020 and the account was transferred to an external debt recovery agent.
Mr W complained to Next that he thought that the amounts agreed in December 2019 were 
being collected via direct debit and the money was in his account. Mr W explained that the 
direct debit was showing as active at his bank and he wasnt aware that he needed to pay in 
a different way. He complained that this is setting up consumers to fail and Next hasnt 
worked with him to find a workable solution.
Next said that it does not accept repayments via direct debit after a default notice has been 
sent. It said that the letters it sent to Mr W made it clear that direct debit was not an accepted 
form of payment and it has acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and they didnt think that Next had done 
anything wrong. They thought that the letters Next sent to to Mr W made it clear that direct 
debit was not an accepted payment method and he needed to arrange to repay the debt in a 
different way.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and said that on previous occasions the direct debit 
had been re-instated and there was no reason for Next not to do so on this occasion. He 
said that it was always his intention to repay the debt. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at all of the information provided and reviewed it afresh. The details 
of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again in my decision 
and instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my conclusions.
The direct debit was cancelled in March 2019 but re-instated when Mr W agreed a 
repayment plan in July 2019. So I can understand the point Mr W is making when he says 
that he thought that the direct debit would be re-started after he agreed another repayment 
plan in December 2019.
Next explains that it doesnt accept repayments via direct debit after a default notice has 
been sent. The letter that was sent to Mr W on 12 December 2019 explaining the repayment 
arrangement makes it clear that the payments should be made by Mr W by the 29 of each 
month and the ways to pay are detailed on the reverse of the letter. Direct debit is not listed 
as a repayment method and the letter doesnt suggest that repayments will be collected in 
this way.
As I said, I can understand why Mr W may have thought his direct debit details were being 
used to collect repayments, but I cant say that Next is responsible for this. 
Mr W didnt check whether the repayments had been collected via direct debit and didnt 
notice that repayments hadnt been made. I can understand why he might not have thought 
to check given his understanding that the direct debit was active. But I cant say that Next 
should have used the direct debit details it held for Mr W to collect repayments or allowed 
him to pay this way even though it had done so previously.
I can understand why Mr W is disappointed that the account has been transferred to a third-
party debt recovery company but because he didnt ensure his repayments were made on 
time as agreed I cant say that Next has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman