DRN-2822015
The complaint
Mr M complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given two loans by 118 118 Money as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 11/07/2017 06/12/2017 24 £3,500.00 £271.58
2 21/08/2018 Write off 24 £2,250.00 £212.49
Mr M brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with 118 118 
Money. He mainly complained that 118 118 Money provided him with unaffordable 
loans when he already had a high level of borrowing. He also felt that the interest on 
the loans was excessive and this has made repayment even more difficult.
And Mr M was unhappy that there was a delay before 118 118 Money responded to his 
complaint.   
Mr Ms complaint about loan 1 has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought 
118 118 Money did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide both loans and that there 
wasnt anything it saw that meant it shouldnt have provided the loans or prompted it to 
verify information Mr M had provided.
So our adjudicator wasnt able to say that the loans shouldnt have been agreed and he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Our adjudicator didnt comment on the other complaint points that Mr M had mentioned. 
Mr M said he wasnt happy with our adjudicators view. He has also told us that hes 
unhappy that 118 118 Money has sold his debt and that hed like us to uphold his 
complaint and remove all the loan interest hes paid from the balance owing.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive followed it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr M and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay loan 1 in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr M?
When Mr M completed an online application for these loans, 118 118 Money gathered 
some information from Mr M before it agreed to lend. The same process was followed 
both times he applied. 118 118 Money asked Mr M for details of his income and monthly expenditure. It used industry standard verification checks to validate the 
information Mr M had provided in his application. 
In all main respects, Mr Ms circumstances were broadly the same for each loan. Mr M said 
he was living at home with parents and that his net monthly income was £1,530. It seems he 
told 118 118 Money that his monthly outgoings were around £350 on one application and 
didnt exceed £500 on the other  and he declared both times that this included credit card 
repayments of £200. 
Mr M doesnt think 118 118 Money checked his financial situation properly before lending to 
him. 
In order for Mr Ms complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate 
checks would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
118 118 Money has sent me undated credit reports - but these cover the period of the loans 
and give me an insight into the information it couldve seen on Mr Ms credit file before 
providing these loans.
When he took out loan 1 he had some open credit card accounts  and thats consistent with 
the information Mr M put on his loan application. But theres nothing to suggest any serious 
money management issues. Theres no information to suggest that Mr M had experienced 
any significant difficulty repaying his previous borrowing  no indicators of insolvency or 
county court judgements or significant defaults is shown on his credit file. Although there 
was a record of multiple short term loans on his credit file, these had mostly been settled. It 
looks like Mr M probably had only 2 or 3 open unsecured loans when he was applying for 
loan 1 and I think its fair to say that I wouldnt expect his use of credit to have caused 118 
118 Money to be particularly concerned. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to say that 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided 
loan 1 to Mr M. I think the loan wouldve appeared to be affordable for him and there wasnt 
anything in the information a proportionate check wouldve revealed that ought to have 
prompted a reasonable lender to decline Mr Ms loan application. 
In the event Mr M repaid loan 1 early  and hed given 118 118 Money no indication that 
hed found it hard to make those loan repayments. 
When Mr M applied again to 118 118 Money for his second loan, this time he asked to 
borrow a smaller loan amount  and the monthly repayments were going to be less. So 
I dont think 118 118 Money had any reason to think hed be likely to have any problem this 
time making the monthly repayments given what hed said about his home circumstances 
and financial situation and his track record paying loan 1. These repayments looked like they 
ought to be comfortably affordable for Mr M.
I can see that 118 118 Money wouldve likely been able to see that Mr M had some adverse 
information showing on his credit record. Hed been taking out multiple loans since he 
started loan 1  but his record showed a positive payment history. The vast bulk of that 
borrowing had been successfully repaid. When he applied for loan 2 he still had his credit 
card accounts and now a mail order account as well as some unsecured borrowing 
outstanding. 
But I think this was information that a high cost lender might reasonably expect to see on a 
customers credit report and to my mind it wasnt enough to make a reasonable lender think 
that it should decline the loan application. I think it was reasonable for 118 118 Money to rely on the information Mr M declared and 
what it learned from the checks it carried out. And it was reasonable to conclude that 
loan 2 looked like it ought to be sustainably affordable for Mr M and that it was fair to lend 
to him. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about the high cost of the loans. I think there was a 
very large amount of interest payable on these loans and I can appreciate that Mr M might 
now feel this was unfair. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings when these loans were set up. 118 118 Money 
explained the overall cost of the loans and the monthly repayments  which Mr M confirmed 
were affordable for him. The loan documents set out the terms and the amounts of interest 
payable. Mr M had to actively engage in the loan application process each time.  
Taking everything into account, I think Mr M was aware he was taking very high cost loans 
on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think 118 118 Money had any 
reason to think that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans and it went 
ahead only when it had explained the main loan costs and Mr M said he wanted to proceed. 
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
This means that as things stand, Im not planning to uphold Mr Ms irresponsible lending 
complaint. 
has 118 118 Money acted unfairly in any other way?  
Im sorry that Mr M has found it hard to keep up the monthly repayments on loan 2. But I've 
seen nothing to make me think that 118 118 Money treated him unfairly in any respect. At 
my request, 118 118 Money has sent us its contact notes showing what happened when 
Mr M emailed requesting an interest freeze and offering a payment of £50 per month.
118 118 Money carried out a further credit check at that point and noted that Mr Ms 
accounts were up to date. It also asked Mr M for bank statements and a list of his creditors 
along with information about when accounts had been opened and the amount of the 
monthly repayments. 
As far as I can see 118 118 Money responded reasonably and in a constructive way to try 
and find out why Mr M was reporting payment problems so soon after the loan started. And 
although Mr M failed to provide bank statements or all the information it asked for 118 118 
Money agreed Mr M could pay £50 per month for the next 3 months starting on 1 April 
2018. 118 118 Money also pointed Mr M towards the advice available for help managing 
debt. It assured Mr M that it would not be adding extra interest or charges to his account. 
It looks like 118 118 Money continued to try and work with Mr M when he requested an 
extension to the payment arrangement.
I cant fairly say that 118 118 Money didnt respond positively and sympathetically when 
Mr M reported payment problems. And it was entitled to take steps to deal with the debt - 
including selling on the debt to a third-party debt collection agent.  
Ive also I've taken into account that Mr M was unhappy that there was a delay before 118 
118 Money sent its final response letter when he complained. But I havent seen enough to 
make me think this is a reason for me to award any redress and I am satisfied that all the 
complaint issues that Mr M has mentioned have now been fully addressed. I havent seen enough overall to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr M in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So Im not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint or direct 118 118 Money to take any action.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M told me what his current repayment arrangements are  and says this is the most he 
can afford. 
118 118 Money hasnt made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman