DRN-3124915
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr T took out a loan with Everyday Loans for £1,500. He said the loan was 
to consolidate his debts and pay for some home improvements. The loan was taken out over 
24 months with an APR of 249.5% and his monthly repayments were £183.42 making the 
total repayable £4,402.08. 
In July 2018 Mr T applied for another loan from Everyday Loans. He said the purpose of this 
loan was to pay for a holiday. He borrowed £2,750 and repaid the original loan. The second 
loan was taken out over 24 months with an APR of 199.6% and his monthly repayments 
were £304.48 making the total repayable £7,307.52.
Mr T complained that Everyday Loans hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans.
Everyday Loans looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Mr T referred his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint in part. She thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have 
made the second loan. Everyday Loans agreed but as Mr T thought it also shouldnt have 
made the first loan, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr T would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to the first question Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained and 
reviewed Mr Gs bank statements for one month, one months payslip and a credit search. It 
also checked where he worked. 
Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out checks which showed: 
Mr T had two county court judgments, one of which was unsatisfied. Mr T provided 
Everyday Loans with evidence that the second county court judgment had also been 
paid.
His monthly income from salary and benefits was £2,347.38.
He and his partner paid £400 a month in rent.
He had four payday loans and owed £623 on his credit card..
His current account was slightly overdrawn.Everyday Loans said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense 
element of affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, 
region, household composition and residential status. They also said they applied a buffer to 
the living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the 
customers circumstances or one-off additional expenses. It said its affordability calculation 
showed that Mr T would have a monthly disposable income of £339.70 after taking into 
account his Everyday Loan monthly repayments.
With regard to the county court judgments it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high 
cost loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and 
these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a 
loan application.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case and didnt indicate 
that the repayments on the loan were likely to be unsustainable for Mr T. In summary, I dont 
find the loan was unaffordable to Mr T. Im satisfied Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision. 
Loan 2
By the time Mr T came to take out the second loan with Everyday Loans, his salary was 
about the same but his expenditure had increased to £1,997.08 a month. Using the same 
statistical data and figures, Everyday Loans calculated that hed have disposable income of 
£169.63 after taking out the new loan.
However Everyday Loans was aware at this point that Mr T had had difficulty in repaying the 
first loan almost from the outset. It had been in regular contact with him over the period of 
the first loan about missed or late repayments. Hed also told it at one stage that his bank 
had recalled his overdraft. Since he was already struggling to keep up repayments of 
£183.42 a month, I think it should have been obvious to Everyday Loans that it would be 
even more of a challenge for Mr T to repay the second loan at a rate of £304.48 a month. I 
dont think the loan was affordable to Mr T. Im not satisfied Everyday Loans made a fair 
lending decision. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding second loan, it should buy it back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr T as payments towards the capital amount of 
£2,750;
if Mr T has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Loans should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr T;
remove any adverse information about the second loan from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right for Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman