DRN-3274173
The complaint
Mr P complains that Marsh Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Marsh 
Finance. Mr P was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £438. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £26,273.
Mr P says that Marsh Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says he had 
a county court judgement and was making use of payday loans and if adequate affordability 
checks hand taken place Marsh Finance would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Marsh Finance didnt agree. It said that at the time of the application it gathered payslips and 
a bank statement from Mr P. However, it noted that its checks were undertaken based on 
the April pay slip and February bank statement and that further information should have 
been gathered. It received further information from Mr P as part of its investigation and said 
having assessed his income and expenditure in the months leading up the agreement, the 
repayments were affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Marsh Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said his income was assessed after the finance was provided and that 
his overtime payments were included even though he had said these werent regular. He 
didnt accept that the affordability assessment took into account all of his regular 
expenditure. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, Marsh Finance has accepted that further information should 
have been assessed. Following Mr Ps complaint, it reassessed the borrowing based on 
Mr Ps banks statements in the months leading up to the agreement. Ive considered this 
information along with the information contained in Mr Ps credit report and thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
Mr P provided a copy of a recent credit report. This may not include all information that 
would have ben available at the time the agreement was provided, but what it does show 
from that time doesnt raise concerns and so based on this information I do not find I can say 
the finance shouldnt have been provided.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr P received a regular monthly salary as well CSA payments and transfers from another 
party. The average of Mr Ps monthly salary payments in the three months leading up to the 
agreement was just over £2,000. I note Mr Ps comments about his income including 
overtime which wasnt regular however having looked at his payslips these show a basic 
annual salary of just over £30,000 (which gives a monthly net income of around £2,000) and 
in the year to February 2018 (11 months of pay) Mr P had earnings over £37,000 (which 
would suggest a higher average income figure). So, I think a monthly income figure of just 
over £2,000 is reasonable. Additional to this he received CSA payments which averaged 
around £130 a month. There were also regular transfers into and from his account from 
another party. However, having considered these I can see they generally net off and so I 
havent included these in the assessment. Excluding the transfers Mr Ps monthly income 
averaged around £2,150 over the three months.
Marsh Finance calculated Mr Ps regular committed monthly expenditure at the time as 
around £1,600. I calculated a lower number (excluding transfers as set out above) so I 
consider the £1,600 reasonable. This amount included credit commitments, food, petrol and 
insurances. Against a monthly income of around £2,150 this suggests the agreement was 
affordable but with very little left for any unforeseen events. However, I note the calculation 
of the expenses includes payment for Mr Ps previous car finance of around £290 which was 
settled when this new agreement was provided. Therefore, having reviewed the bank 
statements and Mr Ps income and expenses from the time I do not find that Im persuaded 
that Marsh Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman