DRN-2898354
The complaint
Mr C complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) failed to send him a new password to 
access his account. As a result, Mr C says he missed out on an investment opportunity. 
What happened
Mr C contacted CBS on 13 October 2020 and explained his computer had broken which 
meant he had lost his password. CBS agreed to send Mr C a letter to help him set a new 
password online and said it should be received around a week later. 
Mr C contacted CBS again on 19 October 2020 as no letter had been received. A new letter 
was arranged and sent to Mr C. Mr C was cut off and called CBS back. Mr C complained 
about the delay in sending the new password instructions and service provided.
In November 2020 Mr C spoke with a complaint handler at CBS but didnt reach an 
agreement and the call was cut off after a period of silence. CBS responded to Mr Cs 
complaint and offered a total of £150 to apologise for the service provided. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
CBS had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C has 
explained he feels the delay in sending him the password reset letter meant he was unable 
to invest his funds and led to a loss. Mr C asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the available phone calls between Mr C and CBS. Ive also listened to 
Mr Cs call with a manager at this service and the investigators to ensure I understand the 
basis of his concerns. I agree there was a delay in CBS sending Mr C the information he 
needed to reset his password. And its clear the service provided was poor at times. Some of 
the calls Mr C had with CBS shouldve been handled better and I can understand why he 
was upset. 
Mr C told us he missed out on the chance to invest funds held with CBS due to the delay in 
receiving password reset instructions. I recently asked Mr C to provide evidence of his 
losses. I asked Mr C to send me some evidence of the investments he intended to make. I 
also asked Mr C to send me evidence of the arrangements he had in place to make those 
investments. Mr C has sent in evidence that shows in the months before he tried to withdraw 
funds from CBS he purchased a substantial amount of silver coins. 
Ive looked at the delay Mr C experienced and can see CBS error led to him having to wait 
around an additional five to six days to receive his password reset letter. Mr C has explained 
that, after the delay, he decided not to proceed to make an investment. So the funds have 
remained in his CBS account since that time.
Id like to thank Mr C for providing additional information. I can see he has experience of 
buying metals and understand he had intentions to continue when he contacted CBS. I 
listened to Mr Cs call with our investigator and he discussed an intention to buy at a low 
price and sell at a higher price a short time later. The issue I have is that whilst Mr C has a 
history of buying coins, he hasnt given us evidence that shows he has previously traded in 
the short term way hes described. In addition, Mr C has told our investigator that he 
intended to purchase around 7 October 2020 and sell about five days later. But Mr C didnt 
contact CBS to ask for help resetting his password until 13 October 2020 so wouldnt have 
been able to buy on those dates. 
Ive looked at the trading information Mr C sent us using dates from the period after Mr C 
called CBS to request a password on 13 October 2020. I appreciate there was a delay of 
around a week in Mr C being able to reset his password. But I think Mr C could still have 
proceeded with his plans once his password was reset on 22 October 2020. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but I havent found grounds to tell CBS to cover the investments losses hes 
raised. 
As Ive said above, I agree CBS provided poor service to Mr C in this case and that it 
delayed sending the password reset letter. I also agree Mr Cs calls were handled poorly at 
times. CBS paid Mr C £150 and apologised for the service provided. Ive considered 
everything Mr C has told us about how the issues raised have impacted him. In my view, 
£150 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset caused by CBS in this case, so Im not 
telling it to increase the settlement. As Im satisfied CBS has dealt with Mr Cs complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Coventry Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman