DRN-3492863
The complaint
Mr W complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) who didnt repair his 
phone with genuine parts, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W had gadget insurance with AIG and dropped his phone which resulted in the screen 
breaking. He made a claim and AIG sent a technician to his home. Whilst the technician was 
there, Mr W said that he asked him if the part that he was replacing would be a genuine 
manufacturers part, to which the technician said it would. The phone was repaired. But later, 
Mr W discovered that the replacement part was not a genuine manufacturers part, so he 
complained to AIG. 
In its final response, it said that under the policy terms and conditions it allowed for non-
genuine parts to be used in the repair of the phone. It also acknowledged that Mr W was 
mis-advised by its technician and for the upset this caused, it offered £10 compensation. 
Mr W was given his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. The basis of 
his complaint was that AIG had agreed that he had been misinformed by its technician, so 
his phone should be repaired with a genuine part. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think that it should be upheld. 
He said that AIG were permitted under the policy terms to use non-branded parts to 
complete repairs. He also concluded that the £10 offered by way of compensation, was fair 
as it recognised the poor level of customer service that Mr W experienced. So, there was 
nothing further he could reasonably ask AIG to do. 
AIG accepted the view, Mr W did not. He said he was mis-sold the policy as the policy terms 
must have changed and he wasnt aware of the terms. He said that the repair of his phone 
resulted in his phone developing a glitch which meant that the brightness dimmed, and the 
phone had poor visibility. So, he wanted the phone to be properly repaired or he wanted to 
be given the difference in value of a properly repaired phone and his current faulty phone 
which was around £300. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr W, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr W has raised an additional complaint of his policy being mis-sold to him. I 
understand that he has raised this as a separate complaint which is currently with our 
service. It should be noted that this complaint is limited to whether AIG had complied with 
the policy terms and conditions in the repair of Mr Ws phone. 
I have been provided with the policy terms and conditions, as well as Mr W testimony of 
what happened. I have considered all the information presented.
Mr W said that following his screen being damaged he contacted AIG to make a claim. It 
sent a technician who told him that genuine parts would be used in the repair of this phone. 
When the phone was returned to Mr W, an error message flagged up that said that the part 
wasnt genuine. And Mr W raised a complaint.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions to see the responsibilities of AIG, under the policy. 
The policy says on page 10 of a 24 page document: Repairs will be made in accordance 
with the following: (i) using readily available parts, (ii) with refurbished products which may 
contain parts which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include non-
original, third party, or unbranded parts, and/or (iii) may be performed by non-authorised 
OEM repair providers will provide a twenty-four (24) month warranty on the completed 
repair performed on the device.
Having reviewed this term, I am satisfied that AIGs responsibilities were to repair the phone 
with either readily available parts, refurbished products or parts that were similar or 
equivalent and which might not be original. I think the term is clear and not misleading and 
explains fully what parts are likely to be used in a repair. 
AIG confirmed that it complied with the policy terms and conditions. And having reviewed 
this, I think that it did. Mr W said that the phone was returned after the repair and he noticed 
an error message on the phone saying that the part wasnt genuine. But, given the policy 
term, Im satisfied that AIG carried out the repair of the phone, in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions. And I although I understand that Mr W didnt want non-genuine parts 
on his phone, I cant agree that AIG shouldnt have used using non-genuine parts.
AIG also said that attached to the repair was a 24 months warranty.  I understand from Mr W 
that he said he was experiencing issues with the brightness of the phone. As the phone had 
a repair warranty, Mr W was at liberty to request that AIG repair his phone under the 
warranty. 
I have next looked at the level of customer service that Mr W experienced. Mr W explained 
that he was told incorrect information from the technician that AIG sent. In that, he was told 
that genuine parts would be used in the repair of his phone. AIG have not been able to verify 
this but has acknowledged this error. And in the acknowledgement of the poor service, it 
offered compensation of £10 for the upset this caused. 
Mr W said that he would either like the difference in value of a properly repaired phone and 
his current faulty phone which was around £300. But, as Ive found that AIG complied with 
the policy terms and conditions, I dont think its reasonable for AIG to increase the level of 
compensation that it offered.  AIG accepted that there was a poor level of service that Mr W 
received and having reviewed this offer, I think that it is fair and reasonable, as it recognises 
the error that occurred. Moreover, AIG apologised for the error. So, in the circumstances, I 
think AIG has adequately compensated Mr W for the upset he suffered. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that AIG complied with the policy terms and 
conditions. I also think it was fair and reasonable in its offer of £10 for the poor customer 
service Mr W experienced.  Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr W wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
AIG to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
American International Group UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £10 for the upset 
caused, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that American International Group UK Limited should pay £10 (If it hasnt 
already done so).
American International Group UK Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman