DRN-1283148
The complaint
Miss T complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to help her when she was in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
In August 2018 Miss T asked Barclays for help because she was in financial difficulty. 
Barclays refunded some charges and put a freeze on any further fees and charges for 
30 days. It refunded some further charges and extended the freeze on fees on two other 
occasions later the same year. In January 2019 Miss T said shed been in financial hardship 
for a number of years and she asked Barclays to refund all of the charges and fees on her 
account. Barclays refused to do so and Miss T complained.
In response to her complaint, Barclays said Miss T told it about her financial situation in 
August 2018. It had then refunded some of the charges on her account as a gesture of 
goodwill and stopped any further charges being added to her account. It said it 
couldn't refund charges prior to when Miss T told it about her difficulties. Miss T wasnt 
happy with Barclays response as she thought it should have done more to help her.  
Our investigator said Barclays had only consented to this service looking at charges applied 
to Miss Ts account within the last six years. He said we couldnt therefore look at charges 
made before then. He didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He was satisfied Barclays had done 
what it was expected to do. It had offered help when she missed payments or had charges 
applied before 2018 and it had adjusted the charges when it became aware she was in 
financial difficulty. He didnt think there was any way of Barclays identifying she was in 
financial difficulty before August 2018 because Miss T had generally operated her account 
within its limits.  
Miss T doesnt agree. She accepts the charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account but she doesnt recall being notified of them. While shes grateful 
for the help Barclays provided after August 2018, she feels the bank should have taken 
action long before then. As Miss T remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to 
Miss T but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for 
largely the same reasons.
Our investigator explained why this service cant look at the charges and fees that were 
applied to Miss Ts account more than six years before she complained to Barclays. Miss T 
said she understood that Barclays would only look back six years and Ill therefore focus my 
decision on events within that period.Theres no doubt that Miss T was experiencing financial difficulties throughout this period. 
Shes explained the problems she was facing and Im sorry to hear she was having 
difficulties for such a long time. 
When a business knows a consumer has financial difficulties, it must act positively and 
sympathetically. It doesnt have to take specific action but there are several things it can do, 
like suspending, reducing and/or writing off charges. Once Miss T told Barclays about her 
financial difficulties in August 2018, it did just that. It refunded some of the charges on her 
account and suspended any further charges being applied to the account for an extended 
period of time. I think that was a reasonable response to the situation Miss T was in at that 
time.
Miss T has said shes grateful to Barclays for the help and support it provided after 
August 2018. She said Barclays accepted that her expenditure exceeded her income and 
the action it took alleviated her situation. But she believes Barclays should have known she 
was in financial difficulty before that time. Ive therefore considered whether or not Barclays 
should reasonably have been aware of her financial difficulties before August 2018. 
Businesses might be alerted to consumers who may be in financial difficulty in a number of 
ways. For example, the consumer may have missed consecutive payments or failed to pay 
essential bills. In this case, Miss T was making regular payments and didnt miss very many. 
When she did miss a payment, Barclays notified her of the charges shed incurred and gave 
her details of how it could help if she needed support. It did the same thing when sending 
her annual statements of charges and fees.
Barclays feel there was therefore no need to do any more than it was already doing. Miss T 
says she was overdrawn on her account on many occasions throughout this period and 
often had to rely on her family to help her make the payments that were due. But that doesnt 
necessarily indicate she was in financial difficulty. Barclays has said many of its customers 
will regularly use their overdraft facility to manage their finances and I think thats a fair point 
as it may simply be a customers choice to use the overdraft. And Barclays wouldnt have 
known Miss T was relying on her family to make the payments unless or until she told them. 
Having carefully considered the information available to me, I dont think Barclays has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in failing to identify that Miss T was in any financial difficulty until 
she notified it in August 2018. 
Miss T also says she wasnt sure if Barclays notified her of the charges and fees it would 
apply to her account. But the information Ive seen shows that she was notified of those 
charges on regular occasions throughout the period before August 2018. So I dont think 
those charges were applied unfairly.
I realise this isnt the news Miss T wanted but Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done anything 
wrong and I wont therefore be asking it to do anything further.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman