DRN-1467286
The complaint
Mr C complained because he is unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) handled his mobile phone insurance claim
What happened
Mr C raised a claim with Assurant on 18 June 2019 after losing his device whilst on holiday. 
The claim was passed to the Higher Assessment team and on 26 June 2019, the following 
additional information was requested:
Proof of travel to evidence the journey to and from Egypt;
Mr Cs partners itemised bill to evidence that he tried to call the lost device after it 
went missing; and
Screenshots of the associated account to evidence the devices activity (full 
instructions of how to do this was provided).
Mr C raised concerns on the same day about providing his partners itemised bill due to the 
nature of her employment and was informed that the claim couldnt proceed without it. 
Although he sent some of the information requested on 27 and 28 June 2019, Assurant 
advised him on 3 July 2019 that it still required proof of his outbound travel, the itemised bill 
and a screenshot of the associated account. 
Assurant received additional information on 11 July 2019 but not the screenshot of 
associated account. Mr C was told that the claim would be closed if the screenshot wasnt 
provided. Mr C told Assurant that he was unable to provide the screenshot because the lost 
device was no longer showing on the associated account.  As this was not received, the 
claim was closed pending receipt of the screenshot. Mr C said he rang Assurant on a 
number of occasions for updates and was promised calls back which he didnt receive, so he 
made a formal complaint.
Assurant investigated Mr Cs complaint but felt that it dealt with the claim correctly. It did 
partially uphold the complaint (although no redress was provided) because it couldnt confirm 
whether they managed Mr Cs expectations correctly in terms of the timescales for returning 
calls. But Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. To 
summarise, he thought that Assurant was fair to close the claim until all information was 
received. He also felt that the delay with the claim was due to insufficient information being 
provided by Mr C. 
Mr C and his representative didnt agree with the investigators opinion so the case was 
passed to me to consider
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Claim handling
Mr C is covered for loss, theft, damage and breakdown including faults occurring anywhere 
in the world. His policy covers him for a replacement if his mobile device is lost or stolen 
subject to certain actions being taken.
Page 4 of the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy under How to make a claim states:
When you contact us, we will walk you through the simple claims process and tell you what information you will need to 
provide for us to assess your claim. You may be asked to complete a claim form or provide additional information in order to 
progress your claim. Failure to do so may result in your claim being delayed.
In an email to Mr C dated 8 July 2019, Assurant explained that the screenshot he sent didnt 
show the correct information it needed. This is because it didnt show the details of the lost 
device. 
Ive also listened to call recordings of conversations between Mr C and Assurant where it 
was made clear that the claim couldnt progress unless all the information requested was 
provided. I know that Mr C informed Assurant that he was unable to obtain this information 
because the device was no longer showing on his account. But, he was given the telephone 
number of associated account to seek help so Im satisfied that Assurant did all it could to 
try and help Mr C acquire all the evidence it required.
I appreciate Mr C feels his partners privacy was compromised by Assurant requesting the 
screenshot of her itemised bill, but I dont agree. I say this because the itemised bill was 
redacted. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Assurant to ask for a screenshot of the 
associated account either. Assurant needed to see this to assess the devices activity. 
Assurant is entitled to request additional information to assess the claim under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, with that in mind, while I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling, I 
cant say that Assurant acted unfairly by putting the claim on hold pending Mr C providing 
the screenshot as it required this evidence in order to assess the claim.
Delays 
Ive considered whether there were delays in handling Mr Cs claim. Having looked through 
the claim notes and timeline of events, I cant see any delays in the handling of the claim.
Mr C was informed that the claim couldnt progress unless all information Assurant had 
requested had been received. And Assurant also assisted Mr C where it could in trying to 
help him get the relevant evidence it required.
Assurant closed the claim on 26 July 2019 as a result of not receiving the screenshot. 
Although Assurant couldve been more proactive in letting Mr C know immediately his claim 
was closed, Im satisfied that it was made clear that the claim couldnt progress without all 
information being received.
Assurant partially upheld Mr Cs complaint because it couldnt confirm whether they 
managed Mr Cs expectations correctly in terms of the timescales for returning calls as some 
of the calls didnt record. I appreciate why Mr C was annoyed but ultimately, I cant see that 
this caused any detriment to the claim, as he was aware he hadnt provided all the relevant 
information requires, and he was aware the claim couldnt progress without it.Premium
Lastly, Mr C raised concerns about another premium being taken from his account. He was 
under the impression that since there was no longer an insurable device on the policy, no 
further premiums would be taken. Its important to note that Mr Cs claim wasnt declined. It 
was closed pending receipt of information, so the policy was effectively still in use at that 
point. So Assurant did nothing wrong by taking the premium. Because of this, I wont be 
asking Assurant to refund the premium.
   
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Assurant has acted fairly and I dont require 
it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman