DRN-2267942
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response from Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd when he 
asked for a refund of his car insurance premium. 
What happened
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through Acorn at the end of March 2020. Around the 
same time the country was put into lockdown because of Covid-19. In May 2020 Mr S 
contacted Acorn to ask to have business use added to his policy. 
Acorn responded to Mr S to say he could have business use added but there would be an 
additional premium. Mr S wasnt happy with this as he hadnt been using his car because the 
country was in lockdown, so he complained to Acorn and asked for a refund. In their final 
response letter Acorn said as Mr S had asked for a refund of premiums, it would be down to 
his insurer to decide. Acorn also said it had forwarded the complaint and request for a refund 
onto the insurer, on Mr Ss behalf. Mr S didnt agree with Acorns response and brought his 
complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that Acorn could have asked Mr Ss insurer for him, but as his insurer had responded 
to him to say it wouldnt provide a retrospective refund, she didnt think Mr S had been 
disadvantaged. Mr S didnt agree, he said he should have some money back for not using 
his car and was being passed backwards and forwards between Acorn and his insurer. He 
also didnt think Acorn had addressed his complaint or confirmed with him what he was 
complaining about after he said they hadnt addressed it.  
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im only considering the actions of Acorn. Ive addressed Mr Ss concerns 
about his insurer in a separate decision. 
I can see Mr S contacted Acorn in May 2020 to query about having business use added to 
his policy. As there would be an additional premium, Acorn said Mr S complained because 
he was unhappy that he wasnt getting a refund because he hadnt used his car. This is the 
same complaint that was brought to us. Ive therefore looked at whether Acorns actions 
were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When Acorn received Mr Ss request for a refund, I can see they referred it to his insurer the 
next day. His insurer then responded to him the day after that to say it wouldnt provide a 
retrospective refund of premiums. I agree Acorn could have checked this for Mr S rather 
than forwarding his request on. However, as his insurer responded to him two days after he 
raised it with Acorn, I dont think hes been disadvantaged. I say this because Acorn 
forwarded his request onto his insurer and they responded directly in a reasonable time.
I can also see Mr S doesnt think Acorn addressed his complaint. I can understand this 
would be frustrating but as complaint handling isnt an activity we can consider, I wont be 
commenting on it further here. In addressing Mr Ss complaint in my decision Ive focused on 
what I determine to be the heart of the matter. And as Mr S has said he should get a refund 
for not using his car, thats the complaint Ive considered. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman