DRN-3142496
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs N have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home contents policy.
I will normally only refer to Mr H, as he mainly dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mr H contacted UKI to report the accidental loss of a watch insured as a specified item on 
his insurance policy. When UKI considered the claim, it declined it on the basis that it hadnt 
received sufficient evidence to support ownership of the watch.
When Mr H complained to UKI, it remained of the view that it had correctly declined the 
claim. So, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that based on the evidence provided to support ownership that it was reasonable for 
UKI to decline the claim.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
UKI asked Mr H for evidence of ownership of the watch. Mr H provided a valuation of the 
watch which he said he obtained as part of making the purchase. During UKIs investigation, 
Mr H explained that he contacted the person who was selling the watch. He met the person 
in a car park and took the watch to be valued at a jeweller before agreeing to buy it. Mr H 
said he then agreed to buy the watch and paid for it in cash.
UKI said it didnt find the jewellers valuation document to be sufficient proof that Mr H owned 
the watch. Having thought about this, I think that was reasonable. The document showed 
that a watch was valued and Mr H has said that this was before he had bought it. The 
document didnt show that Mr H went on to buy the watch.
So, UKI asked for further evidence that Mr H owned the watch. Mr H paid for the watch in 
cash, which he said he kept in a safe at his home. Mr H was unable to show any bank 
transactions to provide evidence of the money. He was also unable to provide a receipt for 
the watch, which Mr H said was because the purchase had been agreed by a handshake. 
UKI also asked for photos showing Mr H wearing the watch. Mr H said he didnt have any 
photos, which was because the watch was an investment rather than to be shown off. I 
havent seen anything to show that UKI was provided with evidence that Mr H owned the 
watch.
Im aware that Mr H has said the policy documents didnt explain that he would need to 
provide evidence of ownership and that had he been aware of this, he would have provided 
proof. Ive read the policy documents and these said:
In the event of an occurrence or possible occurrence which is likely to involve this policy  
you or the family member must perform the following duties for cover to apply:

prepare an inventory of damaged, lost or stolen personal property. The inventory should 
describe the property in full as well as showing the amount insured under your policy, if 
applicable, and the actual amount of the loss. You should attach bills, receipts and other 
documents to support your inventory;

provide us with any property, records, legal documents, information or evidence we request 
at your own expense
An insurer is entitled to investigate a claim and to request evidence to support it. Having 
read the policy documents, I think these explained the type of evidence UKI might require as 
part of a claim, which included evidence of the property.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on 
the basis that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that Mr H owned the watch. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman