DRN-3588292
The complaint
Miss E complains Funding Circle Ltd failed to complete sufficient due diligence before 
allowing her to invest in crowdfunding opportunities on its peer-to-peer platform.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer-to-peer lending platform. It is 
an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Miss E based on a 
set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile  meaning 
she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E rated loans).
In May 2021, Miss E contacted Funding Circle raising inquiries across a number of loans 
that were allocated to her account. Specifically, she raised general concerns relating to 
whether Funding Circle requested management accounts from the borrowers before 
accepting the loans on the platform. Miss E was unhappy Funding Circle didnt respond to 
her information requests. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- It would no longer be providing ad hoc information requests. 
- It requests various amounts of information prior to accepting a borrower for a loan.
- Management accounts are included in its due diligence checks, as well other 
financial data including information submitted by the borrower, information from 
several credit bureaus, personal guarantees, credit profiles of the company directors 
and previous history with the borrower to ensure that it didnt misrepresent the loan. 
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. She said Funding Circle failed in the way it carried out due diligence on 
these loans meaning it couldnt accurately assess risk by using accounts that were over six 
months old. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it - in summary he said:
- He had considered the general point Miss E raises about the gathering of 
management accounts  and not looked at specific loans. 
- He found that Funding Circle said it would use the most up to date filed accounts 
from borrowers as part of its due diligence  and it may request management 
accounts
- He noted Funding Circle didnt just use filed accounts to carry out due diligence. It 
also obtains the borrowers credit file and other financial data to ensure it has an up to 
date picture of the borrower. 
- Overall, he found that Funding Circle had acting reasonably in the way it set out what 
accounts it obtains before accepting loans on the platform. 
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said her complaint is that 
Funding Circle misled investors into thinking that it used management accounts when doing 
its due diligence, when it didnt. She highlighted extracts from Funding Circles website about 
how it risk rates loans and said this includes obtaining management accounts.  
As Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Es complaint is about the due diligence Funding Circle undertook before 
allocating a number of loans to her crowdfunding account. Essentially, she believes failings 
in the due diligence have contributed to losses she faces on the loans that have defaulted. 
Her complaint has been presented in general terms as oppose to issues regarding the 
specific due diligence on individual loans - therefore, my findings are presented in the same 
way. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding 
Circle. Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
And Ive borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms  including the references to the due diligence 
expectations placed on platforms. 
As explained above, Miss Es account receives loan parts through an automated loan 
allocation process. This means she didnt select any of the loans after reviewing a promotion 
 so Im not considering whether she was provided with misleading information about the 
loans before deciding whether to invest. But rather whether Funding Circle acted in her best 
interests by allowing loans to be available for allocation to her based on the selected 
investment criteria for her account. 
Miss E concerns are about the way in which Funding Circle uses financial accounts when 
completing due diligence before accepting loans on to its platform. Her expectation was that 
for all loan applications Funding Circle would obtain management accounts when the latest 
filed accounts were more than six months old. She believes obtaining more up to date accounts would have either changed the risk level of the loans or led to them not being 
accepted. Shes also made reference to information on Funding Circles website, which she 
says gives investors reason to believe that that old accounts would be supplemented by 
more up to date management accounts.  
Funding Circle has explained when completing its due diligence, it requests a full copy of the 
latest accounts that have been filed at Companies House from borrowers. It says it can 
verify these filed accounts because directors have a legal responsibility to ensure the 
accounts are accurate  whereas it cant verify management accounts. But it also says it 
obtains further credit related information which is used to ensure it has up to date financial 
information to allow it to ascertain the borrowers current levels of affordability before it 
accepts a loan. In its submission to this service, Funding Circle said it has developed its risk 
models over time to decide when it is appropriate to request management accounts  
although historically (i.e. when Miss E was allocated many of her loans) it requested them 
when the filed accounts were more than 16 months old. 
I think Funding Circles explanation on why its usual approach is to request the most recent 
filed accounts is reasonable. But Im conscious this isnt the only piece of due diligence 
Funding Circle completed on borrowers before accepting loan applications. In considering 
whether Funding Circle met its obligations to investors, I dont think putting the main focus 
on whether management accounts were requested satisfactorily answers this broader 
question. The approach Funding Circle have described in obtaining further up to date credit 
and financial statements on the borrower before accepting a loan indicates it makes 
individual decisions on each loan across a number of factors. When considering the overall 
approach to due diligence, this provides a better insight to how investors interest were 
protected. I havent been asked in this complaint to consider specific factors about individual 
loans, so am only commenting on Funding Circles general approach to due diligence. 
Based on the information put forward, I havent found an overarching failing. 
I have considered the points Miss Es makes about the information from Funding Circles 
website about obtaining management accounts. She says Funding Circle hasnt done what it 
said it would.  Some of the information she has referred to isnt produced for investors but is 
aimed to provide information to potential borrowers on the platform. So, it doesnt directly 
relate to expectations it gave to investors. In any case, I note the statement only says 
management accounts may be requested  as oppose to they will always be obtained. 
Miss E has also referred to a FAQs section on Funding Circles website that describes how 
risk bands are set for loans. This explains over 1,500 factors are taken into consideration 
and lists a small sample of the types of considerations. I acknowledge that latest 
management accounts is on the list. But Im not persuaded this means in situations where 
Funding Circle hasnt requested management accounts it must have failed to complete 
sufficient due diligence or incorrectly risk rated loans before accepting them on the platform. 
Put simply, I dont think Funding Circle had an obligation to request management accounts 
in the way Miss E describes or it has misled investors in to understating it would request 
them in all or specific scenarios. So, it follows if management accounts werent requested on 
loans added to her account, I dont think this automatically means Funding Circle failed in its 
responsibilities to Miss E.  
Having considered the points Miss E makes, I dont think the references to the possibility of 
requesting management accounts means Funding Circle has failed to act in her best interest 
by not requesting them as part of its due diligence for the loans that she was allocated. It 
follows that that I dont find the general point Miss E makes about Funding Circles due 
diligence around obtaining accounts should be upheld. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman