DRN-2434192
The complaint
Mrs B has complained to us that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy which she took out by phone in July 1998. The PPI was used alongside a store 
account shed opened in March 1998. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as 
I understand it, it wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs B was 
off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld because they thought the 
policy wouldnt have been of good value for money in Mrs Bs circumstances given that 
she appeared to have good benefits and adequate savings.
In my provisional decision dated 29 October 2020 I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint, subject to Mrs B being able to provide me some further 
information about her employer benefits and savings. I set out an extract below:
The PPI was added in July 1998 by way of a phone marketing call. We no longer have 
access to the call, but from our experience, we think its more likely that consumers like 
Mrs B were asked to consent to the PPI before it was added to her account. From what I 
know about these sales, I dont think AXA advised Mrs B to take the policy out. This 
means they didnt have to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs B. So, for 
example, AXA didnt have to ask about or consider Mrs Bs existing provisions or assess 
if the PPI was affordable for Mrs B.
But AXA did have to give Mrs B clear information so that she could make an informed 
choice about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs B all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs and benefits of the policy or the main 
exclusions and restrictions. The adjudicator concluded that better information about the 
costs and benefits of the policy would have put Mrs B off taking the policy out. This is 
because they thought Mrs B had sufficient existing work benefits and savings available at 
the time of the sale. Mrs B told us she would have received at least 6 months full pay from 
her employer if she couldnt work, and possibly as much as 12. She also told us she had 
at least 6 months worth of savings. 
Ive seen AXAs comments about there being no evidence or further information to support 
this level of employer benefits or to show that Mrs B had enough savings to cover her 
account payments for at least six months if necessary. I think this is something that Id 
expect Mr B to be able to provide some more detail about. 
As things stand Im just not able to conclude that its more likely that Mrs B had such a 
good level of employment benefits and savings that she didnt need the PPI. Without 
further help on these points from Mrs B, I cant currently say that the policy wouldnt have 
provided good value for her. I say this especially as the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Bs existing means. And based on my current understanding of Mrs Bs 
sick pay, it might well have fallen short of providing a comparable level of benefits to the 
PPI cover shed taken out, which would have covered her for up to 12 months. Ive also 
kept in mind that the policy would also have paid out if she lost her job. 
So I hope that Mrs B is now able to sufficiently clarify her circumstances at the time of the 
sale for her employer benefits as well as her savings. I can then take another look at this 
aspect of the complaint. 
Ive also considered whether better information about the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy wouldve put Mrs B off taking PPI out. And I dont think it would have. This is 
because Mrs B didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the 
policy such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs B could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs B at 
the time of the sale. And Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if she no longer wanted it.
It follows that based on what Ive seen so far, I dont currently think Mrs B was mis-sold this 
PPI policy.
AXA confirmed it had received my decision and told us it had nothing further to add. Mrs B 
didnt respond by the date we gave her to provide us with any new evidence or information  
and hasnt responded since.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
AXA has said it has nothing further to add and Mrs B hasnt come back to us with anything 
more. So, given that Ive not received any further evidence or information, I wont be 
departing from the finding I made in my provisional decision. It follows that, whilst I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, I wont be upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. So theres nothing more that AXA France IARD (AXA) 
needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman