DRN-4083339
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund a number 
of transactions on his account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In September and October 2021, two payments were made out of Mr Is Barclaycard 
account to an online learning company  but Mr I says he didnt make the payments. Mr I 
says he noticed the payments when he received his monthly statement, and so reported 
them to Barclaycard as fraud and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Barclaycard investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments. It said the payments were 
made using Mr Is card details but Mr I still had the card in his possession. And it said the 
information it received from the online learning company suggested Mr I had signed up for a 
course with them. Mr I wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response, so referred a complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they couldnt see how anyone 
else couldve obtained Mr Is card details, so they thought it was likely Mr I had consented to 
the payments. And so they didnt think Barclaycard should have to refund them. Mr I 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made.
Barclaycard has sent us evidence which shows that both payments were made using Mr Is 
card details. This means the payments were correctly authenticated, and so I must also think 
about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr I consented to the 
withdrawals.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr I says he didnt make the payments and has never had any contact with the online 
learning company. He also told Barclaycard he hadnt given his card to anyone else to use. 
And statements for his account show genuine payments were made with his card shortly 
after the disputed payments, which means he had the card in his possession afterwards. 
But, if that is the case, someone else would have needed to take his card, use it to make the 
payments and then return the card to him  all without him noticing. And I think this is 
unlikely.
The information Barclaycard received from the online learning company also shows the 
course that was purchased with Mr Is card details was signed up for in his name, and using 
his correct address and an email address hes said belongs to him. And I think its unlikely 
someone other than Mr I would sign up for an online learning course using his name and 
contact details.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of thing Id typically expect an opportunistic 
thief to do after gaining access to someones account. Generally, the way fraudsters operate 
is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money 
being cut-off or them being detected. But here, only two payments are made, Mr Is full 
available balance in his account isnt used up and no other payments are attempted before 
Mr I reports the fraud to Barclaycard. So I dont think its likely these payments were done by 
an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mr I feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. I 
dont think the evidence suggests the payments were made by an unknown third-party. And, 
based on the evidence I have and in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think its 
likely he consented to the payments  either by making them himself or by allowing 
someone else to make them.
Mr I has mentioned that a court case the online learning company brought against him for 
not making further payments for the course was dismissed. But I dont think the company not 
evidencing that he needed to make further payments necessarily means he didnt authorise 
the payments that were made. So this doesnt change my decision about the complaint.
And so I dont think Barclaycard has acted unreasonably in holding Mr I responsible for the 
payments made out of his account, or that it needs to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman