DRN-3372179
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was given unsuitable advice by a Registered Individual (Ill refer to 
him as Mr S) of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to switch his existing pensions 
to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and make investments in unlisted companies.
Mr R says Mr S told him the investments were low risk and would give a very good return. 
Mr R says the investments have now failed. He believes he should never have been advised 
to switch from his existing pensions and invest in shares of the unlisted companies, as they 
were high risk investments and he had no investment experience, and no savings or 
investments other than his pensions.
What happened
Mr R brought his complaint to us together with his wife (Mrs R) who also says that Mr S 
advised her to open a SIPP and invest in an unlisted company. For reasons Ill explain later 
in this decision, the complaints have been separated. This decision deals only with Mr Rs 
complaint.
This complaint relates to events in 2008 and early 2009. Mr R says he was referred to Mr 
S by a family member. At this time Mr S was a registered individual of Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited which was called Positive Solutions at the time. For ease, I 
will refer to Positive Solutions in this decision rather than Quilter. Mr S was listed on the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Register as holding the CF30 controlled function at 
Positive Solutions.
Mr S presented a business card to Mr R and his wife (which Mr R has provided us with a 
copy of) which showed he was a Positive Solutions adviser.
Mr R says he was advised to transfer his existing personal pensions into a SIPP and then 
to make investments in the following:
Daval International Limited
Lightstep Limited
LX Mobile Systems
Milestone Group
Sovereign Trade PLC
The SIPP was opened in January 2009. The SIPP application is dated 18 December 
2008. Mr Ss details were recorded in the Financial Advisor section of the application 
form, including Positive Solutions FSA number and Mr Ss Positive Solutions email 
address.
The SIPP was opened with funds totalling around £76,000. The investments in 
the companies appear to have been made a short time later.
At the time of the events subject to complaint the business model followed by Positive 
Solutions was that it was an independent financial adviser firm authorised by the FSA, 
which gave advice through registered individuals. The registered individuals were self-
employed agents of Positive Solutions, not employees. Nor were the registered 
individuals appointed representatives under s.39 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA).
Mr R submitted his complaint to Positive Solutions on 4 July 2017 and filled out a 
complaint questionnaire shortly afterwards. Positive Solutions responded on 25 August 
2017. It said that Mr R had failed to submit his complaint within six years of the advice or 
within three years of when he ought reasonably to have realised he had cause to 
complain. As such, Positive Solutions said it would not investigate matters further in its 
final response letter to Mr R.
Unhappy with Positive Solutions response, Mr R referred his complaint to this Service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and concluded that we couldnt deal with the 
complaint for another reason. He noted that Positive Solutions had issued its response to 
Mr R on 25 August 2017 and that the complaint wasnt referred to this Service until 30 
May 2018  well over six months later. This, he said, is outside of the timescales allowed 
under our rules.
Mr R then asked me to reconsider this issue.
I initially issued a decision to Positive Solutions (but not Mr R) explaining why I agreed 
with the investigator that the complaint had been made outside of the six month time 
limit. But I explained to Positive Solutions later that day that I had overlooked an 
important matter relating to the content of the final response letter and did not feel that 
the letter dated 25 August 2017 met the requirements under our rules to start the six 
month time limit. I informed the parties that I would revisit matters.
I then issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022. I said that:
The complaints brought by Mrs R and Mr R should be treated as seperate 
complaints.
The final response letter issued by Positive Solutions didnt meet the 
requirements under our rules and therefore Mr Rs complaint was not made 
more than six months after a valid final response letter.
Mr R had also made the complaint within the three years of when he ought 
reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint. 
So, our time limits for considering the complaint had been met.
Mr S had likely acted without actual authority under the registered individual 
agreement he had with Positive Solutions in advising Mr R about the pension 
switch and investments.
However, I was satisfied that Positive Solutions had accepted responsibility 
for the acts being complained about by way of the common law principle of 
apparent authority.
So the complaint was one that we could consider against Positive Solutions.
The advice given to Ms R about the pension switch and investments was 
unsuitable. So Positive Solutions should pay Mr R coompensation for his 
losses.
Mr R had nothing further to add. But Positive Solutions didnt agree with my decision. It 
said:
There was no basis to seperate the complaints made by Mrs R and Mr R. 
The complaint had been brought by them to Positive Solutions as a joint 
complaint.I had relied on a technicality to say that the final response letter did not meet 
the rules and this was unfair.
The complaint was still made too late as Mr R complained more than three 
years after he ought reasonably to have realised he had cause to complain. 
But no further arguments were raised about this.
The complaint related to an investment in shares. Positive Solutions had no 
regulatory permissions to advise on shares and so Mr S had clearly acted 
without Positive Solutions authority in this case.
My findings on jurisdiction
As a preliminary matter, although the complaints were set out in joint letters to Positive 
Solutions and to our service, I remain of the view that Mr Rs complaint is a seperate 
complaint to that of his wife Mrs R. My reasons are as follows:
Mr Rs complaint relates to his own pension and investments. Mrs Rs 
complaint relates to her own pension and a further direct investment. So the 
complaints relate to different funds.
The switch of Mr Rs pension took place after his SIPP application in 
December 2008. Mrs Rs pension switch took place after her SIPP application 
October 2009. So the events took place at different times.
When they brought their complaints to us, Mrs R and Mr R made clear that 
they were bringing separate complaints.
I have looked at all the evidence and submissions to decide whether this is a complaint 
we have jurisdiction to consider. I must decide this on the basis of our jurisdiction rules 
(referred to as the DISP rules), including the relevant law they are based on or 
incorporate, and the relevant facts of the complaint which I must decide on the balance of 
probability when in dispute.
I cant decide jurisdiction issues on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of a complaint is 
determined if we have jurisdiction to consider it.
DISP 2.8 says:
The ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) More than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complaint its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication, or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint: unless the complainant referred the complaint to the 
respondent or to the ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received.
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limits in DISP2.8.2 R ...was as a result of exceptional circumstances:Positive Solutions has said that the complaint should be time barred under both limbs of 
the rule. Ill deal with each limb in turn.
Was the complaint made too late under the first limb (the 6 month rule)?
I dont agree that the complaint was made more than 6 months after a final response 
letter. Thats because the letter issued to Mr R on 25 August 2017 did not meet the 
requirements under DISP.
DISP 1.6.2R defines a final response as follows:
(1) a 'final response', being a written response from the respondent which:
(a) accepts the complaint and, where appropriate, offers redress or remedial 
action: or
(b) offers redress or remedial action without accepting the complaint: or
(c) rejects the complaint and gives reasons for 
doing so: and which:
(d) encloses a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service's standard 
explanatory leaflet:
(da) provides the website address of the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(e) informs the complainant that if he remains dissatisfied with the respondent's 
response, he may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service: and
(f) indicates whether or not the respondent consents to waive the relevant time 
limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP2.8.7 R (Was the complaint referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in time?) by including the appropriate wording 
set out in DISP 1 Annex 3R....
Positive Solutions did not provide the website address of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service when it issued the letter dated 25 August 2017. Positive Solutions says that this 
is a technicality. But it is a specific requirement in the rules, separate from the 
requirement to provide our leaflet. As such, the final response to Mr R did not start the six 
month time limit under limb (1) above. Therefore, my decision is that Mr R did not refer 
his complaint to us too late under that provision.
Was the complaint made too late under the second limb (the six and three year rule)?
As explained above, Mr R needs to have made his complaint within:
Six years of the matter complained about; or (if later)
Three years of when he became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware, that he had cause for complaint.
As set out above, it seems the advice was given in 2008. And the complaint wasnt 
referred to Positive Solutions until 4 July 2017. This means the complaint is outside the 
first part of the time limit  i.e. it was made more than six years after the events 
complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside 
the second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after 
Mr R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he had cause to complain. Because 
the complaint was made on 4 July 2017, the question becomes whether he knew, or 
ought to have known, he had cause to complain before 4 July 2014.
Positive Solutions says that Mr Rs complaint is that the high risk investments were unsuitable as he liked safer investments. These were the words Mr R had used in 
his complaint. So it says:
If you [Mr R] did not appreciate the risks of the recommended investment at the 
point of sale, then it is fair to assume that you should have been aware that 
there was cause for concern on receipt of the annual statements sent directly to 
you from the provider from at least 2013 onwards. In other words, you would 
have been clearly aware of the value of your investments and the effect this had 
on the overall value of your pension funds (even if you had not been aware of 
this at any other point from inception).
We consider that any significant decrease in value should have alerted any 
reasonable investor that liked safer investments" that there was a problem. 
Therefore, at this time (more than 3 years ago), you should have realised you 
had cause to complain.
At the point it made this argument, it doesnt appear that Positive Solutions had seen any 
of the SIPP statements. But our service has requested and received statements from the 
SIPP operator and other correspondence sent to Mr R. This shows:
Mr Rs SIPP was opened in January 2009 after around £76,000 was transferred 
from his previous schemes.
In January 2009, applications were signed by Mr R for three of the 
investments (Daval, LX Mobile, Sovereign). These applications were 
submitted to the SIPP operator by Mr S.
We dont have specific details of when the applications for the investments in 
Lightstep and Milestone were submitted to the SIPP operator. But there is an 
application form signed by Mr S for the Lightstep investment dated February 
2009 on the SIPP operators files. So this is probably when it was submitted. 
And I think it likely that the application for the Milestone investment was 
submitted around this time too.
The SIPP was valued at £71,866 in December 2010. We dont have a 
breakdown of individual investments in the SIPP from that time.
Mr Rs SIPP statement from June 2011 showed it was valued at £66,120 
with the following breakdown of investments held in the SIPP.
Investment Cost Valuation Gain/Loss
Daval International Limited £10,350 £10,350 £0
Lightstep Ltd £25,000 £25,000 £0
LX Mobile Systems £7,000.05 £7,000.05 £0
Milestone Group PLC £9,999.99 £3,888.89 -£6111.10
Sovereign Trade PLC £12,500 £12,500 £0
Sovereign Trade PLC Preference £7,500 £7,500 0
Total Portfolio Value (after small 
cash adjustments)£72,231.12 £66,120.02 -£6111.10
The SIPP was valued at £67,990 in December 2012. We dont have a 
breakdown of individual investments in the SIPP from that time.The SIPP was valued at £58,573 in June 2013 with a breakdown of the 
valuation of investments as follows:
Investment Acquisition 
costValuation
Daval International Limited £10,350 £10,350
Lightstep Ltd £25,000 £25,000
LX Mobile Systems £7,000.05
Milestone Group PLC £9,999.99 £3,194.44
Sovereign Trade PLC £12,500 £12,500
Sovereign Trade PLC 
Preference£7,500 £7,500
Total Portfolio Value (after 
small cash adjustments)£72,350.04 £58,573.92
The SIPP was valued at £55,954.68 in November 2014. We dont have a 
breakdown of individual investments in the SIPP from that time.
Looking at the statements and information available to me, Im not convinced that Mr R 
ought reasonably to have realised he had had cause for complaint earlier than July 
2014.
Mr R says he received assurances from Mr S that his investments will be okay and they 
will come back, its early days. There is no documentary evidence of these discussions, 
but Im satisfied from all the circumstances in this case that Mr R was a very 
inexperienced investor and reliant on his adviser.
Mr Rs complaint is that he was told that the investments were low risk and would 
provide good returns. And so I can see that he might reasonably have been concerned 
that his pension value had been decreasing after the switch and that by June 2013 one 
investment had failed.
But, Mr Rs complaint is not that he thought his capital was guaranteed and would lose 
no money at all. Mr R said in his complaint to Positive Solutions that his attitude to risk 
for pensions was low/medium. I think such investors typically accept the possibility 
that the total value of their investments may go up as well as down  especially for long 
term investments such as a pension.
The loss that Mr R ought reasonably to have been aware of by July 2014 was of around 
20% of his fund value. I dont think this level of loss is sufficient for me to conclude that Mr 
R ought reasonably have been aware that the switch and investments were fundamentally 
unsuitable/misrepresented rather than just not performing quite as predicted, which could 
be down to various market conditions.
It appears that Mr R complained to Positive Solutions in 2017 after hearing about other 
complaints made about the same advice and investment. Having done so, based on 
what Ive seen, he did not breach any of our time limits as I dont think he ought 
reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint more than three years before 
this.
So, my decision is that this complaint has been brought within our time limits.
Is Positive Solutions responsible for the complaint?
As explained above, Mr Rs complaint is about advice he says was given to him by Mr S to switch his pension to a SIPP to invest in various companies. Positive Solutions has 
said that it isnt responsible for acts which it did not authorise in its contractual 
arrangements with those registered individuals. So, Ive considered the contract that 
Positive Solutions had with Mr S and the law on this issue. 
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if that complaint relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including 
regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions (Quilter) is a firm under our rules.
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect 
of activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So there are two further issues to be determined before I can decide whether this 
complaint can be considered against Positive Solutions under our compulsory 
jurisdiction:
1. Were the acts about which Mr R complains done in the carrying on of a 
regulated activity?
2. Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions, responsible for those acts?
Were the acts about which Mr R complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
A personal pension is an investment specified in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). 
So advice to switch a personal pension to a SIPP is regulated investment advice as per 
Article 53 of the RAO. Shares are also specified investments. So advice to invest in the 
shares is also regulated investment advice. And arranging deals in the personal 
pensions, SIPP and shares is regulated as per Article 25 of the RAO.
I am satisfied Mr S advised Mr R to switch his existing personal pensions into a SIPP, to 
invest in the companies set out above, and made arrangements for these things to 
happen.
I acknowledge there is not the sort of documentation you might generally expect to 
see where advice has been given, such as a suitability report. However, it doesnt 
follow that advice was not given.
It is Mr Rs recollection that he was advised by Mr S. And I think that recollection is 
plausible. Mr R had little investment experience, and I think it unlikely that he would have 
thought of switching his existing pension to invest in the various companies unless the 
idea was put to him.
Mr S was also named as the financial advisor on the SIPP application form. And in 
January 2009, Mr S sent the SIPP operator applications and instructions for investments 
in three of the companies using SIPP funds.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Mr S carried out the regulated activities 
of advising on and making arrangements for Mr R to buy or sell or subscribe for a 
security or relevant investment in connection with the switch to the SIPP and 
investment of pension funds into the companies.
Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions, responsible for those acts?
In looking at this question, I first need to consider the fact that Mr S was not an employee 
of Positive Solutions  he was its agent and had an agency agreement with Positive 
Solutions to be one of its RIs. This meant that Positive Solutions authorised Mr S to carry 
out certain regulated acts on its behalf. The agency agreement was non-exclusive and 
did not prevent Mr S acting independently or for another firm at the same time. So was Mr 
S purporting to act as an agent of Positive Solutions when giving the advice and making 
the arrangements?
I think he was because:Mr Ss details with Positive Solutions authorisation number appears on the 
SIPP application form.
Mr S wrote to the SIPP operator in January 2009 with investment instructions 
using Positive Solutions letterhead.
Mr S presented Mr R with Positive Solutions business card.
But that is not the end of the matter. Relationships like the one between Positive Solutions 
and Mr S require an analysis of agency law. Agency is where one party (the principal  
here Positive Solutions) allows another party (the agent  here Mr S) to act on its behalf in 
such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. An agent may have actual 
authority, where the principal has expressly or impliedly given its assent to the agent that 
it may act on its behalf. Or the agent may have apparent authority, where the principal 
has made a representation to a third party that the agent has authority to act on its behalf 
and the third party has relied on this representation.
There is an express agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr S. But the agreement 
sets out that Mr S must account to Positive Solutions for all business and only advise on 
investments that it had pre-approved. There is also a general point in agency of this type 
that the agent is required to act in the principals best interests.
After my provisional decision, Positive Solutions also said that its regulatory permissions 
didnt allow it to advise on share investments at the time. So it says that it couldnt possibly 
have authorised Mr S to give the advice given to Mr R here. 
Although I cant be certain about what the permissions were in 2009, I can see that 
Positive Solutions (Quilters) current permissions on the regulators register do in fact 
permit advice on shares.
But regardless of whether or not advice on shares was permitted, my view is that Mr S 
didnt comply fully with the agreement. The SIPP operator appears to be on Positive 
Solutions list of approved investments, but the unlisted companies were not. It doesnt 
appear that Mr S notified Positive Solutions about what he was doing either. So I think its 
likely that Mr S was not acting in accordance with the actual authority he had been given. 
So, I cant currently conclude that Positive Solutions accepted responsibility for acts 
complained about by Mr S by way of actual authority.
However, there is also agency based on apparent authority. The essence of apparent 
authority is not concerned with what was actually agreed between the parties (for 
example by way of the agency agreement), but rather, how the relationship between 
those parties appeared to third parties. In this complaint, Im concerned with how the 
relationship appeared to Mr R.
Apparent authority arises when the principal represents to third parties through words or 
conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably 
relies upon that representation. The case law makes it clear that whether a claimant has 
relied on a representation is dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So 
here, I must consider whether, on the facts of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr R that Mr S had Positive 
Solutions authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities she now 
complains about; and
Mr R reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the 
transactions she now complains about.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mr R that Mr S had the relevant authority?
I think Positive Solutions placed Mr S in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr R complains about. I 
say this for the following reasons.
Mr S advised Mr R, and arranged for Mr R, to switch his pensions to a SIPP, and make 
the investment. These activities were provided for in Positive Solutions procedures. 
None of these activities were in themselves novel or exceptional or unexpected for an 
IFA firm. These are activities that fall within the class of activities that IFAs are usually 
authorised to do.
Any restrictions on the authority to give certain types advice would not have been visible 
to Mrs R. So for example he would not know that Mr R should only recommend 
approved investments, and should present the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr S to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive 
Solutions arranged for Mr S to appear on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions. 
And Mr S was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the 
disputed advice.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser that gave advice 
and offered products from the whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No 
information was provided to clients or potential clients about the agent being authorised 
in relation to approved products only.
Positive Solutions provided Mr S with Positive Solutions business stationery. 
Furthermore, Mr R was provided with a business card and a Positive Solutions email 
address.
Positive Solutions name and FSA details were used to set up the SIPP. Whilst it is my 
understanding that Mr S completed these forms (or at least submitted the completed 
forms to the SIPP operator)  not Positive Solutions  it was Positive Solutions that had 
put him in the position to do this.
It was also in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr R, to 
understand that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I 
am satisfied that Positive Solutions intended Mr R to act on its representation that Mr S 
was its financial adviser. I do not see how Positive Solutions could have carried out its 
business activities at all if the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr 
S as having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions has now said that at the time of the events it didnt have permissions to 
give advice on shares and that this should be taken account. I cant be sure what the 
permissions were at the time, but currently the regulators register does show permission 
for Positive Solutions to give advice on shares. But whether the register showed the 
permissions to advise on shares or not, I would not expect an ordinary consumer to 
undertake an analysis of the register to determine precisely what Positive Solutions agent 
was allowed to do as an investment adviser. And of course this complaint involves more 
than just shares  it also involves a pension. So, Im not persuaded this argument 
diminishes the representations Ive set out above.
Did Mr R rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Mr S advised Mr R to set up a SIPP and to switch his existing personal pensions to it. Mr 
R has said Mr S presented himself as a Positive Solutions adviser when he gave that 
advice.
The SIPP application was completed with Mr S referred to as acting for Positive 
Solutions. And the application was sent to the SIPP operator by Mr S using Positive 
Solutions headed paper.
In these circumstances, it was reasonable for Mr R to think that he was getting financial 
advice from someone who was authorised to give such advice. Mr S wasnt regulated to give advice on his own behalf, and the FSA register showed that he was only allowed to 
give such advice on Positive Solutions behalf.
I also think that it is very unlikely Mr R would have followed Mr Ss advice had he 
been aware he didnt have the authority to act.
It is the case Mr S did not confirm the advice in a suitability report or similar, making it 
clear the advice was from Positive Solutions. It is however my view that the absence of 
these documents does not clearly establish the capacity in which the advice was given.
I cant see that there is evidence that Mr R knew or should reasonably have known that 
Mr S was not acting for Positive Solutions  in accordance with its general 
representation that Mr S had its authority to act for it as it financial adviser - in every 
respect in relation to the setting up of the SIPP and the investments in the companies.
In my view the evidence does indicate that Mr R proceeded on the basis that Mr S 
was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from 
Positive Solutions so to act.
So, overall, my view is that this is a complaint that has been brought in time and Positive 
Solutions is responsible for the acts being complained about. So I will go on to consider 
the merits below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Positive Solutions hasnt disputed my provisional findings on the merits. Having looked at 
matters again, I consider Mr R was given unsuitable advice  and that if he had been 
given suitable advice, he would have not switched his existing arrangements in respect of 
his pensions.
At the time of advice Mr R had a modest income and he has recently told us he also 
had a small final salary pension fund  but the funds transferred were a significant part 
of his pension savings. Mr R could not therefore afford to take a significant risk with his 
pension. He also had no investment experience.
Mr R was advised to use more than more half of the transferred pension funds to private 
unlisted companies with a limited track record  so they were high risk and speculative. 
There was a possibility they would fail, and his investment would be lost. Around £30,000 
was invested in two public limited companies. Even if these companies were listed (its 
not clear whether they were) this would do little to mitigate the higher risks of investing in 
the unlisted companies as even these investments were focused on the success or failure 
of just two companies. This strategy was clearly not suitable medium risk investor such as 
Mr R.
I therefore think Mr S should have concluded the switches to the SIPP and to invest in the 
companies were not suitable. So it was not therefore fair and reasonable for Mr S to advise 
Mr R to make the switches and investments.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
What should Positive Solutions do?
Positive Solutions should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to 
the position Mr R would be in if he had not switched from his existing pensions. In 
summary, Positive Solutions should:In respect of the SIPP investment:
1. Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the investments.
2. Take ownership of the shares.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Rs pension in respect of his pension 
loss. If that is not possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr R direct. In 
either case the payment should take into account necessary adjustments set 
out below.
4. Pay Mr Rs SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event he is not now able to 
close his SIPP.
Ill explain how Positive Solutions should carry out the calculation set out at 1-4 above 
in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the switches
To do this, Positive Solutions should work out the likely value of Mr Rs pensions as at 
the date of this decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the 
SIPP.
Positive Solutions should ask Mr Rs former pension provider to calculate the current 
notional transfer value had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to calculate the 
value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved if the pensions had not been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr R has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr R paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional 
transfer value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Positive Solutions totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the shares
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP the shares - could be removed from the SIPP if they 
havent been removed already. Mr R would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, 
and avoid paying further fees for the SIPP. For calculating compensation, Positive 
Solutions should agree an amount with the SIPP operator as a commercial value for the 
shares. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the 
shares.
If Positive Solutions is able to purchase the shares then the price paid to purchase the 
holding/s should be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been 
paid into the SIPP to secure the holding/s).
If Positive Solutions is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the shares, it 
should give them a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr 
R is compensated in full, Positive Solutions may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the shares. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr R 
may receive from the investments and any eventual sums he would be able to access 
from the SIPP. If Positive Solutions chooses to limit compensation to our award limit, the undertaking should only apply to any amounts received once Mr R has been fully 
compensated in line with this decision. Positive Solutions will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr R for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr R has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr R could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Rs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr R may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr R direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr R should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr R is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr R is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Positive Solutions 
should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on 
the most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr R 
would not be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it would not be fair for him to 
have to pay fees to keep it open. And I am satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for 
things to be sorted out with the shares, and the SIPP to be closed.
But to be clear, these fees will only be payable by Positive Solutions if Mr R is unable to 
close his SIPP.
Trouble and upset
Positive Solutions should pay Mr R £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him 
by receiving the unsuitable advice.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Positive 
Solutions receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
Positive Solutions should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be calculated as above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should 
pay Mr R the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays Mr R the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr R can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman