DRN-2749611
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt compensate him enough after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy and lengthy, inadequate repairs were carried out.    
What happened
Previously, Mr C accepted £300 compensation from Aviva for the poor repairs to his car 
following three attempts at rectification. His car has now been repaired a further four times 
and Avivas engineer says its 98% back to its pre-accident condition. Aviva has now offered 
Mr C compensation of £1,000 and has refunded the £737.35 he paid for suspension work on 
the car. But Mr C thinks hes lost £2,000 on the cars value. He wants Aviva to pay for that.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C cant show that he had a firm offer to buy the car for more than its now worth, but 
anyway I think its generally accepted that a cars value reduces after an accident. Even a 
well-repaired car isnt as attractive to buyers as it would have been previously. Depreciation 
also affects a cars value, whether or not it has been damaged. I dont think the valuation 
provided by Mr C recently is helpful. Hes compared the pre-accident valuation for his car in 
good condition to the post-repair valuation of it in poor condition. But I dont think Mr C has 
shown that his car is in poor condition, even if some minor issues remain.
 
I appreciate that Mr C has faced a very frustrating time. But Aviva kept him in hire during the 
repairs and I think it acted fairly in refunding the cost of the repair he paid for and in offering 
compensation of £1,000. I think thats sufficient to cover some loss of value on the car, plus 
a reasonable sum for the further distress and inconvenience Mr C faced.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
