DRN-3198773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Union Reisversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs G took out a travel insurance policy with URV. They were due to 
go on holiday in late April 2020, returning in May 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health 
Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel. That 
guidance remained in place until Mr and Mrs Gs intended departure. 
Mr and Mrs G claimed on their travel insurance policy for the costs of their holiday which 
they hadnt been able to recover. URV said that Mr and Mrs G had bought the policy on 11 
March 2020 and when travel restrictions were in place. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He 
explained that the policy had an exclusion for travelling against FCDO advice but also didnt 
cover cancellation for that reason. He didnt think this was clear from the policy terms. 
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said 
that it was up to Mr and Mrs G to ensure that they had the right level of cover and that they 
could have purchased a policy offering cover for a change in FCDO advice. Mr and Mrs G 
responded to say that theyd decided to abandon their travel plans after the flight 
cancellation. They also said that there was no reference in the policy to unforeseen events 
and there was no reference to pandemics. Finally, they pointed out that there was no FCDO 
advice in place or restrictions at their destination when theyd booked the holiday. And they 
asked that this was reflected in any further findings. So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page two it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. 
Page 7 of the policy sets out a list of the specific events URV covers if a policyholder has to 
cancel their trip. These are:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died:
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
URV initially argued that Covid-19 was a known event at the point Mr and Mrs G took 
out their policy as this is an exclusion under the abandonment section of the policy. 
Although Mr and Mrs G took out the policy on 11 March URV hasnt provided 
evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs G were made aware during the sales 
process that Covid-19 claims wouldnt be covered. And, in any event this exclusion 
doesnt apply to the section of the policy entitled, If you are unable to go on your trip. 
URV also didnt make any further representations about this exclusion in response to 
our investigators opinion. 
Mr and Mrs G also think that the abandonment section of the policy should provide 
them with cover. I dont think that this part of the policy applies on the facts of this 
case as it covers a policyholder who decides not to go on a trip after a delay of 24 
hours or more. But Mr and Mrs Gs outbound flight wasnt delayed for 24 hours, it 
was cancelled due to the impact of the pandemic and international travel restrictions.
Ive also taken into account that there is no mention of pandemics in the policy. 
Thats because the policy specifies the risks it is prepared to cover. No policy will 
cover every eventuality. But, in any event, I think there are other reasons to uphold 
this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip because their flights were cancelled. And this was 
in part due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to the destination 
they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking 
into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on 
to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs G had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs G.   
Mr and Mrs G would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of 
Mr and Mrs G and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs G would have purchased 
the policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. I bear in mind that its most likely 
Mr and Mrs G would have been able to purchase a policy which offered such cover at 
the time they purchased this policy. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G have been able to recover some of their costs from 
the accommodation provider. So, theyre likely to need to provide updated details of 
the remaining outstanding costs to URV so that they can reassess the claim in line 
with my direction.  
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Union Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman