DRN-4394159
The complaint
Mr E complains National Westminster Bank Plc failed to treat him fairly regarding debt owed 
on his overdraft and a personal loan when they closed his accounts. He says they refused to 
discuss reasonable ways forward to repay what he owed, sent him contradictory information, 
and unfairly recorded defaults against both accounts. He wants the default removed from his 
personal loan account and compensation for how he was treated.
What happened
The following repeats the facts I set out in my provisional decision. They are repeated for the 
purposes of issuing this final decision.
Mr E brought several other complaints to our service regarding NatWest. Those complaints 
are not reconsidered here. But its important I highlight his other complaint about 
unaffordable lending regarding his overdraft. The ombudsman for that complaint decided 
NatWest lent irresponsibly to Mr E and Mr Es credit file shows no default is now recorded.
This final decision concerns whether NatWest treated Mr E fairly with regard to the 
repayment of his debt for his personal loan and overdraft.
The relevant background facts to Mr Es complaint are:
NatWest decided to close all of Mr Es accounts in early January 2020. They called in 
the debt for his overdraft and said he needed to keep to his contractual loan 
repayments.
Mr E contacted NatWest throughout this period after receiving a series of letters. He 
wanted to agree a way forward to make reasonable repayments towards his debt, as 
he was experiencing some financial difficulties around that time.
Ive read all the letters NatWest and Mr E have presented but find no need to 
comment on every letter. Its clear however, that at least one letter told him he could 
contact NatWest to discuss potential ways forward to repay his debt.
NatWests records indicate they refused to discuss other ways forward to repay his 
debt.
Mr Es credit file shows NatWest began reporting a default regarding his personal 
loan on 31 March 2020. They passed his debt to a debt collection agent acting on 
their behalf.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Es complaint. I said:
Im not satisfied NatWest demonstrated they fairly considered Mr Es circumstances 
regarding his debt. From what I see Mr E failed to make one loan payment in November 
2020, after which he made a further loan repayment. Then NatWest decided to close his 
account.
Mr E said he wanted to discuss potential ways to repay his loan and overdraft due to 
experiencing some financial difficulties at the time. But he says NatWest refused to engage 
on what they could do to help. On reviewing the available evidence, I agree NatWest didnt 
try to discuss potential ways forward with him.
NatWest has various responsibilities towards customers to see how they can help when they 
are in financial difficulties. They should act with appropriate forbearance and due 
consideration. Acting with forbearance and due consideration can mean different things 
depending on each customer and wider circumstances. But it can mean looking at a 
customers income and expenditure to see whether a repayment plan is possible or payment 
holidays to allow a customer the opportunity to recover their financial position.
Ive considered NatWests submissions, but I havent seen a persuasive reason for them not 
to have engaged with Mr E on exploring ways to help him repay his debt. I dont find them 
terminating his accounts means they could forgo their responsibilities. And, while I have 
considered their reason(s) for closing his accounts, which I have treated in confidence, I 
dont find them sufficient to warrant not engaging on ways they could help him.
Mr E repaid his debt in full in 2021. Prior to this he says as his account had been defaulted, 
he focused on repaying other non-defaulted debt he held elsewhere. So, I dont find what he 
paid to NatWests collection agent indicative of what he could have paid had NatWest 
discussed his circumstances with him as they should have.
Neither have I seen telling evidence that Mr Es circumstances were such that NatWest 
couldnt have agreed a reasonable way forward which wouldnt have resulted in a default.
On reviewing the letters NatWest sent to Mr E before they recorded defaults, I understand 
why he was confused. Some letters said he could contact them to discuss ways forward to 
repay his debt, but the other evidence indicates they werent open to discussing alternative 
ways to help him when he was experiencing financial difficulty. I have no doubt this caused 
some him concern and frustration.
To put matters right I said NatWest should:
Remove the default marker from Mr Es credit file in relation to his loan
Pay Mr E £500 for unfairly recording a default marker, which considering how long it 
has been recorded would have caused him concern and worry over a prolonged 
period. This sum also accounts for the potential that he may not have been able to 
benefit from certain lending products due to the markers presence.
Mr E referred to not being able to agree a new rate on his mortgage as a result of the 
marker. This may well have been the case, but there are many variables which affect 
a lenders decision, and I havent seen persuasive evidence to show he could have 
agreed the rate he wanted if the marker didnt exist.
Ive also borne in mind that even if a default marker wasnt recorded, this doesnt 
mean NatWest might not have fairly recorded other information in the event a 
repayment plan was agreed, which could also affect lending decisions. Similarly,    
Mr E described being in financial difficulty at certain times, which would likely affect 
the affordability considerations of lenders.
Since I issued my provisional decision both Mr E and NatWest responded within the deadline to accept my provisional decision. As a result, I have now proceeded to make a 
final decision, so that Mr E is provided with a decision he can accept so it is legally 
enforceable in court should the need arise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Those findings are repeated above and now form the basis for this final decision. 
Putting things right
Subject to Mr E accepting this final decision within the deadline below, I direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Remove the default marker from Mr Es credit file in relation to his loan.
Pay Mr E £500 for unfairly recording a default marker, which considering how long it 
has been recorded would have caused him concern and worry over a prolonged 
period. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc need to put matters 
right in accordance with my above direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman