DRN-4235310
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complains about how their insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral), handled a claim under their motor insurance policy.
 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In October 2022, while checking the engine oil level, Mr S and Mrs S noticed their vehicle 
appeared to have suffered rodent damage to the under-bonnet insulation and several wires 
appearing loose. The vehicle started and ran without obvious issues, other than illumination 
of an ancillary equipment warning light. 
They contacted Admiral to tell them about the damage. They were asked to complete an 
online claim form, which they did (including photographs of the damage) and a further 
vehicle inspection form. Admiral appointed an engineer (A) to inspect the vehicle. A 
contacted Mr S and Mrs S to arrange a date to inspect the vehicle, although Mr S and Mrs S 
preferred A collect the vehicle. A were busy and said they would come back to them.
Mr S and Mrs S then received a call from Admiral, saying they considered the damage to the 
vehicle meant it would be deemed a total loss. Admiral told them they could either: accept an 
offer to settle the claim on a total loss basis (and the vehicle would belong to Admiral); 
arrange their own inspection of the vehicle and commission repairs (at Admirals cost but 
their risk); or accept a lower offer (and retain the vehicle); or withdraw their claim.
Mr S and Mrs S subsequently received emails from Admiral, referring only to the options of a 
total loss settlement (with them either retaining the vehicle or it remaining with Admiral). Mr S 
and Mrs S were also unhappy at deductions Admiral proposed to make from the offer (as the 
vehicles MOT had expired in September) and saying their private licence plate would need 
to be retained by Mr S and Mrs S within 10 days.
Mr S And Mrs S werent happy with the offer (based on a gross valuation of £18,195), 
thinking it significantly lower than its value, given its condition. They said theyd had the 
vehicle valued through online vehicle purchase websites, receiving quotations some £4,000 
more than Admirals valuation. They were also unhappy the vehicle had been deemed a total 
loss without being physically inspected by A but based on their description of the damage 
and the photographs theyd provided.
Mr S and Mrs S then had the vehicle inspected by a local engineer, who started the vehicle 
and checked warning lights and ancillary equipment. The engineer said the vehicle would be 
economically repairable, by repair or replacement of the wiring loom. Mr S and Mrs S told 
Admiral about the engineers findings, who said theyd review the information. Admiral then 
emailed Mr S and Mrs S with an estimate of the cost of repairs prepared by A (£12,268).
Mr S and Mrs S then engaged a second engineer to inspect the vehicle, who said there was 
minor rodent damage to two injector wirings and cables to the battery. He carried out 
repairs and said they could be considered permanent, with the vehicle running normally. The 
engineer charged £270 for the repair. The first engineer then inspected the vehicle (with 
diagnostic equipment) and said it was running normally (with no warning lights present). 
They charged £240 for their inspection. The vehicle subsequently passed its MOT.
Mr S and Mrs S then complained to Admiral, raising several issues. These included Admiral 
withdrawing the option to have the vehicle independently inspected or withdrawing their 
claim. They thought As repair estimate excessive (seemingly based on replacing all the 
vehicles wiring looms) and wasnt based on their having physically inspected the vehicle. Mr 
S and Mrs S said theyd been affected financially by the cost of the second inspection, losing 
use of the vehicle for most of October; not having the vehicle taxed for October (Admiral 
having insisted the vehicle have a Statutory Off Road Notice (SORN) as they took the 
vehicle off cover when they deemed it a total loss) and disruption to their holiday and the 
time spent discussing the situation with Admiral. The incident had also caused them 
considerable stress and anxiety, for which they thought they should be compensated.
Having not received a response to their complaint (other than an acknowledgement) Mr S 
and Mrs S then complained to this service (February 2023). They were unhappy about not 
receiving a response from Admiral to their complaint, lodged in October 2022. They wanted 
Admiral to investigate their complaint and provide a resolution of the issues theyd raised. 
Admiral upheld most of the issues raised in the complaint. In their final response (issued in 
March 2023, after Mr S and Mrs S raised their complaint to this service) they apologised for 
the inconvenience. They said theyd made the correct decision to deem the vehicle a total 
loss (the decision was made by Admirals in-house engineer, not A). The decision was also 
based on having  in accordance with the vehicle manufacturers requirements  to replace 
in full the damaged electrical wiring looms. The cost of these (added to the labour cost) 
meant the estimate to repair the vehicle exceeded what Admiral considered to be an 
economical repair. Admiral also accepted theyd applied a total loss marker to the vehicle 
without making this clear to Mr S and Mrs S (it was removed following the vehicle being 
repaired  Admiral then closed the claim as a notification only incident). Admiral accepted 
there had been a lack of communication from their Complaints Department. In recognition of 
the points theyd upheld, Admiral awarded £150 for trouble and upset. They also awarded 
£50 as a goodwill payment for the length of time taken to respond to the complaint. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with Admirals response, saying the total compensation of 
£200 wasnt sufficient, so they didnt accept it. They were also still unhappy at Admirals 
settlement offer, saying they subsequently sold the vehicle (March 2023) for significantly 
more than Admirals initial valuation. This was why theyd decided to have their vehicle 
inspected by two engineers (and have it repaired).
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admirals offer of 
compensation was adequate and didnt need to do anything more. Admiral wouldnt have 
been able to repair the car in the way Mr S and Mrs Ss engineer could. And because the 
vehicle was repaired, Mr S and Mrs S hadnt suffered financially from the settlement offer. As 
Admiral initially treated the vehicle as a total loss, it was reasonable to remove it from cover. 
Notification of the damage through to the vehicle being repaired (and having a fresh MOT) 
had not extended beyond October 2022, so the claims process wasnt prolonged, While Mr S 
and Mrs S had to contact Admiral on several occasions, the investigator didnt think this was 
excessive, given the complexities of the claim and its resolution. And while they were 
unhappy at the time taken by Admiral to respond to the complaint, this wasnt something 
within the remit of this service.
Mr S and Mrs S made further representations. They said theyd had their vehicle repaired 
because of the low settlement offer made by Admiral. They thought a fair market value for 
the vehicle would be around £23,000 (compared to Admirals initial valuation of £18,195 which was subsequently increased to £18,434 and then £19,400). And theyd sold the 
vehicle to a dealer for £20,847 in February 2023. Theyd felt pressured by Admiral into 
accepting their settlement offer because theyd deemed the vehicle a total loss (a Category N 
loss) which would have significantly affected its value should they have decided to repair the 
vehicle.  Had Admiral made a fair settlement offer, they would have accepted it. 
Our investigator considered the representations made by Mr S and Mrs S and issued a 
further view. He thought Admiral offered the market value of the car, based on recognised 
industry valuation guides. Having checked the guides, the settlement offer was in line with 
those figures (which were based on retail values, not trade values). As Admirals revised 
settlement offer of £19,400 was within the retail market valuations for the vehicle, the 
investigator didnt think Admiral had acted unfairly.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They didnt agree Admiral had offered a fair settlement (valuation) saying 
theyd been told in discussion with Admiral the settlement offer was based on [average] 
trade values (not retail). And prices for vehicles, particularly ones in excellent condition, were 
higher than values provided by industry valuation guides. They also provided evidence of the 
time theyd spent making calls to Admiral, saying theyd also spent time receiving calls. They 
didnt think the compensation awarded by Admiral reflected this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr S and Mrs S.
Looking at what happened and the information and evidence available, I think there are two 
broad issues in Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. Firstly, theres Admirals initial decision to treat 
the vehicle as a total loss and, consequently, the settlement offer made to Mr S and Mrs S. 
Mr S and Mrs S say they were initially given four options, but subsequently only two 
following Admirals decision to treat the vehicle as a total loss. And because they thought 
Admirals valuation significantly less than what they considered to be fair, they decided to 
have the vehicle repaired. Admiral say the estimated cost of repairing the vehicle (based on 
full replacement of the affected electrical looms) made it beyond economical repair. And they 
made a fair settlement offer based on valuations from recognised industry valuation guides.
Taking these points in turn, Admiral considered the damage from description and 
photographs provided by Mr S and Mrs S. While they (A) didnt physically inspect the 
vehicle, they were able to produce an estimate based on what theyd seen and what they 
thought would be needed to repair the vehicle. Ive noted the following comment from 
Admirals in-house engineer contained in Admirals case notes:
The policyholder car has been deemed a total loss and the reasons for this are 
down to the costs of parts.
As the electrical wiring looms have been chewed by the rodents then the repair 
methods are that the full electrical looms that are damaged need to be replaced, 
these are very costly parts and with parts and labour cost combined this has taken 
the repairs over the max amount [that would mean the vehicle wouldnt be 
considered economical to repair].
We are not permitted to repair the wiring which would be a lot less in costs but for 
safety reasons the parts would need to be replaced and also very often on this type of claim we could change the wiring looms and then find further electrical issues 
which arent visible at the time of repairs.
Also with the issues obtaining parts at the moment and these are specialist order 
then there could be very long delays in obtaining the parts.
This would explain the high estimated cost of repair from A, and why Admiral considered the 
car to be a total loss (Category N  meaning a vehicle had suffered non-structural damage 
and could be repaired to a roadworthy condition and put back into use). Based on their in-
house engineers assessment, I dont think this is unreasonable. That being the case, Id 
have expected Admiral to offer a settlement based on their assessment of the market value 
of the car (which is what the policy provides for).
 
And as a Category N total loss, Id also have expected them to make an offer on two bases: 
a settlement where they take ownership of the vehicle (and then dispose of it) or a 
settlement where the policyholder elects to keep the vehicle and have it repaired (which 
would mean a settlement value less the estimated salvage value Admiral would otherwise 
have expected to receive had the vehicle been retained by them and disposed of).
Ive then considered the settlement offer made by Admiral, based on their valuation. In 
making a settlement offer, insurers will use values obtained for the vehicle in question by 
recognised industry valuation guides. As an approach, we dont consider this unreasonable.
 
Ive then looked at the information available on the valuation of the vehicle from recognised 
industry valuation guides. Ive looked at valuations from three recognised guides. Based on 
retail values they range from £19,070 through £20,000 to £21,504 (the latter is described as 
market value). Admiral initially offered settlement based on a valuation of £18,195 which 
they subsequently increased to £19,400. In both cases, those valuations were then subject 
to a deduction of 10% because (at the time) the vehicles MOT certificate has expired (Ive 
seen information from the DVSA the MOT had expired the previous month  which would 
explain why Mr S and Mrs S had, once the vehicle had been repaired, to obtain a fresh MOT 
certificate).
As a service, our approach is that if an insurer makes a settlement offer that falls within the 
range provided by recognised industry valuation guides, then we cant conclude an insurer 
has acted unfairly. In this case, the revised valuation offered is within the range, so Ive 
concluded Admiral didnt act unfairly.
I recognise what Mr S and Mrs S have said about the value of their car, including valuations 
from other sources and that subsequently they were able to sell their vehicle (to a 
manufacturer main dealer for more than Admirals settlement offer (valuation). But this 
doesnt mean Admiral acted unfairly. And it was their choice to reject Admirals valuation and 
consequently engage engineers to inspect (and then repair) their vehicle. Which then 
passed the MOT test and could be returned to use (and subsequent sale). So, they havent 
lost out financially from Admirals offer. And the vehicle wasnt categorised as a total loss, 
given it had been repaired outside of a total loss settlement.
So, Ive concluded Admiral havent acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The second main issue concerns the way Admiral handled the claim, including their 
communication with Mr S and Mrs S. Their final response includes an acceptance (through 
upholding most of the complaint points) they didnt communicate clearly with Mr S and Mrs S 
on several counts. Ive considered both what Mr S and Mrs have said about what happened 
and Admirals case notes and I agree Mr S and Mrs S suffered stress and inconvenience 
from what happened. While the claim was resolved (through being deemed to be a notification only incident, as the vehicle had been repaired) I can see it took considerable 
time on the part of Mr S and Mrs S. While making a claim and dealing with its assessment 
would always have involved time and effort from Mr S and Mrs S, it was greater in this case 
due to the issues Admiral have acknowledged.
When making their complaint (to Admiral) Mr S and Mrs S raised a number of points, for 
example the cost of the engineer inspections and repairs and loss of the use of the vehicle 
for most of October 2022. Ive considered these points, but I dont think they change my 
conclusions. It was Mr S and Mrs Ss decision to engage the engineers (and have the 
vehicle repaired) and subsequently brought back into use. But as the indications from the 
information Ive seen are that the vehicles MOT expired in September 2022 (before the 
incident) then it would always have been the case the vehicle couldnt have been used (on 
public roads) until it had a new MOT certificate (which was Mr S and Mrs Ss responsibility). 
And having initially deemed the vehicle a total loss, it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to 
withdraw cover and require an SORN. And to restore cover when the vehicle was repaired 
and had a fresh MOT.
Taking all these points into account, I think Mr S and Mrs S did suffer distress and 
inconvenience to a greater degree than was necessary (though as Ive noted above, making 
a claim and having it assessed would always have meant some degree of inconvenience). 
Looking at the circumstances of the case and the guidelines we operate to as a service, then 
Ive concluded £150 in compensation for inconvenience would be fair and reasonable (as 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity that falls under out remit as a service, I cant say 
the £50 awarded by Admiral is unfair or unreasonable).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman