DRN-3673035
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that hes been unable to access his accounts with Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money.) He says hes been discriminated against 
because hes disabled.
What happened
Mr G held various accounts with Virgin Money, including a current account, a credit card, 
and savings accounts. Mr G has mental and physical disabilities which require him to 
have a carer and can leave him bed bound.
Mr G had been managing his accounts online via Virgin Moneys website. In early 
2021 Virgin Money decided to offer their credit card customers online banking only 
through an app. Mr G tried to switch his online banking to the app, but had difficulties 
in downloading and accessing it.
In August 2021 Mr G contacted us to complain about Virgin Money. He said, in summary:
hed been unable to access his accounts online for over a year;
he bought a number of new devices after Virgin Money told him he needed to, but 
he still couldnt access his accounts, so he thought there was a data issue;
he contacted Virgin Moneys Specialist Support Team as they advised, but they 
verbally abused him and put the phone down; and
hes been bullied and discriminated against by Virgin Money, and he thinks 
theyve breached the Equality Act 2010.
Virgin Money addressed Mr Gs complaints in their final responses of 5 May 2021 and 
of 6 June 2021.
They said Mr G has previously raised a number of complaints with them about accessing 
his accounts online and customer service issues and has received a total of £590 in 
compensation.
They say theyve offered Mr G help and support by asking him to contact their Specialist 
Support Team rather than call the general customer service number, but he continues to 
call the general number  so theyre not going to look at any more complaints he raises 
about the service he receives on the general number.
They said theyd given him advice about the team to contact to help him set up the 
mobile app on his tablet so he can access his accounts online. They also reiterated the 
help available from the Specialist Support Team.
They said that during some of the calls he made to them, they asked for his date of 
birth after previously agreeing not to. They apologised for this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G didnt agree, so his complaint 
was been passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 13 July 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments from Virgin Money and Mr G 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint because I dont agree Virgin 
Money have treated him fairly here. Ill explain why.
Mr G had been a customer of Virgin Money for some time. Virgin Money allowed 
customers to manage their accounts online via their website and Mr G had been able to 
use that method for some time without problems. But in 2021, Virgin Money took the 
decision to move credit card accounts to app only  meaning customers, including Mr G, 
could no longer manage their accounts through the website. Mr G tried to switch to 
managing his account via the app. But he was unable to make the app work for him.
At the time Mr G brought his complaint to us he was still unable to access his accounts 
through Virgin Moneys app. So Ive considered what Virgin Money have done to help 
him with this.
Mr G has had ongoing difficulties accessing his accounts via the mobile app. His main 
concern was his credit card account. He was receiving messages saying his statements 
were available, but because he couldnt use the app he couldnt see if he needed to 
make a payment.
Mr G has described his health conditions to us, and how they impact on his day to day life, 
including his ability to use technology. Ive taken into account what he says, and Im 
satisfied that Mr G has a disability which affects him in various ways. One of the ways in 
which it affects him is that he needs a larger font size to be able to manage touch screen 
devices.
His disability means hes unable to log into the app from his phone screen, 
because it doesnt show the complete security number using the larger font size he 
needs.
Virgin Money said Mr G should try to use a bigger screen so he could see the full 
security number. But for Mr G this meant buying a new device with a bigger screen. 
Virgin Money
havent done anything wrong by suggesting a bigger screen may help. I can also see 
Virgin Moneys technical team did try to help Mr G set the app up on his tablet, but they 
were unable to make things work. Ive not seen anything to suggest Virgin Money 
deliberately blocked Mr Gs access to the app, or that there were systems errors which 
stopped him from using it. The difficulties Mr G has had here have stemmed from his 
disability.
Virgin Money have an obligation under the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable 
adjustments to remove barriers to consumers with disabilities using their services. The 
Act says that where Virgin Money has a provision, criterion or practice that might put Mr 
G at a substantial disadvantage  compared to a person without a disability  in 
accessing their services, they should take reasonable steps to remove the disadvantage. The Act also says that where, but for the provision of an auxiliary aid, Mr G would be put 
at a substantial disadvantage, they should take reasonable steps to provide that aid. This 
is relevant law for me to take into account, and I have done so.
Virgin Money made a business decision to switch to using an app, which has caused Mr G 
to be unable to access his online banking easily, due to his disabilities. And hes been put 
in a worse position than Virgin Moneys other customers because of this. Its relevant to 
note that Mr G is an existing customer, who was able to use Virgin Moneys services until 
it withdrew access outside the app. Nothing in Mr Gs situation has changed  rather, 
Virgin Money has now made a change to their services which means Mr G can no longer 
access them.
Virgin Money could have done more to explore with Mr G how they could make 
reasonable adjustments for him to help him to continue to bank online and to make sure 
he didnt receive a worse service than other customers. Practical solutions may have been 
purchasing a new device for him, rather than asking him to do so, or allowing him to 
continue to have access to online banking for all his accounts via the website, as a special 
case. These are only examples, and there may have been other options too.
Mr G has now decided that he no longer wants to be a customer of Virgin Money so I 
dont need to decide what specific adjustment they need to put in place. But their failure 
to do so caused him considerable upset for which they should compensate him.
I know Mr G thinks the way Virgin Money have treated him has breached the Equality Act. 
But its not my role to make a legal finding on this. My role is to decide whether Virgin 
Money have treated Mr G fairly. Ive taken The Equality Act 2010 into account in deciding 
this, because its relevant law. But whether or not Virgin Money have breached the 
Equality Act would be for a court to decide.
Im sorry to learn Mr G feels he was abused and bullied by Virgin Money during a phone 
call he had with them. Its not clear which call hes referring to  but Ive listened to the 
calls Mr G made on 16 April 2021 and 4 May 2021 which prompted his complaint to us. 
The advisers were not abusive during these calls. And I dont agree the advisers were 
bullying him when they asked him for information. However, Virgin Money had previously 
agreed with Mr G that they wouldnt ask him for his date of birth, but theyve done so a few 
times - including during the call of 4 May 2021. Theyve apologised for this, and I can see 
theyve now updated the notes on Mr Gs accounts to make this clearer.
Virgin Money have already made compensation payments totalling £590 to Mr G, after 
he raised complaints about their online banking process previously  and he didnt bring 
those complaints to us at the time. But as the situation with Mr Gs online baking has 
been ongoing, Ive considered here the overall impact the whole experience has had on 
Mr G when deciding on fair compensation.
I can see that this has caused Mr G frustration and inconvenience, as well as the 
emotional distress of being at a disadvantage compared to Virgin Moneys other 
customers, due to his disability. And in the circumstances Virgin Money should make a 
further payment to recognise the overall impact this experience has had on Mr G. I 
consider an additional £500 to be fair, reasonable, and in line with awards weve made in 
similar circumstances. So my provisional decision is that Virgin Money should pay Mr G 
an additional £500.
It appears the relationship between Mr G and Virgin Money has now broken down, and 
Mr Gs said he wants to close his accounts with Virgin Money. I understand from Virgin 
Money that Mr G has now closed all his accounts with them, apart from his credit card which remains open but with a zero balance. Virgin Money have asked us to let them 
know if Mr G wants his credit card account to be closed too. So if Mr G lets our 
investigator know if he wants to close this account, we can arrange for this to happen 
without him needing to contact Virgin Money directly.
Virgin Money responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary:
since introducing the app they have made reasonable adjustments for customers to 
service their credit card accounts;
their agents were considerably upset by Mr Gs manner during their phone calls with 
him;
it may be best if Mr G closes his account if theyre unable to provide the service he 
requires and because the relationship has broken down. They pointed out the terms 
and conditions of Mr Gs account also gave them the option of closing his account in 
certain circumstances; and
they dont agree £500 compensation is warranted but theyll agree to pay it to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr G replied to say he accepted the £500  but he no longer wished to close his credit card 
account.
Because Mr G had told us he no longer wished to close the account, I issued a follow up to 
my provisional decision to both parties to clarify the position. This is what I said:
I issued my provisional decision on the basis that Mr G had said he wanted his credit card 
to be closed. Mr G has now told us he wants the account to remain open, so this changes 
my decision slightly. Im writing to both parties to explain this and to give them a further 
chance to reply before I issue my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
Virgin Money could have done more to explore with Mr G how they could make 
reasonable adjustments for him to help him to continue to bank online and to make sure 
he didnt receive a worse service than other customers. Practical solutions may have 
been purchasing a new device for him, rather than asking him to do so, or allowing him 
to continue to have access to online banking for all his accounts via the website, as a 
special case. These are only examples, and there may have been other options too.
Mr G has now decided that he no longer wants to be a customer of Virgin Money so I 
dont need to decide what specific adjustment they need to put in place. But their 
failure to do so caused him considerable upset for which they should compensate him.
Because Mr G has now indicated he wants to keep his account open, Virgin Money should 
now work with him to make a reasonable adjustment that allows him to access his account. 
And while its for Virgin Money to find a way to make that work, it seems that the options are 
broadly as Ive set out in my provisional decision - either to ensure Mr G has a device that 
works with the app and with his disability, or ensure he can manage his account online 
outside of the app.
It remains my provisional decision that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ill consider any further any further comments from either party that I receive by 5 October before I issue my final decision.
Neither party replied following this, so Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their response to my provisional decision Virgin Money said theyve made reasonable 
adjustments for their customers to service their accounts by alternative methods to the app if 
they need to. However, I explained in my provisional decision why I dont think that in Mr Gs 
case, theyd gone far enough to make reasonable adjustments for Mr G to access his credit 
card account online. Ive not seen anything in Virgin Moneys response to change my 
provisional decision on this point. 
I do appreciate Virgin Moneys position is that they feel the relationship has broken down 
and when Mr G explained he wanted to close all his accounts with them it appeared that this 
was the case. But Mr Gs now decided he doesnt want to close his credit card account, and 
I have no power to instruct him to do so.
I would remind Mr G that Virgin Money may choose to close his credit card account, in 
accordance with their terms and conditions. But Im not considering whether it would be fair 
for Virgin Money to close Mr Gs credit card account as part of this complaint. Any such 
issue would need to be considered separately.
It remains my decision that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the frustration, 
inconvenience and emotional distress this has caused Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should pay Mr G £500. And they should work with Mr G to make a reasonable 
adjustment that allows him to access his credit card account, as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman