DRN-3023418
The complaint
Mr N complains about delays and problems caused by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) when trying to open a savings account. 
What happened
Mr N received a substantial pay out from two businesses he was the director of. Mr N has 
made separate complaints about how RBS handled his business accounts as well as 
information it reported externally. 
Mr N has told us he was advised to open a savings account with RBS to place his pay out 
into. But the application wasnt approved and Mr N has explained the branch manager he 
was dealing with told him the problem was due to a fraud block recorded against him. 
RBS says the issue with Mr Ns application was caused by a link between him and his 
businesses on its system, not a fraud block. 
Mr N complained to RBS about the problems he experienced. RBS responded and said 
there were no fraud markers recorded against Mr N on its systems. RBS apologised for the 
information Mr N was given during the application process and paid him £100. 
RBS says it shouldve taken two weeks to remove the link, but the process wasnt completed 
until the middle of June 2020. And by this point, Mr N had decided to move his funds to 
another business. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator explained they were only considering Mr Ns complaint about problems opening 
a savings account with RBS. In his complaint, Mr N said hed lost out because of the delays 
by RBS in opening his savings account. Mr N explained hed moved his funds to another 
business instead. 
The investigator asked Mr N to provide evidence to show when hed moved funds to the new 
savings account provider. Mr N forwarded screen prints to show he placed savings with the 
other business, but they didnt show when the accounts were opened or when he started to 
receive interest. The evidence also showed Mr N was receiving a higher interest rate than 
the applicable rates from RBS. 
In the absence of evidence to show the delay in opening a savings account for Mr N had led 
to a financial loss, the investigator said they thought RBS existing settlement of £100 was a 
fair way to resolve Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N didnt accept, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I also want to note that in this decision Im only looking at the delay and issues raised by Mr 
N concerning how his savings account application was handled by RBS. Im aware Mr N has 
other complaints about RBS that relate to his businesses and information reported about 
him. Those complaints are subject to separate investigations and findings. Im satisfied that 
the issues raised in this complaint dont impact the other cases Mr N has asked us to look 
into. So Im going to proceed with my decision concerning how RBS handled Mr Ns savings 
account application. 
RBS accepts Mr Ns application didnt proceed as it should have. The application was 
declined and Mr N has explained he was informed it was due to a fraud marker recorded 
against him by RBS. But RBS final response advises that isnt the case. It says Mr Ns 
application ran into problems because of a link to his business accounts that needed to be 
removed on its systems. 
I know Mr N has other concerns about the information recorded by RBS and feels a fraud 
marker was the root cause. But I havent seen any evidence to support that. And, once RBS 
removed the link in question (albeit several months later) it confirmed Mr Ns application 
could proceed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but Im satisfied RBS has given the correct reason his savings 
account application didnt proceed in its final response. 
Our investigator said RBS shouldve removed the block within two weeks of Mr Ns 
application. And RBS has accepted Mr Ns application shouldnt have been delayed by the 
general problems it experienced during the pandemic. The application was reviewed in June 
2020 and RBS confirmed it could proceed. But by that stage, Mr N had made other 
arrangements for his funds. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve this complaint. Mr N told us he lost out on interest from 
RBS due to the delays. Our investigator asked Mr N to provide evidence to verify his losses, 
but it hasnt been received. Whilst I can see Mr N has provided screen prints from the new 
savings account provider that show the rates of interest he receives, it doesnt confirm when 
he transferred the funds or opened the accounts. Our investigator asked for this information 
during the course of their investigation and also explained why it was required when setting 
out their findings. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but as we havent received any evidence to show RBS actions 
led to a financial loss, Im not telling it to compensate him for lost interest. 
I can see Mr N was given the wrong information during his savings account application and that RBS caused unnecessary delays. RBS has paid Mr N £100 and apologised for how his 
application was handled. Im aware Mr N is dissatisfied with RBS for reasons that go beyond 
his savings account complaint. But Im satisfied the £100 settlement RBS has paid in relation 
to Mr Ns savings account complaint fairly reflects the impact of its errors. As Im satisfied 
RBS has paid a settlement that is fair in all the circumstances of Mr Ns savings account 
complaint, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint because Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman