DRN-1847721
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain that A J Bell Management Limited refused to allow them to benefit 
from its frequent trading discount and subsequently provided them with incorrect information. 
Theyre also unhappy about the problems faced when trying to provide identification, a lack 
of transparency on its website and general lack of service since joining in July 2019.
What happened
Mr L outlined the problems hed encountered uploading identity information and AJ Bells 
subsequent refusal to accept certain documents. He also said its website was not clear 
enough to enable customers to know how many trades had actually been placed in a month. 
He said Mrs L had intended to make 10 trades in order to benefit from the frequent trading 
discount the following month; she would not have made as many trades so otherwise. Once 
the problem became apparent theyd asked AJ Bell to allow them to make an additional 
trade (the following month) which would count towards the previous months total. But it 
refused and failed to address their legitimate concerns. They have spent more than 40 hours 
dealing with this issue which has caused a considerable amount of trouble and upset. 
AJ Bell rejected their complaint. 
It said Mrs L had only placed nine trades in August 2019 while it required 10 to be placed in 
a calendar month to benefit from its reduced frequent dealing fee the following month. It 
didnt agree to reduce the charges.
It said it had been unable to verify Mr Ls identity - from the documents hed tried to upload - 
and this is why it had emailed to explain other ways he could supply the necessary 
documentation. It was right to reject some of the documentation he initially provided as this 
did not meet its requirements.
It acknowledged problems with this part of its site but said alternative methods were fully 
outlined on its website and it had resolved the issue in a reasonable timescale. It admitted 
one member of staff had given inaccurate information on one occasions and offered three 
free trades in lieu of this.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld, saying:
While the evidence indicated that Mrs L intended to place 10 trades in August 2019, 
only 9 actually went ahead
AJ Bell ran an execution-only service meaning the onus was on the customers to 
check, for examples, how many proposed trades had been processed
When a deal is placed its detailed in the transaction history page of the customers 
online account. Also, a contract note is sent to their secure messaging area of the 
website
Further, in this case, following an enquiry from Mrs L on 19 August 2019, an email 
was sent to her personal email account clarifying  that a total of nine trades had been made for the month of August and that one more was required to benefit from the 
discount
He noted that Mrs L said she didnt receive/open the email till the following month as 
she assumed it was a general circular but he didnt believe AJ Bell could be held 
responsible for this
While Mr L said that the terms and conditions didnt require customers to open 
random emails, he noted that in section 14 it stated: It is Your responsibility to 
ensure that You check Your email and the Secure Message area of the Website 
regularly
He acknowledged that AJ Bell provided some incorrect information  via  email on 25 
October  but felt it had addressed this issue and fairly offered three free trades in 
recognition of the oversight
He felt this was a relatively small matter, promptly resolved, and wasnt significant 
enough to support Mr Ls wider concerns about AJ Bells overall service
He noted that AJ Bell had said it would consider Mr Ls suggestion of a trade 
counter, which clearly showed the total number of trades, in order to improve 
transparency
He didnt believe AJ Bell should have allowed Mrs Ls nine trades to benefit from the 
10 trade discount under its Treating Customers Fairly requirements
Overall, he said that AJ Bell was entitled to run its execution-only service along the 
lines it was currently operating
 
Mr L did not agree, and said:
It is ridiculous to blame a customer for a trade count or execution problem when a 
senior member of staff could not provide an accurate trade count when requested, 
and mistakenly counted reinvestments; another member of staff had to triple-check to 
confirm the number of trades. This illustrates a clear lack of transparency in the 
system
Its offer of three free trades in lieu of this error was not sufficient; the investigator 
failed to recognise that this error signified the wider problem with the system
If an employee cannot use its system, how can a new customer be expected to
He also repeatedly referred to the terms and conditions but these do not mention the 
frequent dealing discount
AJ Bell does this deliberately for its commercial benefit
The transaction log does not provide an accurate count with transaction dates mixed 
over several months; also, regular trades are mixed with reinvestments which do not 
count
There is a body of evidence from dissatisfied customers, on various websites, 
indicating AJ Bells site hides the cost of its service and trade fees
Citizens Advice say there should be a pre-signed contract spelling out all the fees, 
without this any contract is not valid; AJ Bell does not do this
Nor does its online site spell out the frequent dealing charges 
Under the Sale of Goods act he should be entitled to a refund
It is not a legal requirement to read every email
Customers should be able to determine how many trades they have made via the 
transaction log; this would be like a standard online basket
Instead, the transaction log hides and conceals information and makes it impossible 
to interpret without individually looking at multiple transactions in contract notes 
spread over the month
The messaging system provides lots of messages I.e. News, updates, dividends, 
cash statements, payments, this scattering of information again adds to the 
transparency problemThere is no simple way of determining how many trades you've done unless you 
write them on a piece of paper, and as a new customer you are not going to assume 
it is necessary
He was told he could use the transaction history to count trades
There is no Frequently Asked Questions section
They both received a Black Friday offer of £4.95 a trade (the frequent dealing 
discount) yet it defended its refusal to apply the discount in their case by referring to 
being fair to other customers. This shows that it simply writes its own rulebook
He will now pursue matters through Trading Standards
He recently tried and failed to execute an order over a five-minute period which 
forced him to execute manually; this demonstrates fundamental problems with AJ 
Bells systems
He was enclosing a copy of its fee structure section including a hidden drop box of 
transfer holding fees; this demonstrates a pattern of behaviour hiding premium fee 
charges, as it costs £5 or £10 to sell but £25 to transfer
So if your shares are down over months you are locked in as you would lose money
Other high street banks and more regulated providers display all fees on the main 
page, whilst this particular instance is legal content, it does demonstrate the 
company are happy to charge premiums and minimise transparency
They are happy to offer the ombudsman access to their account in order to 
understand how the system operates
If you were doing an online shop everything would be displayed in clear quantities, 
with full itemisation, and a final total and no conflicting information. AJ Bells platform 
requires you to sift through a running log where information can come from mixed 
months and with reinvestments (which do not count); so there's no upfront 'trade 
count/total' no 'cost total;' if supermarkets handled data this way they would need a 
new department to deal with discrepancies
As technology may have also affected a trade execution you can't even rely on active 
orders or trading log, so the only way to know whether you have completed 10 trades 
is to literally enter your portfolio every time and check the action (i.e. Purchase or 
Sale), and then write it down on a piece of paper; if you are a new customer you will 
not know how deceptive and untransparent its system is, and based upon the 
responses from complaints team, they are suspicious that the company has abused 
this issue in the past and may do so in the future
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive read Mr L and Mrs L have not raised any new points about the difficulties 
they faced in providing the necessary identity documentation. I do not know if they accepted 
the investigators explanation but I am satisfied he responded fully to this issue and agree 
with his conclusions.
AJ Bell offered a variety of ways of meeting the necessary identity requirements. While there 
appeared to be a problem with one method, they did offer alternatives. I am also satisfied it 
responded promptly and subsequently processed Mr Ls application/documentation 
appropriately and within a reasonable period of time.
When considering the central issue of AJ Bells online system, and the way trades are 
displayed, it is important to reiterate that Mrs L and Mr L chose its execution-only service. 
While the investigator stressed this, and that Mr L does not believe this absolves it of a range of responsibilities, in my view this is a key consideration when assessing this 
complaint.
My role here is to not decide whether AJ Bell might have done things differently, even if this 
might make some matters more convenient or transparent for customers, but whether it is 
entitled to run the service in the way it is doing; or, whether this is fundamentally unfair to 
customers. In this case, whether it clearly did something wrong. By these criteria, I do not 
accept it did do so.
Firstly, I dont accept Mr Ls interpretation of the Sale of Goods Act and its relevance to this 
case. Many businesses now operate online services in which customers sign up 
immediately, and many types of services are not subject to sale or return rights. Crucially, 
my role, while taking note of any legislation, is to decide whether a business is operating 
fairly and reasonably. Ive seen nothing to suggest AJ Bells terms of trade fails to meet 
these requirements. In particular, I dont accept that its terms and conditions need to spell 
out its frequent dealing discount.
Equally, when considering the way it displays, or doesnt display, the trades a customer 
makes each month, my role is to decide whether this is fundamentally unfair. So while I fully 
understand many of the points Mr L makes, and in particular his suggestions about how this 
area could be improved, I am not persuaded AJ Bells current system is unfair. The fact that 
a member of staff mistakenly counted a reinvestment as a new trade was obviously 
unfortunate, and points to the scope for improvement, but doesnt mean that AJ Bell was 
required to display information in a different format.
As AJ Bell explained, even if customers find the Transaction History log insufficient they can 
check the number of Contract Notes they have received to be certain as to how many trades 
(as opposed to reinvestments) they have made in a month. I also do not think it 
unnecessarily onerous for a customer keep a note of how many trades theyve made each 
month if they are hoping to benefit from the frequent dealing discount the following month.
Mr L also argues that AJ Bell deliberately hides or obscures its charges. Having considered 
the ISA charges document it provided and looked on its website myself, I do not agree that 
the charges are in any way hidden. Within two clicks one can see its regular dealing charge 
of £9.95 alongside a clearly-explained reduced charge of £4.95 if a customer has made 10 
or more trades the previous month.
I also agree with the investigator that the business did nothing wrong when sending Mrs L an 
email about the problem, and that it was not required to do more  such as phone her. So 
while I fully understand why she and other customers dont read every email from a business 
given the amount of unsolicited stuff that is sent, that does not mean AJ Bell acted 
incorrectly when emailing her about the issue. It is both understandable and unfortunate that 
she did not read the email immediately (and was therefore unable to make an additional 
trade to meet the frequent dealing requirement), but this was not AJ Bells fault.
Mr L is right to say that AJ Bell writes its own rulebook when referring to its Black Friday 
offer. But I am satisfied that it is fully entitled to decide, as part of its commercial remit, to 
make available special offers (as well as refuse to waive its clearly-outlined fees, as in Mrs 
Ls case). It is not for this service to tell a business how to operate beyond the need to be 
clear, fair and reasonable.
In my experience it is not uncommon for all sorts of online accounts not to work or freeze for 
five minutes or longer. This can be for many reasons include ones own computer, internet 
access or a business own system failing. The latter is something that inevitably occurs on 
occasion so even if I could prove that AJ Bell was responsible for the five-minute incident to which Mr L refers this alone would not be sufficient for me to conclude its systems were not 
fit for purpose. AJ Bell like other comparable businesses offer other ways to trade, by phone 
etc., so a computer failure should not automatically disadvantage a customer (although it will 
undoubtedly inconvenience them).
Finally, my role is to consider each complaint on its merits. One can, understandably, find 
many negative reviews about most businesses online, some with recurring themes, but as 
one cannot possibly assess the merits of these posts it would be wrong to take this 
information into account when assessing an individual complaint.
Overall, I am satisfied that AJ Bells offer of three free trades was adequate compensation 
for its one clear error (giving misleading information by phone on one occasion).
My final decision
For these reasons I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman