DRN-1621221
The complaint
Mr T complains that Real Time Claims Limited (RTC) invoiced him for his successful 
payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint after it had ended its agreement with him. He 
also complains that he is being chased for this fee by a different claims management 
company (CMC).
What happened
Mr T instructed RTC to make claims on his behalf for mis-sold PPI. When he received 
compensation for his successful claims he paid RTC the fees due. 
In June 2019 RTC issued a public notice to say it had chosen to no longer be authorised and 
so was no longer representing its customers. It directed its customers to liaise directly with 
the lenders involved for their claims, or to direct another CMC or approach the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
On 5 July 2019 one of Mr Ts lenders sent him a letter to say that it was now upholding his 
PPI claim. Shortly after this, RTC invoiced Mr T for its success fee. Mr T refused to pay this, 
he explained that RTC had ended its relationship and contract with him and this claim has 
been successful after this point.
RTC said that its June notice was for new customers only, and didnt apply to Mr T. Mr T 
then received regular calls from a different CMC which I will call CMC A chasing him for the 
fee. Mr T felt uncomfortable with this as he was never a customer of CMC A. He brought his 
complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman  a Financial Ombudsman service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He explained that the agreement Mr T originally 
signed only ran until one party withdrew the agreement in writing. And he explained that 
RTC did this in June 2019  when it told its customers it was no longer representing them. 
Our investigator explained this notice didnt mention it was only for new customers, nor was 
it worded in a way that would imply this. And as the lenders investigation and offer 
happened after the agreement had ended, RTC wasnt entitled to its fee.
Our investigator also pointed out that although RTCs terms allow it to transfer the claim to 
another CMC, it didnt follow its terms here. It didnt notify Mr T it was doing so, and so it 
wouldnt be fair for CMC A to be chasing that fee. Our investigator said RTC (and CMC A by 
association) shouldnt be chasing the fee. And he recommended RTC pay £100 
compensation to Mr T for the trouble and upset caused.
RTC didnt respond to the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Is the fee due?
Ive looked at the agreement that Mr T signed with RTC. It says the following:
'The authority is not for a limited period. It is to remain in force until withdrawn in writing 
by me/us'
And I think its clear from the notice that RTC placed on its website in June 2019 that it was 
withdrawing the agreement from that point. Mr T considered that this meant he was no 
longer in a contract with RTC and I agree with him. The notice clearly directs customers to 
pursue the complaints on their own, or instruct another CMC. So I think this implies that any 
agreement covering any claims has ended.
It was after this date that Mr Ts lender wrote directly to him about its decision to 
reinvestigate his claim. And it upheld that claim. As its clear that RTC ended the contract 
between itself and Mr T, I dont think it would be fair to then seek to enforce those contract 
terms. And as Mr Ts relationship with RTC had ended, I dont think it would be fair for it to 
then charge a fee. Particularly as Mr T had been told, by RTC, that he could liaise with the 
lender directly or approach another CMC. He was also told over the telephone that he 
wouldnt have to pay those fees.
RTC has explained that its advisor made a mistake when telling Mr T the fees werent due. 
And it said that the notice was for new customers only. However, the notice explicitly says 
that it was leaving its customers to liaise directly with the lender themselves, or approach 
another CMC. This indicates that it applied to customers that RTC had already assisted. And 
as Ive explained above, I think any agreement that it had with Mr T was terminated in writing 
by this notice. So, in these particular circumstances, I dont think RTC should be chasing Mr 
T for any fees relating to this specific claim.
Being chased by CMC A
Mr T has explained hes had numerous calls from CMC A chasing this fee. RTC says that 
the authority Mr T signed allowed it to use its associate for claim related activities, but I 
disagree.
The letter of authority says that RTCs obligations may be transferred to another claims 
management provider upon written notice. But Ive not seen any such notice was ever given 
to Mr T. And in any event, I dont think its fair for RTC to be charging the fee in this situation 
which means that CMC A  shouldnt pursue Mr T for this fee either.
Trouble and upset
Mr T has been chased for a fee  after being told he didnt owe it  by a CMC that he never 
instructed. I think this wouldve caused him frustration, particularly given his contract with 
RTC had ended. So I agree with our investigator that RTC should pay him some trouble and 
upset. I think £100 is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr T for the frustration caused by 
the calls from CMC A and the conflicting information he was being given.
Putting things right
To put things right, Real Time Claims Limited must:
Waive the fee for this claim and tell CMC A that it cannot chase Mr T for this fee
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for trouble and upset.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Real Time Claims Limited must follow the instructions Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman