DRN-1493698
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) told him that he would have a fee 
waiver on his Premier account if he maintained a balance of £7,500 and recently Lloyds 
have explained that he was not eligible for this fee waiver.
What happened
Mr R says that he was told when he took out his Premier account in 2004 that he would not 
be charged a monthly fee if he maintained a credit balance of £7,500. Recently Mr R 
maintained a balance of over this amount, but was still charged an account fee. He queried 
this with Lloyds and he was told that this was an error and the account fee was refunded.
Some months later, in August 2019, the same thing occurred. But when Mr R queried it with 
Lloyds, it told him that he was no longer able to have a fee waiver on his account. It did 
though refund the account fees for the months when he did maintain a balance of £7,500 
and credited Mr R with an amount representing a further three months of fees. Lloyds also 
credited Mr R with £112 to represent the distress caused by this issue.
 
Mr R was not happy with this, as he wanted the fee waiver to be applied to his account going 
forward, as he says this is what he was promised when he opened the account. He therefore 
referred his complaint to this service for independent assessment.
One of our adjudicators looked into this already. He concluded that he could not ask Lloyds 
to reinstate the fee waiver and that what Lloyds had already done was sufficient.
Mr R did not agree with this and asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance it is unclear if a fee waiver was ever originally applied to Mr Rs account. 
Lloyds have said it does not know if the fee waiver was initially applied to Mr Rs account, 
but in any event, the fee waiver wouldve been removed in 2014. 
From the records I have seen Mr R had a Premier Plus account in 2014. Lloyds made a 
commercial decision in 2014 to remove the option of having a Premier Plus account. As a 
result Lloyds migrated all Premier Plus account holders to a Premier account. As part of this 
migration, Premier Plus account holders lost the option of having a fee waiver. Lloyds was 
entitled to make this change as per the terms and conditions of the account as long as it 
provided notice of such a change. So I am satisfied that Mr R would not have been able to 
have a fee waiver from this time onwards. 
Lloyds cannot demonstrate that it ever informed Mr R that his fee waiver (if he had one 
applied to his account) had been removed. So I need to consider what loss this caused Mr 
R. To do this, I need to look at when Mr R was told that he was not eligible for a fee waiver.
From the calls that I have listened to, the first time Mr R was informed that he did not have a 
fee waiver on his account was in August 2019, during his complaint call. I understand that Mr 
R may have been misinformed prior to this point that he had the option of a fee waiver. But 
at this point, it was clarified that he no longer had the option of a fee waiver. Lloyds has 
refunded all the account fees that Mr R paid prior to this point that he wouldve avoided had 
the fee waiver been applied. 
In addition to this, it credited Mr R with a further three months of fees to give Mr R time to 
look for alternative accounts if he wished to do so. It also has paid Mr R £112 to reflect the 
distress caused by this matter.
If everything had gone correctly, Mr R wouldve been informed prior to his fee waiver being 
removed and this wouldve given him the time to determine if he still wanted to continue with 
the Premier account, or downgrade his account to a fee-free account. Given that Mr R had 
not, prior to this point, ever attempted to use the fee waiver, had he been notified in 2014 
that it had been removed I dont think that he would have downgraded his account and 
wouldve continued to pay the monthly fee.
By refunding Mr R the above, Lloyds has put him in a better position because its meant hes 
been able to have access to the Premier account benefits since 2014, without at times 
having to pay for them. Whereas had everything gone correctly Mr R would have had to pay 
for the account each month since 2014.
So overall I think that what Lloyds has already done to put matters right is sufficient. So I am 
not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman