DRN-3782620
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Evelyn Partners Discretionary Investment Management Limited, 
trading as Tilney Discretionary Investment Management Limited (Tilney), failed to provide 
her with the advisory service she was paying for. She wants it to refund its fees for January 
to September 2021.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her son, who holds power of attorney for his 
mother. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if its been said by Mrs L.
What happened
Mrs L has an Investment Advisory Service agreement with Tilney. Tilney recommended 
suitable asset allocation models, based on Mrs Ls circumstances. Mrs L was also able to 
ask for advice on buying and selling investments which did not form part of the model. Tilney 
needed Mrs Ls instructions before it could trade on her behalf.
Mrs L complains that:
1. Tilney didnt send its usual list of buy and sell recommendations with its January 2021 
report. The report included codes which the advisor couldnt explain, and she didnt 
understand. Tilney suggested its discretionary service might be more appropriate for her, 
but this was subject to a higher charge. Mrs L says Tilney changed its advisory service, 
because the report differed from previous years, but that it didnt issue new terms. 
2. Tilney failed to recommend the sale of two holdings which shed introduced, and which 
were too high risk to be suitable for her. 
3. Tilney failed to provide her with advice from January 2021, when she didnt receive the 
usual investment recommendations. She didnt receive this until September when she 
asked for Tilneys advice. She wants Tilney to refund its fees from January to September 
2021 of £2,050. 
Tilney said its advisory service hadnt changed. It said it issued a review letter in January 
2021, outlining its recommendations and asked Mrs L to contact it. She didnt get in touch to 
request a full review or to ask for specific recommendations. Tilney contacted her again in 
February 2021 asking for instructions for the cash held on the account. Mrs L responded to 
say she wondered if tracker funds might be better for her as she wouldnt need to follow the 
movements of the stock market. Tilney recommended its discretionary service. Mrs L 
phoned Tilney the following month, but it says it didnt respond to her and it apologised.
Tilney accepted it should have advised Mrs L to sell her two share holdings. It apologised 
and offered her £1,495.11, representing the growth she would have seen in her investment if 
the shares had been sold earlier and reinvested in the asset allocation model. It also offered 
her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Tilney 
had provided the agreed advisory service and didnt need to refund its fees. And he thought 
Tilneys offer of compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Tilneys January 2021 report said the portfolio was over-weight in equities but didnt 
provide any recommendations. 
In September 2021, when Mrs L asked for recommendations, Tilney recommended 20% 
of her investments were reallocated. If Tilney had carried out a review and offered 
recommendations in January 2021, as the investigator concluded, it seems unusual that 
such a large reallocation was recommended just eight months later.
Tilney effectively downgraded the service Mrs L received to an advice-on-request 
service, whilst keeping its fees at the same level.
Tilney hasnt compensated her for its admitted omissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advisory service terms and conditions say:
We will offer to carry out an annual review of your Portfolio. (3.7)
And:
We do not make decisions without referring to you. You may accept or reject our advice. All 
decisions on whether to buy, hold or sell any investments are yours. (3.1.4)
In practice, this meant Tilney sent Mrs L its Investment Report on at least an annual basis. 
This included a market commentary, a portfolio analysis, summary and valuation, details of 
asset performance and some explanatory notes. This, together with the covering letter, 
would include information about whether or not the portfolio continued to meet Mrs Ls 
investment objectives and risk profile, and would indicate whether she held any funds on its 
sell or switch list. If the report concluded that the portfolio didnt meet her needs, or if 
there were specific funds that might need to be sold, it was up to Mrs L to contact Tilney to 
discuss this, and to request a review.
Mrs L says that in January 2020 Tilney sent her a list of funds that it recommended she sell 
and buy; but sell and buy recommendations werent included in the January 2021 report. 
I find thats because Mrs L requested a review in January 2020. Shed had a discussion with 
her advisor, provided up to date information about her circumstances, objectives, and 
attitude to risk, and asked for specific investment recommendations.
She didnt ask for a review in January 2021. But Im satisfied Tilney offered a review, as 
required in the terms and conditions.
The portfolio report Mrs L received in January 2021 concluded that, The portfolio continues 
to reflect your investment objectives, risk profile and any other investment requirements we 
have previously agreed, as at the date of this report. This conclusion ignored Mrs Ls two 
direct shareholdings that shed transferred into the portfolio, but I will comment on that later. 
Apart from these two holdings, Tilney concluded the portfolio remained suitable for Mrs L. So 
I dont find it was appropriate for Tilney to provide any investment recommendations. Its covering letter which was sent with the report pointed out that Mrs Ls portfolio contained 
some funds which were on its switch list. And that she should consider changing these 
funds. The letter said:
Based on your Investment Report if you would like to take advice on any of the issues 
highlighted above please do get in touch with me.
Im satisfied this reflects the nature of the service as described in the terms and conditions. It 
was for Mrs L to monitor her investments and seek advice from Tilney as and when she 
wanted to; Tilney would send her an annual report and would highlight anything she ought to 
be aware of; and it would offer to provide a full review, and specific recommendations, if 
Mrs L requested it. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Tilney provided the service that 
Mrs L was paying for, and I dont find theres any obligation on it to refund its fees.
But Ive also thought about whether Tilney should have done more in Mrs Ls particular 
circumstances  it had noted in its records that she was vulnerable, because of her age. 
And, whilst a power of attorney was in place, this wasnt registered with Tilney until 
September 2021. Until then, she continued to deal with her own financial affairs. 
Mrs L didnt respond to the January 2021 report. In February, Tilney contacted her to ask for 
her instructions for investment of the cash held in her account and asked for her instructions 
in respect of a fund which was redeeming. Mrs L replied to say that she generally ignored 
her emails because she didnt know which ones were important. And she asked if she might 
be better to invest in tracker funds, so she didnt have to follow the markets.
The service Mrs L was paying for was not a financial planning service. Tilneys responsibility 
was only to provide advice about the investments held in Mrs Ls advisory portfolio. But I 
think Mrs Ls email put Tilney on notice that Mrs L may have been struggling to keep on top 
of things as far as her advisory portfolio was concerned. In the circumstances, I think Tilney 
acted reasonably. I say this because it suggested she might want to consider its 
discretionary investment service  where all investment decisions would be made by Tilney, 
without the need to refer to Mrs L.
Mrs L didnt reply to Tilneys email. But the following month, she phoned to discuss 
investment of the cash and to discuss investing in tracker funds. Her advisor wasnt 
available, and Tilney says it didnt respond to her phone call. It apologised. But I think it 
would have been upsetting for Mrs L not to have received contact from her advisor following 
her phone message, particularly because she may have been struggling to know what to do 
about her investments. I think Tilney should compensate Mrs L for the distress it caused and 
I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable.
As noted above, Mrs L had transferred two shareholdings into her portfolio. Tilney accepts it 
should have made it clear that it recommended these shareholdings were sold as part of the 
review it carried out in January 2020. It offered to compensate Mrs L by paying her 
£1,495.11 for the lost investment growth, and £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Im satisfied this fairly compensates Mrs L for Tilneys mistake.
I appreciate Mrs l is frustrated that Tilney hasnt paid the sum it offered in its final response 
letter already. But I wouldnt expect it to have paid her because she didnt accept its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Evelyn Partners Discretionary Investment Management Limited 
should:1. Pay Mrs L £1,495.11 for the lost investment growth.
2. Pay Mrs L £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman