DRN-1978066
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close his account and not 
tell him a reason. Mr I would like £1,000 compensation due to the upset and stress this has 
caused him.
What happened
Mr I held a savings account with Nat West. In October 2018, he applied for a joint current 
account with a third party. Nat West declined this application. Nat West decided to end their 
relationship with Mr I by issuing a notice to close his savings account. Nat West gave Mr I 14 
days notice but didnt tell him why they were closing the account.
Mr I went into his local branch with identification and withdrew the total amount in his savings 
account  the account then closed. Mr I said this caused him worry due to carrying a large 
amount of cash around with him. It took Mr I around a month to open another account for his 
savings.
Mr I continued to ask Nat West why theyd made the decision to close his account  but they 
didnt tell him. Mr I faced difficulties and poor service when trying to get in touch with Nat 
West.
The investigator who looked into things thought Mr Is complaint should be upheld. She said 
Nat West were entitled to close Mr Is account, but she thought they should have given him 
60 days notice. And she said due to the stress this situation caused Mr I, and the poor 
service hed received, she thought Nat West should pay him £150 compensation.
Nat West agreed with the investigators recommendation. Mr I didnt  he thought £1,000 
would be more appropriate compensation due to the amount of money held in his savings 
account. The investigator looked at things again, but she still thought £150 was enough in 
the circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained 
further below.
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nat West were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, and subsequently closing, Mr Is account.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons. Im aware Mr I wants to know why Nat 
West decided to close his savings account, but a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the 
customer. Just the same as if Mr I decided to stop banking with Nat West, he wouldnt have 
to explain why. 
However, Nat West can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms 
and conditions of the account. Nat West have relied on the terms and conditions when 
closing Mr Is savings account. Both Nat West and the investigator helpfully explained the 
specific section of the terms (10.2) which Nat West relied on. The terms and conditions 
explain the situations where the bank can close the account immediately, or when they 
should give 60 days notice. Im aware Nat West gave Mr I 14 days notice  and the account 
was closed when Mr I went into branch to withdraw his money. Ive considered Nat Wests 
actions alongside the terms and conditions and like the investigator, I think 60 days notice 
would have been more appropriate. Thats because I dont think Nat West had sufficient 
concerns or evidence to close Mr Is account immediately or with less than 60 days notice 
based on their terms and conditions.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Nat West exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr I banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that Nat 
West has made an unfair decision overall. 
Putting things right
Finding out that you no longer have access to a savings account where you kept your money 
would be extremely frustrating and worrying for most people  Mr I is no exception here. 
However, Im pleased to see Mr I was able to take control of his finances and open another 
savings account with a different bank. 
Ive also thought about the impact Mr I says this situation had on him  especially in regard 
to his mental health. And hes explained the worry he faced when withdrawing a large 
amount of cash in branch and walking away with it  especially because of recent burglaries 
around his area. 
Im also aware Mr I spent a lot of time trying to find out the reasons why Nat West decided to 
do what they did  but Ive explained above why Nat West arent obliged to tell Mr I that.
Overall, Ive found that Nat West should have given Mr I more notice to close his accounts. I 
think this extra time would have allowed Mr I to open an account with another bank 
elsewhere before withdrawing his money in cash. He could have then arranged a direct 
transfer to the other bank which would have avoided the worry he faced.
I appreciate Mr I thinks the amount of money he held in his savings account is relevant to the 
amount of compensation he should receive. But I dont agree. A lesser amount of money 
wouldnt excuse the worry a customer could face if they found themselves in Mr Is position 
and therefore it wouldnt be fair for me to base my decision on this factor alone.
Taking everything into account I consider a compensation payment of £150 would be a 
reasonable amount to reflect the trouble and upset this situation caused Mr I.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Is complaint, National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mr I £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Hayley WestOmbudsman