DRN-2796286
The complaint
Mr B and Mr W are business partners.  They bought a commercial property together using 
their self invested personal pensions (SIPPs) with @SIPP Limited.  They say @SIPP failed 
to carry out adequate checks on the property before making the investment in the SIPP as 
the property has turned out not to be independently connected to the mains electricity and 
water supplies. 
What happened
Although Mr B and W have separate SIPP accounts they applied to @SIPP to invest in the 
property jointly, and they allege failings were made by @SIPP in respect of that joint 
application.  They have complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about those 
alleged failings jointly.  I have therefore dealt with Mr B and Mr Ws complaint as one joint 
complaint. 
In 2017 Mr B and Mr W applied for SIPPs, with the help of a financial adviser, in order to buy 
the property. The property is connected to an adjoining property. It was inspected by a 
surveyor and the conveyancing work was carried out by a law firm.  After the purchase had 
been completed Mr B and Mr W discovered the electricity supply to the property runs 
through the adjoining property with a sub-meter arrangement. Apparently, the owner of the 
adjoining property is not happy to continue with the sub-metering arrangement and has 
switched off the electricity supply to the property.  As I understand it Mr B and Mr W have 
been told it would cost around £15,000 to connect the property to the mains electricity 
supply.    
The information I have seen is less clear about the water supply, but I understand there is a 
similar problem in relation to that also.
Mr B and Mr W say they used solicitors and surveyors recommended by @SIPP and that 
those professionals and @SIPP have failed to make proper checks on the property before 
making the purchase with the funds from their SIPPs.
@SIPP does not think it has been at fault.  It points out that the surveyors valuation report 
said it was written on the assumption the property was connected to the mains electricity and 
water supply. It also says that the solicitors said in its pre-contract report that the property 
was connected to the water and electricity supply and that this was based on the sellers 
answers to standard pre-contract enquiries provided by the sellers solicitors.  It has also 
suggested taking further legal advice on a possible claim against the seller.
One of our investigators considered Mr B and Mr Ws complaint.  She thought @SIPP had 
acted appropriately in the circumstances and that the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr B and Mr W do not agree with the investigator.  They think @SIPP are unfairly siding with 
their panel solicitor to avoid responsibility.  They say the solicitor relied solely on an answer 
from the sellers solicitor in relation to the electricity and water supply and they should have 
done more such as obtaining copies of the relevant suppliers bills to show all was in order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I am 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
As the investigator explained, @SIPP is subject to the Principles for Business in the 
regulators rules.  Those principles include:
2. A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
3. A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
6 A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulator has also issued reports on reviews it carried out on SIPP operators and 
guidance on how they should comply with the above requirements.  I have taken all those 
points into account and having done so I agree with the investigator.  
It is not for me to say where any fault lies as between the seller, the solicitor and/or the 
surveyor.  I only have jurisdiction over @SIPP.  And I agree that @SIPP acted reasonably in 
the circumstances of this case in relying on the reports provided to it by those professional 
firms. I do not consider that it was under an obligation to, for example, audit the 
thoroughness of any checks carried out by the solicitor or surveyor so long as their reports 
did not seem obviously unreasonable, and they did not in this case.  
In all the circumstances I do not consider that @SIPP has treated Mr B and Mr W unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr B and Mr Ws complaint against @SIPP Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman