DRN-1488676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say they werent told by Taylormade Finance Ltd about the costs of a will 
writing package they were sold when undertaking a remortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser from Taylormade Finance on 13 June 2019 as they 
wanted to remortgage and borrow an additional £4,000 for home improvements.
A follow-up visit was arranged for 20 June and at that appointment Mr and Mrs B signed all 
the paperwork. The mortgage completed on 19 July. 
On 25 July a representative from the will writing company visited Mr and Mrs B to go through 
things with them but as he didnt have all the forms with him he posted some of them out 
after the meeting, with Mr and Mrs B receiving them on 27 July.
However, in the meantime, Mr and Mrs B received the surplus funds from the remortgage on 
26 July and contacted Taylormade Finance to query that, as theyd received less than they 
were expecting. They say thats when they found out there was a £1,795 fee for the will 
writing service, and immediately contacted the will writing company to cancel it. They also 
complained to Taylormade Finance.
Taylormade Finance rejected the complaint on 31 July and, unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs B 
referred matters to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said Taylormade Finance should refund the full 
cost of the will writing service to Mr and Mrs B. Taylormade Finance didnt agree and so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B signed a fee agreement form, I have to consider 
that document as part of the wider picture rather than just in isolation. That form was one of 
many signatures Mr and Mrs B provided in that meeting, and theyve said they were just told 
to sign next to each of the crosses (and crosses can be seen on that form where they 
needed to sign).
The letter the adviser sent to Mr and Mrs B on 17 June 2019 in advance of that meeting 
made no mention of any fee for the will writing service. It said the mortgage plan would 
hopefully be including PPT Will with lasting power of Attorney but didnt say there would be 
a separate £1,795 fee for that. There is also no mention of the £1,795 fee in the fact find, 
Advice & Recommendation Notes, Request for provision of a will form or the Terms of 
Business document for the will writing company.
Taylormade Finance has said its adviser called Mrs B on 15 July 2019 and ran through all 
the figures before completion, whereas Mrs B says that didnt happen or she would have 
queried the figures there and then. Unfortunately, Taylormade Finance doesnt record its 
calls, nor is it able to provide proof of a call being made to Mrs B (such as an outgoing calls 
listing). As the two sides have directly opposing views on this, and theres no irrefutable 
evidence of a call being made (such as a call recording, or other independent call log) then 
Ive not placed any weight on this point either way.
Mr and Mrs B say the representative from the will writing company didnt mention the fees 
when he visited them in the evening of 25 July, and it was only when they received the 
surplus funds from the remortgage the following day that they queried why theyd received 
less than they were expecting. As a result, they immediately cancelled the will writing service 
and complained about what had happened.
Taylormade Finance questioned why Mr and Mrs B sat through the will writing appointment, 
but that supports Mr and Mrs Bs argument that they didnt know about the cost. They had 
the appointment with the will writing representative, but when finding out about the separate 
£1,795 cost the next day they immediately cancelled it. That doesnt seem like the actions of 
people that were aware of the cost already, instead it strongly supports Mr and Mrs Bs 
argument that they werent aware of the £1,795 fee.
If Mr and Mrs B had been made aware of  and agreed to  the £1,795 fee on 20 June and 
then again on 15 July, it doesnt seem likely that theyd cancel the will writing package on 
26 July, the day after they went through a long meeting about setting up those wills. It seems 
more likely, based on what happened, that 26 July was the first time they truly became 
aware of the £1,795 fee for the service.
Taylormade Finance has said:
I would like to confirm that we had an FCA visit last year and they were happy with the 
business model we have in place, including an in depth look into our policies. I would also 
like to re-iterate the point once again that our advisers are extremely professional and are 
trained to adhere to our very high standards. I can also confirm that the satisfaction of our 
customers is centric to everything we do, which is why we have thousands of returning 
customers built up over 12 years in business. All our advisers ensure every detail is 
covered with clients prior to asking them to sign anything
I dont doubt any of that, and Im pleased to hear Taylormade Finance has robust 
procedures in place, but even within the most compliant business things can occasionally go 
wrong. If we were simply to take that statement at face value that would mean no complaint 
would ever be upheld against Taylormade Finance irrespective of the individual evidence; 
Im sure it will agree that wouldnt be fair if something had gone wrong.
This is a finely balanced case, and I have weighed everything up very carefully. But on 
balance Im not persuaded the timeline of events  or Mr and Mrs Bs actions  are indicative 
of consumers that were aware of the £1,795 will writing service fee. And if they werent 
aware of it, they couldnt consent to it.
For all the reasons given Im upholding this complaint.Putting things right
I order Taylormade Finance Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs B the full cost of the will writing service.
 
For clarity that is £1,795 plus, as that sum was included in the new mortgage debt, interest 
on it at the mortgage interest rate from the date the mortgage started until the date of 
settlement. 
As that interest is to take into account the loss to Mr and Mrs B of having to pay interest on a 
higher mortgage balance, then tax should not be deducted from that interest payment as it is 
representative of a direct loss Mr and Mrs B have incurred.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Taylormade Finance Ltd to settle it as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman