DRN-3625570
The complaint
Ms Y complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) decision to decline her 
claim for cover under her travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms Y bought a train ticket for a total cost of £18.25, this included £16.60 for the ticket, £1.25 
for travel insurance and a booking fee of 40p. Due to a rail strike on Ms Ys planned date of 
travel, she cancelled her ticket and was refunded £6.60 but £10 was retained for an 
administration fee and she also wasnt refunded the booking fee. Ms Y made a claim for the 
£10.40 but this was declined on the basis that, travel delay caused by strike or industrial 
action that started or was announced before Ms Ys trip was booked, isnt covered under the 
policy. Ms Y provided evidence showing she booked her ticket before the train strike was 
announced. The claim was then reconsidered and again declined, but this time it was on the 
basis that a cancellation due to rail strikes is excluded under the policy. 
Ms Y complained and Great Lakes responded and explained the claim was initially 
incorrectly assessed as it was considered against the wrong section of the policy. They said 
the reassessment was considered against the Cancellation section of the policy and 
correctly declined as the reason for Ms Ys claim isnt listed as one of the circumstances 
covered by the policy. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms Y. She thought that Great Lakes hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining Ms Ys claim. Ms Y disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms Y will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Ys travel insurance policy which sets out the terms and conditions. 
Under a section headed, Train ticket cancellation it sets out a list of circumstances covered 
by the policy. Ive seen Ms Ys first email to Great Lakes which sets out her claim. This says 
the reason for her claim is because of the rail strike. I cant see this situation is covered in 
the list of circumstances covered by the policy. 
Theres a section which is headed What is not covered, and this includes If you do not 
make the insured journey for a reason not covered by this policy and If you are unable to 
embark on the insured journey or the insured journey does not take place due to strike or 
industrial action. Given that Ms Ys reason for cancelling her ticket was due to the rail strike, 
and this isnt covered by the policy, I cant say Great Lakes have acted unfairly in declining 
the claim. 
I do acknowledge Ms Y feels very strongly that Great Lakes are being unfair and she also 
points out that they changed their stance after she was able to evidence she booked her 
ticket before the rail strike was announced. I agree this was the case and Great Lakes 
accept they initially assessed the claim against the wrong section of the policy. But, I can 
see this was promptly rectified and the claim, when reassessed, was against the correct 
section of the policy. I understand Ms Y feels this was Great Lakes trying to find any reason 
not to pay, but I dont believe thats the case. I say this because the exclusion Great Lakes 
are relying on is within the policys terms and conditions.
 
I note Ms Y says it wasnt practical for her to take the train knowing there was a strike 
preventing her from reaching her destination. I do acknowledge this and I do understand why 
alternative transport after the train may not have been feasible, but I cant say Great Lakes 
have applied their policy unfairly to Ms Ys claim. 
I can see Ms Y has raised a separate reason for cancelling her ticket which she feels should 
be covered under the policy. Ms Y says wind caused her bedroom window to break so she 
had to make herself available for repairs to be carried out. I cant see Great Lakes have 
considered this under the policy terms and conditions. So, I think its fair for them to be given 
an opportunity to consider this reason before our service looks into this.   
I understand Ms Y will be disappointed, and I acknowledge her reasons for why she believes 
Great Lakes have declined her claim unfairly. I wish to reassure Ms Y Ive read and 
considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman