DRN-2562522
The complaint
Miss M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Miss M took out in 1999. It was
sold to her during an interaction in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss M says she was told to sign the form by the sales adviser and that she didnt consent to 
taking the policy out. AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was 
optional. And it has provided a copy of Miss Ms application form. The form has a section for 
the PPI and applicants can sign to opt for the policy in this section if they wish to take it out. 
This section of the form has been signed by Miss M. And I note Miss M has signed the 
overall credit agreement, so if there was anything on the form she wasnt sure about or 
hadnt agreed to, she would have had the opportunity to question it at the time. 
The form doesnt clearly state that the policy is optional so in fairness to Miss M, Ive also 
looked at everything we know about how AXA normally sold PPI around that time. And 
based on what we know about such sales, customers were usually asked to choose whether 
they wanted PPI. Theres nothing to suggest AXA didnt follow its normal procedures. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely that Miss M was given a choice and she chose to buy the 
policy, even if she doesnt remember this now, many years later. 
AXA says it wasnt an advised sale. In our experience, AXA didnt normally provide personal 
recommendations for these policies. And nothing in what Miss M has said suggests anything 
different happened here. So, AXA didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Miss M says she 
wouldnt have got sick pay benefits from her employer but has said she had savings at the 
time that she could have used to make her repayments. But having the policy would have 
meant any savings she had could have been left intact or used for their intended purposes. 
So, I think the PPI would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
I also havent seen anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable. All of this means I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Miss M has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
I appreciate this outcome is likely to disappoint Miss M. Shes put time and effort into her 
complaint and Im sorry to hear of her current health issues. Ive thought carefully about 
everything Miss M has said, but for the reasons explained above these points dont change 
my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman