DRN-3113133
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) during a call he had with it on 17 March 2021.
What happened
Mr H had a call with Aviva on 17 March 2021 during which he tried to establish if he could 
surrender an investment he held over the phone.
At the end of this call M H asked for a complaint about how the call had been handled be 
logged, and for the information he was trying to obtain be sent to him in writing.
On 31 March 2021 Mr H referred his complaint to our service for investigation.
On 15 September 2021 Aviva sent our service a recording of the call that took place on 
17 March 2021 and to say that although it accepted our view to the contrary, it believed this 
complaint shouldnt be considered independently of another complaint from Mr H being 
considered by us.
On 17 September 2021 Aviva confirmed to our service that despite Mr H asking for 
information about surrendering investments over the phone be sent to him in writing, and this 
fact being noted in its internal records, this hadnt been actioned.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who having listened to the 
supplied call recording (amongst other things), came to the view that it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
It was entirely appropriate for our service to consider this complaint separate from the 
complaint Mr H had raised about the service he had received during calls that took 
place on 15 and 17 February 2021.
On more than one occasion Avivas representative muted their end of the call 
unnecessarily, sighed, showed their frustration, spoke over Mr H and failed to listen 
to what he had said. Also, on one occasion, they laughed at an answer provided by 
Mr H in response to a question that they had asked.
Aviva should pay Mr H £150 in compensation for the way it handled the call of 
17 March 2021 (and the unnecessary frustration and distress this caused) and for its 
failure to send Mr H, in writing, information about surrendering investments over the 
phone. 
Aviva should send Mr H (in writing) information about surrendering investments over 
the phone.
Aviva didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary it said:
Although it doesnt agree, it accepts that our service has decided to consider this 
complaint sperate from another complaint brought by Mr H to our service, and still 
under consideration by us, in respect of the same journey to surrender.
The representative only muted their end of the call to stop any allegations from Mr H 
of them interrupting him.
Although the representative sighed on more than one occasion they acted 
professionally throughout the call and were only trying to be helpful.
The representative laughing at an answer provided by Mr H in response to a question 
that they had asked was simply a human response.
The representative acted correctly in asking Mr H to expand/elaborate on what he 
was exactly unhappy about when he asked for a complaint to be logged.
Mr H is aware, or should be aware, of the process for surrendering investments over 
the phone. 
The investigator considered Avivas response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, and for the sake of completeness, I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that 
its entirely appropriate for us to consider Mr Hs complaint about the service he received 
during a call with Aviva on 17 March 2021 (this compliant) separate from his complaint about 
the service he received during calls with Aviva on 15 and 17 February 2021.
Now I hope Aviva dont take this as a discourtesy. But given that both parties are aware of 
what was said during the call, how both it and Mr H conducted themselves and the details 
the investigator went into about the content of the call in her view, I see no good reason to 
comment on each and every aspect of the call in this decision.
But I can confirm that having listened to the recording of the call I find myself in full 
agreement with the investigators findings and conclusion. In my view, and despite what 
Aviva has said to the contrary, Im satisfied that the representative could and should have 
been more professional in how they handled things and how they handled things caused 
Mr H both frustration and distress. 
I also find that Mr Hs request for information in writing about surrendering investments over 
the phone was a reasonable one and this request could and should have been actioned by 
Aviva shortly after 17 March 2021, even if Aviva holds the view Mr H should already be 
aware of its process in this respect. 
I appreciate that Aviva is likely to disagree. But taking everything into account I find that for 
its poor handling of the call of 17 March 2021, and for its failure to send information in writing 
about surrendering investments over the phone, at least in a timely manner, Aviva should 
have to pay Mr H £150. And if it hasnt already done so, Aviva should now send Mr H 
information in writing about surrendering investments with it over the phone.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must:
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the poor service it provided during the call of 
17 March 2021 and for failing to send Mr H (in writing) information about surrendering 
investments over the phone.
Send Mr H (in writing) information about surrendering investments over the phone 
within 28 days of this final decision being accepted by Mr H if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman