DRN-3533922
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has 
dealt with their claim.
Mr and Mrs C have a representative but for simplicity, I will refer to all submissions by the 
representative as if they were made by Mr and Mrs C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. 
Whist on holiday abroad, their villa was burgled. They made a claim which URV accepted 
and paid. But Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the settlement amount. So they complained 
to URV but unhappy with its response, referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that URV had settled the claim for the 
correct amounts in line with the policy terms and conditions. But she thought it should pay 
£100 compensation for the frustration Mr and Mrs C felt as a result of service issues. 
URV agreed but Mr and Mrs C didnt. In summary, they said:
The website link for the wear and tear scale was broken. URV applied the 
depreciation scale in error - the sunglasses have not depreciated in value. 
They would like to see that the website worked. They had no idea about the wear 
and tear scale which meant that some of their items effectively werent covered. 
URV hasnt treated them fairly given their age. They did not know there was a 
members area to log into. And were shocked about the sale of such a product to 
someone in their 80s. 
Their items were kept bagged and the baggage cover is £750. 
Give the premiums paid over the years and the items they presumed were covered, 
this product shouldnt have been sold to them in this way. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly, 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions, which make up the contract of insurance between Mr and 
Mrs C and URV, set out the limits of cover in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances as follows:
Baggage  up to £750 
Single article  up to £100
Valuables in total - £100 
Cash  up to £150
For baggage claims, the policy covers the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the accidental 
loss or, theft of or damage to baggage. The amount payable will be less a deduction 
for wear, tear and depreciation (loss of value), or we may at our option replace, 
reinstate or repair the lost or damaged baggage. You can find full details of the wear 
and tear scale published on the Travel Claims Facilities website
The policy confirms the maximum URV we will pay is:
Up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the total for all valuables.
Valuables is defined in the policy as follows:
jewellery; watches, furs, leather articles; precious stones and articles made of or 
containing gold, silver or other precious metals.
URV paid £100 per person for valuables which included Mr Cs watch and pen and Mrs Cs 
jewellery. 
For Mr Cs sunglasses and shoes, URV applied a wear and tear deduction, in line with its 
wear and tear scale.
Based on the above, Im satisfied URV correctly paid the claim for Mr and Mrs Cs items in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. This includes the maximum payment for all 
valuables and deductions for the remainder of the items. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the link within the terms and conditions doesnt lead to the wear 
and tear scale. And it isnt suitable or accessible. They believe the policy was mis-sold as it 
wasnt suitable based on the limits applied to the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs C were sent the full policy documentation following the non-advised sales 
call, I dont think the policy was mis-sold as they received information regarding the limits for 
each section. The policy is clear that a deduction will be made for wear, tear and 
depreciation. 
Although Mr and Mrs C say the scale isnt accessible, there is no evidence that they tried to 
access it before they needed to claim or that this was a key factor in buying the policy. Mr 
and Mrs C say they presumed their items were covered and given the amount of premiums 
paid over the number of years, they dont think URV has treated them fairly. They say the 
policy shouldnt have been sold to them in the way that it was. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs C have said very carefully but I dont think I can hold URV 
responsible for the level of cover Mr and Mrs C had. URV provided a quote for a policy which 
Mr and Mrs C asked for. And the adviser confirmed the limits and referred to the full policy 
documents. There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs C asked specifically about any items they 
wished to insure. So I dont think URV could reasonably have done anything more to assist 
Mr and Mrs C in selecting a policy. Customer service issues
Our investigator recommended £100 compensation for the following errors made by URV:
URV incorrectly referred to a pendant rather than a pen and the value of some items. 
But it apologised and paid the correct settlement in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs C provided authority for their son to act on their behalf but URV 
continued to write to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mrs Cs claim settlement was sent to Mr C although she had completed a claim form 
with her bank account details. 
Taking the above errors and shortfalls into account, they werent ongoing issues and didnt 
have a lasting effect. 
Overall, I think URV has applied the policy terms and conditions in relation to limits fairly. But 
the customer service problems caused some frustration and disappointment for which £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr and Mrs C a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman