DRN-1124395
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) hasnt settled a 
claim they made on their contents insurance policy in the way theyd like. 
What happened
Mr H lost a necklace. So he made a claim on his contents insurance policy. Lloyds accepted 
the claim. It said a retailer (which Ill call G) could replace the necklace. Mr and Mrs H 
werent happy with the replacement G suggested and said it wasnt like-for-like. So Lloyds 
said Mr and Mrs H could have a Gem card to settle the claim instead. But settling the claim 
in this way would take into account the supplier discount Lloyds would get if the necklace 
was replaced through G.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Lloyds offer. They found a jeweller which gave them a 
quote for an exact replacement of the necklace. The quote was a lot more than the amount 
of the Gem card theyd been offered. So Lloyds offered them cash to get the necklace 
replaced through their own jeweller. But again, it limited the cash settlement offer to what it 
would cost it to get the necklace replaced through G. 
Mr and Mrs H were still unhappy with how Lloyds proposed to settle their claim and 
complained. They wanted Lloyds to pay them a cash settlement equal to the cost of their 
jeweller replacing the necklace. Lloyds paid them £25 as compensation to recognise it had 
taken longer than the regulators timescales to look into their complaint. But it said itd 
handled their claim fairly.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She thought Lloyds had 
offered to settle their claim fairly. She considered Lloyds had offered to settle the claim in 
line with its terms and conditions and the valuation Mr and Mrs H had sent it. She felt photos 
showed the replacement necklace G had offered was an equivalent match for the one Mr H 
had lost. And she thought Lloyds was entitled to limit any cash settlement to what it would 
cost it to replace the necklace through G.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the investigators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint. They also feel Lloyds offered poor service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds 
has offered to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear the necklace was important to Mr and Mrs H and that they feel strongly about their 
claim. I can understand why theyd like Lloyds to pay them a cash settlement for the amount 
their jeweller quoted to replace the necklace.But usually, an insurer can choose how it wants to settle claims.  And most insurers will 
explain how they do so in their policy terms. So in deciding whether or not an insurer has 
settled a claim fairly and reasonably, I need to carefully consider what the policy says. And 
whether or not I think the insurer has dealt with a claim fairly and reasonably and in line with 
its policy.
So Ive firstly looked at what Mr and Mrs Hs contents policy says. The relevant part is called 
How we settle claims under your Contents covers and it says:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts available.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
 
In Mr and Mrs Hs case, this meant Lloyds could choose to settle their claim through 
replacing the necklace or paying the cost of replacement, less any discounts available. 
First, Lloyds asked G to replace the necklace based on a valuation Mr and Mrs H provided. 
This valuation included the value and length of the necklace. I think this was a fair thing to 
do. After all, the valuation had been produced by a jewellery expert whod had the chance to 
inspect the necklace. And whod had the chance to check the measurements and the value 
of the necklace.
Mr and Mrs H had some queries about the length of the chain, suggesting it should be a few 
inches longer. But I think it was reasonable for G to base its specification on the valuation. 
Ive also seen that Mrs H told Lloyds initially that the length of the chain was the length given 
in the valuation. Lloyds told Mr and Mrs H they could have a longer chain if they wanted, but 
theyd need to pay extra for it. Again, I think this was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the replacement necklace G suggested. They thought it wasnt 
like for like and that the component parts of it didnt match. Ive thought carefully about this, 
because Id expect Lloyds to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they were in before the claim, 
or at least as close to it as possible. So Id expect the necklace to either be like for like, or as 
close a match as possible.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence on this point. Ive taken into account the photos and 
specifications of the lost necklace, together with the photos and specification of the proposed 
replacement.  Based on everything Ive seen, it seems to me as if the replacement was a 
suitable match for the lost necklace. And I havent seen enough expert evidence to persuade 
me, on balance, that it wasnt. So overall, I think Lloyds offer of replacement through G was 
a fair one and wouldve placed Mr H in much the position hed have been in before the loss.
Given Mr and Mrs Hs unhappiness with the suggested replacement, Lloyds decided to offer 
them either a Gem card  a voucher towards the cost of replacing the necklace or a cash 
settlement. The value of these suggested settlement options was about 40% less than the 
value of the necklace given on the valuation.
The policy allows Lloyds to choose to settle through cash or a money payment  in this case, 
a Gem card. Lloyds first choice for settlement had been to replace the necklace and it 
seems the replacement wouldve been of an equivalent value to the lost necklace. 
But Lloyds wouldve been able to take advantage of the relationship it has with G if Mr and 
Mrs H had accepted the replacement. This includes discounts Lloyds could get through G which might not be available to consumers through jewellery shops on the high street.  It 
seems this was the case here and that Lloyds couldve replaced Mr Hs necklace for the sum 
it offered Mr and Mrs H either as a Gem card or as a cash settlement, through its supplier 
discount.
The policy makes it clear that Lloyds will deduct the cost of any available discounts from 
cash settlements. So I think it was reasonable for it to do so here. I think Lloyds had made a 
fair offer to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim at the outset and had offered to put them in the 
effective position they were in before the loss happened. As Mr and Mrs H chose not to take 
up this option, I think it was open to Lloyds to offer cash settlement, but only at the cost it 
wouldve incurred if theyd accepted the replacement. This means I wont be asking Lloyds to 
increase its cash settlement offer.
It seems that Mr and Mrs H chose to settle the claim through the Gem card. Again, as I think 
Lloyds offered to settle the claim reasonably, I wont be telling Lloyds to pay anything more 
onto the card. 
Mr and Mrs H have raised concerns about the service they got from Lloyds. Lloyds accepts it 
didnt respond to their complaint as quickly as it shouldve done and paid compensation for 
this. I note they havent made a complaint to Lloyds about its service as part of this 
complaint, although they did comment on Gs retail staff who were separate to Lloyds. Its 
open to them to complain to Lloyds about its service if they want to.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman