DRN-3020763
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice he received from Able Financial Ltd (AF) to switch his ex-
employers group personal pension policy (GPP) into his existing personal pension plan in 
2017.
What happened
Mr J sought advice from AF in 2017. He had recently changed employers and sought advice 
on his pensions. The fact find said he was looking to tidy up his pensions. He was advised 
to move his GPP to his existing personal pension.
Mr J queries whether he should have switched and consolidated pensions several times 
over the years. Given the advice charges he paid, he thinks he might have been better off 
staying where he was. Other advice points are covered in separate complaints. This decision 
deals with the advice given to him in 2017.
Our investigator thought the advice to move his GPP into his existing personal pension 
wasnt suitable. Mr J paid an initial advice fee of 3% of the transfer value and the plan 
charges were 0.38%, compared to 0.29% in his GPP. In addition Mr J was paying an 
ongoing advice charge of 0.5%, which increased overall charges from 0.29% in his GPP to 
0.88%. She thought the GPP was suitable for Mr J and cheaper than the new plan. She also 
didnt think he had a particular need for ongoing advice on that plan, given it had a lifestyle 
strategy option which meant Mr J funds could have moved to lower risk funds nearer to 
retirement. She asked AF to compare the plan value of Mr Js GPP if he had not switched 
with Mr Js current pension and if there was a loss to pay him the difference.
AF disagreed that the advice had been unsuitable. They said Mr J wanted to consolidate his 
pensions. He had changed his employers pensions to his personal pensions every time he 
changed employers. He also wanted ongoing advice on all his pensions and the suitability 
report and illustrations clearly pointed out that charges overall where higher after the switch. 
However, they say Mr J thought the advantages of having ongoing advice and consolidating 
the pensions outweighed the additional cost.
Nevertheless AF proceeded with the loss calculations. These showed that Mr Js current 
plan had outperformed Mr Js GPP since 2017. Even including additional charges, Mr J had 
not incurred a loss by switching.
Mr J considered the calculations but asked for an ombudsman to review them, so the 
complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence available I dont think AF needs to pay Mr J any 
compensation.
First of all Im not persuaded the advice given was unsuitable. Its true that by switching Mr J 
was paying higher charges. However, this was clearly set out to him. The suitability report 
made it clear that on charges alone his retirement benefits would be less. The personal 
pension had to outperform the GPP by 0.72% a year to make up for additional charges (this 
included the initial advice fee). The main difference in charges was because Mr J was paying 
for ongoing advice. This was an additional service which based on the suitability report was 
something he felt was beneficial and worth the extra cost. I can see he also had agreed to 
ongoing advice fees on other investments, so paying this fee meant any financial advice 
given in future would include all his personal pensions.
I appreciate it can be argued that ongoing advice wasnt absolutely necessary. However, 
given that Mr J took an active interest in his financial affairs and regularly sought advice, I 
think its plausible he made the choice to pay extra for an additional service which included 
his recently paid up GPP. 
In any event, even if I agreed that Mr J was misadvised here, Im satisfied he didnt suffer a 
loss by switching. AF provided their calculations which compared the fund Mr J was invested 
in within the GPP since 2017 with the performance of his personal pension for the same time 
period. The calculations took into account that Mr J paid an initial fee and ongoing advice 
charges as well as slightly higher product charges. Whereas if he had not switched, he 
would have only paid the product charges of 0.29%, no ongoing advice charges and a 
reduced initial fee of £525. Ive reviewed the calculations and I think they are correct and fair. 
Mr Js personal pensions better performance outweighed the additional charges he paid.
So Mr J hasnt lost out by the advice to switch.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman