DRN-1937126
The complaint
Mr M complains Handepay Ltd (Handepay) mis-sold him a card payment terminal for his 
business.
What happened
Mr M says he believed he had agreed for Handepay to supply him with a card payment 
terminal that would allow stock tracking, along with printed receipts to show the item 
purchased by the customer. Mr M also says the rate charged by Handepay wasnt what he 
believed was agreed, he never signed any form of agreement with them and was misled by 
the salesperson. Mr M now wishes to cancel the agreement without any further charges. 
Handepay says their salesperson explained the functionality of the card payment terminal 
and on installation carried out a test on the machine with Mr M present. Handepay says the 
agreement was signed electronically by Mr M and the rates chargeable for the terminal were 
provided to Mr M by way of email. Handepay believe they havent mis-sold the card terminal 
to Mr M and if he wishes to cancel the agreement, he will have to pay a settlement to the 
leasing company for early termination of contract.  
Mr M wasnt happy with Handepays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. The 
investigator felt based on the available evidence, Handepay didnt provide EPOS systems 
and therefore felt it unlikely they would offer a service they couldnt provide to Mr M. The 
investigator says Handepay have provided details of the rates charged and these would 
have been sent to Mr Ms email address along with a copy of the contract to sign 
electronically - no other evidence could be provided by Mr M to show anything other than 
this was agreed. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating and upsetting for Mr M to find the card terminal he 
had taken with Handepay didnt provide him with the features he believed it did  namely 
printed receipts with details of the item sold and a stock tracking facility. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Handepay had misled Mr M when 
providing him with the card payment terminal facility. 
What happened here was Mr M took out a card payment terminal with Handepay knowns as 
a SPg7 Wi-Fi IP only, card payment terminal. Mr M says after installation he realised it didnt 
provide him with features, he was told it had, namely a stock control facility and customer 
printed receipts detailing the item purchased. Furthermore, Mr M says the rate of 2.7% 
chargeable isnt what was agreed with Handepay. Handepay says the salesperson went 
over the details of the card payment terminal with Mr M and carried out a receipt test at his 
premises to show how it worked. Handepay have also said Mr M was sent the details of the 
charges to Mr Ms email address, so he would have been aware of these.
Mr M has gone on to say he never signed any agreement with Handepay and the signatures 
they have shown arent his. Handepay says the agreement would have been signed 
electronically, so the signatures wouldnt be identical. They say the agreement was sent by 
email to Mr M to his own personal IP address.
When looking at this complaint I have impartially, relied on the weight of evidence provided. I 
say this because much of the dispute is over what was said, during the initial discussions 
regarding the equipment and its functionality, and at the time the card payment terminal was 
installed.  What I have seen is a signed agreement for the card payment terminal and direct 
debit mandate and while Mr M maintains this doesnt match his signature, this would have 
been signed electronically and not expected to be identical to his normal signature. On 
balance, I cant see anything to suggest this wasnt the case or why Handepay would wish to 
falsify Mr Ms signature at this time, before there were any disagreements over its 
functionality. I say this, because the card payment terminal was installed some weeks after 
the agreement was signed and if Mr M hadnt signed the agreement, Handepay were 
unlikely to have gone ahead with its installation.
Mr M says the salesperson had told him the card payment terminal would be able to print 
receipts detailing the item purchased and allow him to track his stock and this is a key part of 
Mr Ms complaint. While it seems likely that there has been a misunderstanding, although Mr 
M may not agree, it is difficult to support his view, that a salesperson from Handepay offered 
these features  to him, when none of the range of card payment terminals they offer, provide 
EPOS systems linked to a computer terminal to enable this. Without any supporting 
evidence to the contrary I am satisfied, on balance, this would have been explained to Mr M 
at the time the card payment terminal functionally was discussed with the salesperson and 
subsequently during the installation of the equipment. 
Mr M also suggests that the rate charged by Handepay is more than he had agreed with 
them but without offering any evidence or explanation as to what he believes it should have 
been. From the information I have seen there is no evidence from Mr M to show any other 
rates were agreed or discussed with Handepay or the acquirer, so I cant say they have 
charged a higher rate than they should have here. There is a cost for Mr M to terminate this 
agreement early, as detailed in the hire agreement and this would be subject to a minimum 
period of the 48 months hire, with the card payment terminal equipment provider -  any 
further discussion Mr M may wish to have regarding this, would need to be with that provider 
and not Handepay. 
So, it follows, I am satisfied there is no material evidence to support Handepay mis-sold the 
card payment terminal to Mr M, and while he will be disappointed with my decision, I wont 
be asking anymore of them here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman