DRN-3685019
The complaint
Mr B complains about difficulties logging into his account with National Savings and 
Investments. He worried hell be locked out and asks that it provides suitable options in case 
this happens.
What happened
Mr B is unhappy about NS&Is security process when he logs into his online account. He 
says the main issues are:
In his experience, NS&Is call back system using an automated call rarely works. He 
says this has been a problem for several years. Mr B says he spoke to someone at NS&I 
that acknowledged this is a widespread problem. When the call back system doesn't 
work, he gets locked out of his account.
NS&Is system doesnt recognise the answers to his security questions even though 
theyre correct. This also leads to him being locked out of his account.
If he fails security password re-set more than a few times hell be locked out of his 
account and unable to regain access without a new temporary password sent by post. 
Mr B lives overseas, and says the local postal service isnt reliable. He says he asked for 
an alternative (such as those used by other financial institutions) but NS&I refused.
Mr B is worried hell be left locked out of his accounts without access to his funds. He says 
thats not acceptable or appropriate.
Our investigator said while Mr B had experienced problems he was able to access his online 
account. While the only way to get a new password is by post, Mr B would have to fail 
security a number of times before this would be necessary. Our investigator said this hadnt 
yet happened, which suggested the steps in place had worked for Mr B so far. Our 
investigator said she couldnt fairly require NS&I to provide other options to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said there was no solution if he was locked out of his account. He said 
this would mean hed be unable to access his account and NS&I could keep his money 
forever. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is concerned that he could be locked out of his online account, such that the only way 
for him to regain access is for NS&I to send a new password by post. He says his local 
postal service is unreliable. He says NS&I should have other options available for overseas 
customers, to provide them with a safe and reliable system.
NS&I is entitled to make a commercial decision about its processes. It doesnt explain these 
processes in detail to customers, and it doesnt have to. Mr B will appreciate that making 
public information about how security and other internal processes work could potentially 
assist fraudsters. Accordingly, I dont intend to set out all of the information NS&I gave us 
about its processes. 
Mr B says the regulator shouldnt allow NS&I to operate this way. I should say that this 
service isnt a regulator and we dont have the powers of a regulator. I cant fairly require 
NS&I to change its processes. What I can do is consider whether NS&I treated Mr B fairly. 
In doing so, I must be fair to both parties. So I should say here that NS&I has said its 
systems worked as expected when Mr B tried to access his account. It says the problems 
Mr B experienced with the call back system could be due to the overseas telephone system. 
And it says the answers Mr B gave to its security questions didnt always match its records. 
While Mr B experienced some difficulty with NS&Is security process, he was able to log in 
and access his accounts. Mr Bs concern is that if he has further problems logging in and the 
call back system didnt work he could, after a number of failed attempts, find himself locked 
out. In such circumstances, hed only be able to regain access by using a temporary 
password sent by post.
NS&I says there are a number of steps before Mr B would reach this point. It says if Mr B 
has problems he should contact it rather than make repeated attempts to log in. 
NS&I has a process to assist customers who are locked out of their accounts. Mr B is 
concerned this wouldnt work for him due to the postal service where he lives being 
unreliable. While NS&I offers an additional option to customers living in the UK it doesnt 
offer this to customers overseas, and I cant fairly require it to do so. I cant fairly require 
NS&I to offer Mr B a different process or options to those available to other customers simply 
because hes concerned about something that might (or might not) happen in the future. 
Overall, I dont think NS&I has treated Mr B unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to require it to take any further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman