DRN-4260573
Complaint
Ms N has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Ms N with a loan for £2,000.00 in March 2016. The loan 
had an APR of 120.8% and a 24-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid 
of £4,212.72, which included interest, fees and charges of £2,212.72, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of £175.53. This loan was settled early with some of the proceeds 
from loan 2.
Everyday Loans then provided Ms N with a second loan for £3,000.00 in October 2017. 
£951.36 of the proceeds from this loan went towards settling the outstanding balance on 
loan 1. The loan had an APR of 102.9% and a 36-month term. This meant that the total 
amount to be repaid of £7,348.68, which included interest, fees and charges of £4,348.68, 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £204.13. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ns complaint and she thought Everyday Loans ought 
to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms N with either of these loans. So she 
thought that Ms Ns complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ns complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out reasonable checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms N could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before both loans were provided. The results of which showed that Ms N was severely 
indebted and had a history of taking out payday and other high-cost lending. Furthermore, a 
significant proportion of her monthly income was going towards credit repayments. And she 
also got into difficulties with a hire-purchase agreement and had other debts passed to debt 
collection agencies after having been provided with loan 1.
Everyday Loans has argued that Ms Ns bank statements didnt show that she wasnt using 
an overdraft. But I dont see that this changes all of the other difficulties Ms N had with credit 
or the fact that Everyday Loans would have been aware of this as a result of the credit 
search. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms N has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time of these loans. And while its possible Ms Ns financial position 
wasnt as a result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Ns version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Ns existing financial position meant that she was 
always unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that, bearing in mind everything, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt 
have provided these loans to Ms N. As Everyday Loans provided Ms N with these loans, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms N lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms N
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms N by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms N paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms N to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Ns credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman