DRN-2189331
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the amount Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd offered as a cash settlement for 
his phone. 
What happened
Mr J has mobile phone insurance with Bastion. In April last year his phone developed a 
number of faults and he made a claim on his policy. This was initially turned down but 
following a complaint to us Bastion agreed to reconsider the claim. It subsequently offered 
Mr J a total of £330 for his phone. Mr J didnt think this was enough and said his own online 
research suggested a higher amount should be offered. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the evidence Bastion provided in support of its valuation 
showed it had reached a fair value; she noted its prices were from an auction site and 
appeared to reflect the advertised rather than sold prices. Equally she didnt think the 
information provided by Mr J was necessarily a fair reflection of the market price at the time. 
Looking at the range of valuations provided she thought Mr J should receive £395 for his 
phone plus 8% interest on that amount from the date the claim should have been paid. 
Mr J accepted her view. Bastion didnt agree. It thought it was reasonable to use prices 
found on auction sites to assess the second hand value of a phone. And the prices Mr J had 
found were for refurbished phones which its policy doesnt say it will provide. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms of Mr Js policy. I can see these say that in the event of 
breakdown if your gadget cannot be repaired we will replace it. And it goes on to explain 
this policy does not provide a replacement as new gadget. If your gadget cannot be 
replaced with an identical item of the same age and condition, we will replace it with one of 
comparable specification or the equivalent value, considering the age and condition of the 
original item.  
I think its clear from that Mr J wouldnt receive a new phone (or the value of that) in 
settlement of his claim. But if a cash settlement is to be provided then it needs to enable him 
to purchase an equivalent phone taking into account the age and condition of his insured 
phone. In this case I understand Mr J purchased his phone in October 2017 and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it wasnt otherwise in good condition at the time it stopped working. 
I dont think its unreasonable in principle for Bastion to use auction sites as a starting point 
to establish the value of a phone. But it should be able to evidence the amount offered would 
enable Mr J to purchase an equivalent phone in good condition, without difficulty, and from a 
choice of reputable sellers.
Ive looked at the information Bastion has supplied in support of its valuation. This is from 
only one auction site and doesnt contain much information as to the condition or age of the 
phones. There are some photographs but they only provide limited information as to their 
condition. There isnt any information about who the seller is (or their rating and history on 
the site). And it does appear the quoted prices are what the phones were advertised for sale 
at  not what they actually sold for at auction. I appreciate Bastion did offer a figure higher 
than the average of the prices it found but Im also mindful of the fact there appear to be 
equivalent phones which recently sold for that price on the same auction site. I think it would 
be reasonable to expect a phone to have depreciated in that period. And so looking at all the 
evidence Im not satisfied Bastion has shown it offered a fair valuation in this case. 
However, I also have some reservations about the evidence Mr J provided in support of his 
valuation. I note all of these phones do appear to be refurbished models. That isnt 
something his policy says will be provided in settlement of a claim. 
And the passage of time does make it difficult to now establish what the equivalent value of 
Mr Js phone was at the point his claim was made. Taking all of that into account I agree it 
would be fair for Bastion to settle the claim by paying Mr J £395 which appears a reasonable 
mid-point between the different valuations. I also think Mr J should receive interest at 8% on 
that amount from when we said the claim should have been accepted (24 July 2019) until 
the date its paid.    
If Bastion considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November.
 
James Park
Ombudsman