DRN-3680442
The complaint
Miss M complains about the support she has received from Black Horse Limited (BHL) in
relation to a hire purchase agreement she has with it.
What happened
Miss M is represented in her complaint but for ease of reading Ive referred to everything 
said on her behalf as if Miss M had said it.
Miss M and BHL are both parties to a hire purchase agreement. In April 2020 Miss M
contacted BHL because she was struggling to make her repayments due to financial
difficulties caused by the restrictions put in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ultimately, Miss M tells us she asked for and was given she says, six months of payment
deferrals. However, Miss M indicates that she was unaware of the specific terms that would
apply if she accepted the payment deferrals. In particular, she was aware that some sort of
charge would be levied but she was not told the amount despite receiving a lot of
communication from BHL. However, given this situation had come about due to
circumstances outside of her control her expectation was that a small fee of around £10/£20
per month would be charged. Therefore, she suggests that she was surprised to find that 
BHL wanted to charge her £599 in total (according to her).
Miss Ms stance is that the amount of the charge was hidden away in the small print. She
suggests that this is not appropriate, rather the amount of the charge should have been
made clearer. Moreover, she indicates had she known how much she was going to be asked
to pay, which she indicates she cant afford, she would never have asked for the payment 
deferral. Instead, she would have continued to make her full monthly contractual 
repayments, even though this would have been a struggle.
Overall, Miss M considers that BHL has acted unfairly and as a result, she wants it to write
off the charge.
BHLs position was that it has done nothing wrong. It indicated its records show that Miss M
applied online for the first payment deferral, which lasted three months. In order to progress
this application Miss M had to confirm she had read the important information it provided
about the terms on which the payment deferral would be granted. 
The terms set out that a charge would be made and how the charge would be calculated. 
They also set out what the maximum charge would be. Moreover, it indicates that it had sent 
Miss M letters on a monthly basis to show how much she would be paying each time BHL 
deferred her repayments. 
On this basis it did not agree that Miss M was unaware of the amount of the charges 
because of anything it did wrong. Further it did not agree that it had acted inappropriately in 
applying the charges. 
For all of these reasons it did not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Dissatisfied, Miss M complained to this service.
Once Miss Ms complaint was with us, BHL told us that Miss M had had five not six months
of payment deferrals. It told us that the amount it had charged her for this was £467.89 
(according to it) in total not £599. Plus, it pointed out that in order to carry out Miss Ms 
request for a payment deferral it had extended the original term of the agreement by five 
months. It added that this was appropriate and pointed to the relevant guidance. Specially it 
said.
The guidance supplied to [BHL] by the Financial Conduct Authority confirmed that whilst
they did not recommend that a business charges a fee for processing payment holidays, the
finance company was entitled to charge interest on the account for the additional time that it
would take to repay the finance.
Miss M told us that she had never received the monthly letters. In addition, she wanted to 
underline that all of this happened during the pandemic and this context was important. 
There had been guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which dealt with 
what should happen if a motor finance customer was experiencing financial difficulties due to 
the pandemic. The overriding purpose of the guidance was to provide relief during an
unprecedented event. Miss M suggested that BHLs actions were not in line with the
objectives of the guidance. She reiterated that in her opinion BHL was charging too much.
Miss Ms complaint was sent to me. I looked into Miss Ms complaint. I issued a provisional 
decision. This is what I said about what Id provisionally decided and why in that provisional 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss M is correct when she suggests that the FCA put guidance in place to help consumers,
who like her, were experiencing difficulties in making repayments to their motor finance
agreements due to the pandemic. The guidance sets out the FCAs expectation that firms
provide, for a temporary period only, exceptional, and immediate support to customers
facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus. In particular, the
guidance anticipated that firms such as BHL should provide payment deferrals (of up to six
months), where a consumer requested this, provided such a payment deferral was in the
consumers best interests.
Further, the guidance also anticipated what should happen about paying back the moneyowed once the payment deferral period had ended. The guidance explained that many 
customers might be able to make full repayment of both the deferred repayments and the 
normal monthly repayments, at the end of the payment deferral period, and if they could this 
was likely to be the best option for the consumer. It was expected that this option should be 
discussed, in good time, before the payment deferral ended.
However, the guidance also accepted where a customer can resume full repayments after
the initial payment deferral, but is unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in
full, the firm should allow them to repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the
agreement or allow a longer period for repayment. The firm should consider what is most in
the customers interests. Again, these options should have been discussed with the
consumer in good time and certainly before the deferral period ended.
I take on board, that Miss M suggests that if she had known what she would be charged she
would never have asked for the payment deferral. Instead she would have continued with
her monthly repayments as normal. However, I am not persuaded by this. This was a far
from normal situation, overnight it seems, like many people, Miss Ms financial 
circumstances changed through no fault of her own. And this regrettably meant that she was
struggling to repay. 
That being so I am not satisfied that Miss M would have been able to continue to make her 
normal repayments. However, if in response to this provisional decision, Miss M chooses to 
send in information to show she could have made the repayments I will consider that 
information before I issue my next decision.
With the FCAs guidance in mind Im going to look at Miss Ms circumstances after the end of
the payment deferral and did BHL act fairly and reasonably in the light of her very particular
individual situation.
I would have expected BHL to have offered Miss M the chance to pay off the deferred
payments in full at the end of the payment deferral period. It appears it did not. But I cannot
fairly or reasonably say this made any difference here because from the information I have
seen Miss M could not have taken up this option, even if it had been offered.
I would also have expected BHL to have offered Miss M, the opportunity to pay off the
deferred payments over the original term of the agreement. That said that would have meant
her paying extra each month on top of the contractual monthly payments. Again, it does not
appear that BHL did put this possibility to Miss M. That said, nothing I have seen persuades
me that Miss M could have taken this option had it been offered.
It follows that I think that the only realistic avenue open to Miss M was that which she has
been offered. That is the extension of the original term to allow her to pay off the deferred
repayments.
But that said this is not the end of it because the guidance also said a firm should give
customers adequate information to enable them to understand the implications of a payment
deferral. For example, for a regulated credit agreement, this would include the
consequences of interest that is accrued during this period and its effect on the balance due
under the agreement and on future payments. This is where I think BHL let Miss M down.
It is not that I think the charges were hidden in the small print as Miss M suggests. I am
satisfied that BHL did enough to bring its approach to Miss Ms attention, in particular I am
satisfied that Miss M had to follow the online process BHL outlines for the initial payment
deferral. Moreover, I am satisfied that the correctly addressed letters BHL tells us about
would have been delivered.However, I find it very unclear from reading the information that BHL has supplied about how
the payment deferral worked to see exactly how the charges would be calculated and what
they might be. It was this information that Miss M would likely have seen while she was 
deciding whether to go ahead with the payment deferral application. Therefore, I think BHL
did not give Miss M adequate information to enable her to understand in advance of making
her decision the implications of her payment deferral. I find this in turn, most likely, caused
her to experience distress and inconvenience. I am persuaded that it is fair and reasonable
that BHL ought to compensate Miss M for this. I think that £300 is an appropriate amount.
I find nothing BHL did could reasonably have given Miss M the impression that BHL was
likely to charge her £10/£20 per month. Rather, that seems to have been a figure she came
up with by herself. Moreover, nothing I have seen suggests that BHL has charged Miss M
£599 in total. The amount BHL has charged is a commercial decision for it, which I cant set
aside. And I have no power to tell BHL therefore that it must charge Miss M less on the basis
that the charges are too high.
My provisional decision was as follows:
My provisional decision is that I intend to require Black Horse Limited to pay Miss M £300 
for distress and inconvenience.
I invited Miss M and BHL to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do so. 
Both did. Miss M responded to let us know that I am happy that the ombudsman has 
highlighted the confusion cause by BHF with their information and how the charges would 
work. I do feel that £500 compensation would recognise the distress and inconvenience 
experienced. She mentioned again how this had all happened in the context of an already 
stressful time due to the pandemic. On this basis Miss M rejected my provisional decision. 
BHL responded to let us know it accepted the provisional decision and awaited the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Miss M and BHL for their responses. Ive reviewed the complete file again and 
revisited my provisional decision.
Miss M indicates that £500 would be a more appropriate award for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced due to what BHL did wrong. However, she does not go on to 
say why this figure is more appropriate so Ive not much to go on here. She does though 
mention the wider circumstances at the time, that is the pandemic. The award I suggested 
already took on board that Miss M experienced this distress and inconvenience during what 
may well have been a particularly taxing time for her due to the pandemic. Without that wider 
context Id have made a smaller award. Therefore, in the circumstances, I am not persuaded 
by Miss Ms response to my provisional decision. It follows Ive reached the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited must pay Miss M £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.It must pay the £300 within 28 days of the date on which Miss M accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of the final 
decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss M can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss M should refer back to BHL if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman