DRN-3485229
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc defaulted her loan account for non-payment.
What happened
Miss O had a personal loan with Sainsburys for which she was making monthly payments. 
In January 2021, Miss O wrote to Sainsburys to advise that she was moving to a new 
address and to ask for a payment holiday on the account because she was struggling to 
meet the required monthly payments because of the impact of Covid-19. Having sent the 
letter, Miss O then cancelled her direct debit which was set to pay the monthly instalments 
due on the loan.
A few months later, Miss O discovered that Sainsburys hadnt updated her address or 
applied a payment holiday to her account, and that theyd defaulted her account because the 
monthly payments had stopped being made. Miss O wasnt happy about this, especially as 
Sainsburys had issued the default notice while her account was only two months in arrears, 
which she didnt feel was fair. So, she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Miss Os complaint. They noted that theyd never received any letter 
from Miss O updating her address or requesting a payment holiday, and that when the loan 
payments had stopped being received theyd written to Miss O at the address they held on 
file for her. Sainsburys also didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Miss O in how 
theyd administered the loan once the monthly payments had stopped, including in how 
theyd defaulted the account, and so they didnt uphold Miss Os complaint.
Miss O wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Sainsburys had acted unfairly, given the circumstances, and so they also didnt uphold   
Miss Os complaint.
Miss O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Miss O might feel unhappy that her account was defaulted for non-
payment by Sainsburys, given that she wrote a letter to Sainsburys requesting a payment 
holiday on her account and providing her new address details for Sainsburys to correspond 
with her.
But Sainsburys never received the letter that Miss O sent, and Miss O never confirmed with 
Sainsburys that theyd updated her address or applied a payment holiday to her account 
before cancelling the direct debit which was in place to make the monthly payments required 
by the loan.
Considering what happened here from Sainsburys perspective  that they stopped receiving 
payments towards the loan without explanation, learned that the direct debit had been 
cancelled, and received no response to any of the letters they sent to Miss O at the address 
which theyd used previously and which they had no knowledge that Miss O was no longer 
present at  its difficult to conclude that Sainsburys did anything wrong here by beginning 
the collections procedure that they did. 
Im aware that Miss O feels its unfair that Sainsburys issued a default notice on the account 
at a time when the account was only two months in arrears, and I acknowledge that as per 
guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) that its considered good 
practice for a business to only issue a default notice when an account is a minimum of three 
months in arrears.
Sainsburys issued the default notice on 27 February 2021, giving a deadline for Miss O to 
clear the arrears on the account of 27 March 2021. But I feel that if Sainsburys had issued 
the default notice a month later, so that the deadline for Miss O to clear the arrears was 27 
April 2021, which I feel would have been reasonable, that Miss O would still in all likelihood 
not have met that deadline, such that the account would still have been defaulted. And I say 
this because its evident that the first payment that Miss O made towards the account 
following the cancellation of the direct debit was on 12 May 2021  which would have been 
after a 27 March deadline and by which time the account was four months in arears. As 
such, I wont be instructing Sainsburys to remove the default here as Miss O would like.
I can appreciate that given that Miss O had changed address and was experiencing difficult 
financial circumstances that she may have overlooked obtaining confirmation from 
Sainsburys that her request for a payment holiday had been received. But it was Miss Os 
responsibility as the account holder to have monitored her account, and given that there was 
no guarantee that even had her request for a payment holiday been received by Sainsburys 
that it would have been granted, I feel that it was incumbent on Miss O to have confirmed 
that she didnt need to make ongoing payments towards the loan before she cancelled the 
direct debit as she did.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Sainsburys have acted unfairly or unreasonably here in how they 
administered Miss Os account given what happened and the information that was available 
to them. And while I accept that Sainsburys didnt have an accurate understanding of Miss 
Os financial position at that time, or of why the loan payments had been stopped, I dont feel 
that this was because of any failure or omission on Sainsburys behalf.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss O was wanting, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Sainsburys to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Miss O will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman