DRN-3325408
The complaint
Mr Y complains that its impossible to manage his three buy to let mortgage accounts on 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plcs system.
What happened
Mr Y has three buy to let mortgages with BOI that he needs to manage in terms of payments 
going out and balances etc. In the past he called BOI for information, but he found their 
phone lines were overrun with calls. Mr Y hoped to set up one account for all three 
mortgages but BOI was unable to accommodate that and in the spring of 2020, he had to set 
up an online account for one of his mortgages and then in November 2020 set up online 
accounts for the other two.  Mr Y encountered problems almost immediately and now when 
he logs in an error message is presented to him which BOI has not been able to fix although 
he has tried to work along with BOI and taken the remedial action their IT team suggested.
BOI said that it was unable to locate any system problems. Our investigators view was that 
although there might be problems that they were unlikely to be the fault of BOI and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr Y disagrees saying he cant access the 
accounts and has the screenshots to prove it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint about technology not working as both parties hoped for. Mr Y says that 
he cant get online access and has produced screenshots to prove it. The bank says that Mr 
Y has accessed his account on several occasions and that it has conducted substantial 
reviews and told us no further issues can be located. The Bank has clear access to the 
hubs and cannot see why Mr Y appears to be encountering any issues. 
There is a problem which presumably could be the fault of BOIs system or the fault of Mr Ys 
computer or how he accesses the account, From BOIs point of view it is able to show that at 
times when Mr Y says he couldnt access the account there is some activity suggesting that 
there werent any problems if Mr Y was using the correct access procedures. 
BOI say that after an extensive investigation they are unable to identify any problems with Mr 
Ys online accounts. Mr Y has problems but Ive no independent evidence that that is the 
fault of BOIs system as opposed to how Mr Y accesses it. In those circumstances I cant 
fairly find that its BOIs system thats causing the problems so I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman