DRN-1486632
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged 
him for damage to a car her returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Gs finance agreement came to an end and he left his car with a dealer and it was 
collected by an agent acting for MBFS several; weeks later. The report identified several 
areas of damage and MBFS sent an invoice for £801.22. Mr G disputed this and MBFS 
agreed that damage to a post and wasnt chargeable and it removed a charge for a missing 
wheel nut key. However, it said £550 was due for the remaining damage.
Mr G didnt agree brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He looked at the report and photographs 
supplied by MBFS and concluded the damage fell outside fair wear and tear. He explained 
that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines.
He said Mr G had left it at the dealer at his own risk and he was responsible for any damage 
found when the car was returned to MBFS. 
Mr G didnt agree and said his complaint had been misunderstood. He had left the car with 
the dealer as agreed with MBFS and it had been left there for several weeks despite him 
reminding the business. He had washed and cleaned the car and had no reason to expect to 
have to pay for any damages.  He said he had asked the dealer to inspect the car when he 
left it, but it had refused. 
He thought the damage may have been caused after he had handed it over. He also 
disputed that the contract he signed made him responsible for damage after he handed it 
back to Mercedes. Mr G also disputed the photographic evidence and suggested they had 
been enlarged to make the damage look bigger.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr G, but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr G entered into an agreement under which he accepted that if the car wasnt returned in 
an acceptable condition he would be liable for any damages which went beyond fair wear 
and tear. It is necessary to understand what returning a car means. 
I asked MBFS for clarification about its returns process. It explained that all returns from 
customers are organised by its collection department from via its agents. However, should 
the customer wish to return the vehicle via a retailer they may request this option. It appears 
Mr G asked about this option as he was as he was leaving the country at the end of the June 
2020. 
MBFS says it notified the dealer Mr G had requested to return the vehicle through them. The 
dealer is a separate company and it would need to check the ability to be able to accept the 
car (checking space and staffing levels) and they would manage the return of the car directly 
with the customer. 
MBFS relied on the dealer notify the collection agent the car was ready for collection. It says 
that in Mr Gs case this took slightly longer than normal. The agent then carried out a further 
full inspection.
I appreciate Mr G presumes that when he left the car with the dealer he had handed it back 
to MBFS, but the reality is that the dealer is a separate entity. This is demonstrated by its 
refusal to carry out an inspection. In effect he was leaving it with a third party and I cannot 
hold MBFS responsible for anything that may have occurred while it was at the dealers. 
The collection agent was acting on behalf of MBFS and it carried out the inspection which 
identified various areas of damage. Our investigator set out why the damages went beyond 
fair wear and tear and I wont repeat that detail here. I have reviewed the photographs in the 
light of the BVRLA guidelines and quite simply I consider them all to be chargeable. 
It also appears that the damage to the alloy wheels wasnt recent and it looks like it would 
have been sustained before the car was handed over to the dealer. Furthermore, I have no 
evidence other than Mr Gs assertion that the car was in good condition and this makes it 
difficult to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman