DRN-3081400
The complaint
Mr L complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account and register a fraud 
marker against him.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr L received a credit of £777.18 into his account. The next day, Mr L made 
two cash withdrawals and a transfer to his own account. From Mr Ls other account, he then 
made two faster payments out.
A few days later, the payment which initially credited Mr Ls account was reported as 
fraudulent by the sending back. Santander contacted Mr L to ask him about it. As part of this, 
they also blocked Mr Ls account while they carried out a review.
Mr L explained that he was helping out an individual who he knew from University. Mr L 
explained that this individual said he had lost his bank card and asked Mr L if he could 
transfer money to his account, which Mr L could then withdraw for him. Mr L agreed.
When Santander explained the funds were fraudulent, Mr L said he wasnt aware. He 
showed his local Santander branch copies of a conversation between him and the individual 
to support his story.
In June 2020, Santander received an indemnity from the sending bank. 
In July 2020, Santander completed their review and decided to end their banking relationship 
with Mr L. They closed Mr Ls account in August 2020 and registered a Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against him. Santander gave Mr L access to the money 
left in his account  around £230. Mr L thinks more should be returned to him  but 
Santander used money left in Mr Ls account to send the fraudulent amount back to the 
sending bank following the indemnity claim.
Mr L brought the complaint to our service. He maintains that he didnt know the money he 
received into his account was fraudulent and thinks Santander has made a racist decision 
because Mr L is an international student. Mr L says he has been unable to open another UK 
bank account because of the CIFAS marker which has also prevented him being able to get 
a job.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In summary, he said;
Santander were entitled to return the money to source when they received an 
indemnity  and therefore was satisfied that the money left after this (around £230) 
was for Mr L,
the CIFAS marker was recorded correctly based on the evidence hed seen  mainly 
that fraudulent funds did enter Mr Ls account and Mr L then moved them on. And 
based on Mr Ls previous links to CIFAS he should have been aware that allowing 
somebody else to use his account to move money around is prohibited,
Santander complied with their terms and conditions when closing Mr Ls account;
and, hed seen no evidence to show that Santander had discriminated against Mr L 
due to him being an international student.
Mr L disagreed  he asked for an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything differently. Ive explained why 
below.
Were Santander entitled to review, block and close Mr Ls account?
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Santander were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing Mr Ls account. 
Santander are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers 
and its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ls case, he was the 
recipient of fraudulent funds, so Im pleased to see Santander took the action to block any 
further activity on the account while they investigated things.
The money Mr L received has been confirmed as fraudulent. Ive reviewed the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ls account. The relevant parts of the terms and conditions state:
17. Cancellation and closing your account

17.3 It is a condition that you do not:
a) act abusively, offensively or violently towards our staff; or
b) become bankrupt; or
c) misuse your account; or
d) act dishonestly with us; or
e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or
other criminal activities.
And, if any of the above applies, you will be in breach of these
Conditions and we can close your account on giving you
immediate notice or less notice than that specified in Condition
17.2 in Section 2A.
Based on this, and like our investigator, Im satisfied Santander complied with these terms. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably say Santander did anything wrong when deciding to close Mr 
Ls account.
Should Santander have used the money in Mr Ls account to pay the indemnity?
Mr L feels that the money left in his account was rightfully owed by him  but Santander 
used this money to return the fraudulent amount back to the sending bank. Ive thought 
about this carefully.
The practice of providing indemnities in situations like this is well established. It gives 
business and consumers protection on recalling money when the money in question isnt 
rightfully owned. In this case, a third-party bank asked Santander to return the money to 
them because it was reported as fraud by their own customer  that means the third-party 
bank would have been at a loss. Having considered the circumstances of whats happened 
with Mr Ls complaint, Im satisfied Santander returning the money to the third-party bank 
was appropriate. Once Santander honoured the indemnity by returning the money, there was around £230 left in Mr Ls account. Im pleased to see Santander released this amount 
directly to Mr L.
In summary, banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their customers money. And 
this is whats happened here. The other bank  and their customer  was at a loss because 
of the payment which credited Mr Ls account, so they exercised their right to claim their 
money back. I appreciate Mr L feels he is at a loss because of this, but the fraudulent money 
which entered Mr Ls account wasnt ever his, so it would be unjust to allow Mr L to have the 
money while the third-party bank and their customer is at a loss.
Was the fraud marker applied fairly?
Following their review, Santander placed a fraud marker against Mr Ls name with CIFAS. 
The marker that Santander have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr L is guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. 
The alleged fraud or financial crime here relates to Mr Ls account being used to receive and 
utilise fraudulent funds. The relevant finding for me to make, is not specifically what I 
conclude was most likely to have been Mr Ls intentions and actions in relations to the funds. 
Rather, my role is to determine whether I think Santander were entitled to escalate their 
concerns to CIFAS based on the available evidence. 
Its not in dispute that the funds that entered Mr Ls account were fraudulent and he didnt 
have any legitimate reason to receive these into his account. So, I have carefully considered 
whether Santander could conclude he was deliberately dishonest in the receipt and 
utilisation of these funds and not an unwitting money mule. Having done so, I do think there 
is enough evidence to suggest that Santander could reasonably conclude Mr L had been 
deliberately dishonest. Ill explain why:
The contact notes from Santander show Mr L initially told them the individual who 
made the transfer was a family member, then that changed to a friend  and at other 
times the individual is described as a classmate only. I dont think Mr Ls story has 
been consistent.
Mr L received a previous payment of around £10 from the same individual, and a 
further payment following the one which is in dispute  therefore I consider Mr L and 
this individual had an agreement which extends beyond this one payment.
I dont consider the screenshots from the conversation Mr L has supplied is a full 
account of the communication. I say that because the first screenshot is from a 
conversation on 25 May at 10:54pm and then the conversation skips to another 
social media platform on a different day, despite it being apparent there are further 
messages from the same date and time which havent been shared.
The screenshots show one message where an individual is holding a copy of Mr Ls 
bank statement with the messages This one is yours right; Can I ask her to pay 
money into this account. There is also a further message which states Tell ur guy to 
check and then a message containing bank details which has been forwarded from 
someone else. Im not persuaded this is a conversation between two classmates 
where one has lost his bank card and asked the other to withdraw money so he can 
buy food essentials and pay accommodation costs.
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr L question the individual on why money was 
coming from one individual, and then transferred to another individual.The screenshots of the conversations dont confirm who either party is  I cant see 
the full details of the individual and therefore cant be satisfied that the conversation 
is a true account of the circumstances which surround this complaint.
The screenshots also show the individual who is appearing to be Mr L asking the 
other individual when he/she can repay the money. However, I cant understand why, 
if Mr L was only helping out a friend who had lost his bank card, why any money 
would be owed to Mr L.
Ive seen evidence to show that Mr L has had a previous instance where he allowed 
somebody to use his account and had a marker registered against him.  Therefore, I 
find it reasonable to suggest Mr L should be aware he is not prohibited to use his 
account in this way.
In summary, Im satisfied that by his own admission Mr L gave someone permission to use 
his account  and it was then used to receive and pass on fraudulent funds. Based on all of 
the available evidence and arguments, Im more persuaded that Mr L was an active 
participant in what happened. Mr Ls testimony has been inconsistent and contradictory at 
points. So, I think it was fair for Santander to register the appropriate fraud marker.
Discrimination
Mr L has said he believes Santanders decision was due to him being an international 
student. He thinks Santander have racially discriminated against him. This is a serious 
allegation for Mr L to make, and one Ive thought about carefully. Ive explained above why I 
consider Santanders actions to be fair in the circumstances of whats happened. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Santander made their decision based on Mr Ls nationality or any other 
characteristic. Therefore, I wont be upholding the complaint on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman