DRN-3396884
The complaint
Mr O complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) damaged his van and caused a fire
when trying to repair it when he claimed on his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr O held a roadside assistance policy with IPA. Mr Os van broke down, so he called IPA to 
attend at the roadside. IPA attended the scene and noticed a fuse had blown. Mr O said IPA 
used a copper wire to bridge the connection where the fuse was. As a result, smoke was 
seen coming from the van and a fire started in the engine bay, which IPA put out.
As Mr Os van had caught fire, he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. His
insurer deemed the van a total loss and paid him the market value. Mr O wasnt happy and
complained to IPA. He said theyd caused the fire and as a result he hadnt had a van to use
and he wanted IPA to compensate him for causing the fire.
IPA looked into the complaint and didnt think theyd done anything wrong. IPA said theyd
used a fuseable line and because of this didnt think theyd caused the fire and thought
there was an underlying electrical fault which caused the fire. Mr O disagreed and brought
the complaint here.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and found that IPA hadnt provided any
documentation to support their position that they hadnt done anything wrong. He therefore
recommended IPA reimburse Mr O for the cost of his claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2022 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy say if his van breaks down then IPA will attend 
the scene to try and get it working again. It goes onto say if it cant be made safe to drive 
where its broken down then IPA will recover the van.
It's not in dispute that IPA attended the breakdown or attempted to get Mr Os van working.
What is in dispute is whether IPA caused the fire when trying to get Mr Os van working
again.
IPA have disputed this and said because a fuseable line would have been used then they
dont think they did anything which would cause the fire. However apart from IPAs
comments on this theyve not provided anything to support this position. Mr O has provided
the documents from his motor insurance claim. His insurer said upon inspecting the van its
been unable to determine if an electrical fault occurred, due to the fire. Ive therefore had to
consider what I think is most likely.
Mr O had been driving his van when it broke down, it wasnt until IPA were trying to get it
working again that the fire occurred. Considering IPA were working on the van at the time,
Im satisfied its more likely than not they either caused the fire or contributed to it. Therefore,
the fair and reasonable outcome is for IPA to compensate Mr O for his loss caused by the
fire.
Mr O has explained his motor insurer has paid him the market value of his van, recovery
charges for a second recovery, the cost of a report from a manufacturing garage and
compensation for delays in paying his claim. Therefore, the remaining loss Mr O has is his
£400 excess and the unnecessary distress and inconvenience IPA has caused. The fair and
reasonable outcome is for IPA to pay Mr O the excess hes paid (£400) plus 8% simple
interest per year on this amount, calculated from the date he paid the excess until the date
IPA makes payment. This is to compensate him for not having the money.
Mr O has also had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of having to claim through
his insurer and buy another van to replace this one. He will also have to declare this incident
to future insurers. To compensate him for this Im satisfied £500 is fair and reasonable
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr O didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. IPA 
responded and said while they didnt think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint, they agreed to my direction on how to put things right for Mr O. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr O didnt have any further comments, and IPA accepted the redress I proposed in my 
provisional decision. I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr O, the £400 excess hes paid, plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount, calculated from the date he paid the excess until the date payment 
is made. Plus £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman