DRN-1467714
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt responded to his offer of a partial settlement in 
respect of his credit card account for over two years. And his credit score is suffering as a 
result. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr B suffered a medical issue which resulted in him experiencing some financial 
difficulties. He says most of his creditors accepted his offer to partially repay his outstanding 
balances. But that TSB was difficult to deal with and didnt respond to his request. As a 
result, he says he now has adverse data (including a default) recorded on his credit file. He 
also says that his account has been transferred back and forth between TSB and a third-
party debt recovery agent.
To resolve the complaint, Mr B would like TSB to accept his partial settlement offer and 
remove all the adverse data including the default from his credit file.
TSB says Mr B missed several monthly payments due to his credit card account in 2017. It 
accepts that Mr has contacted it several times with partial repayment offers. But says that it 
never received all the supporting evidence it requested (an income and expenditure 
breakdown and medical evidence) to fully consider his request. So, TSB closed Mr Bs 
account to its recovery department, defaulted the account and subsequently transferred it to 
a third-party debt recovery agent. TSB acknowledges that Mr B contacted it from time to time 
and this prompted it to recall the debt from the recovery agent, but ultimately it says the 
information it requested to consider Mr Bs request wasnt fully received until 2019. 
TSB goes on to say that when the information was received in 2019, it was fully reviewed. 
And it wrote to Mr B  at the address it held for him that time, to accept his offer. It also says 
it tried to contact Mr B by phone numerous times over the years, but that the calls were 
unanswered.
Mr B accepts he had moved address. But he says he had a Royal Mail postal re-direction 
arrangement in place. And hes adamant that he didnt receive any mail and that his phone 
statements show no record of him receiving any calls from TSB.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. But she didnt uphold it as she didnt 
think TSB had done anything wrong. She noted that TSB had now agreed to Mr Bs partial 
settlement offer and that TSBs records showed it had written to Mr B him to confirm this. But 
she said the records also showed that the letter was returned undelivered and that the calls 
TSB attempted to make to Mr B werent answered. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He says TSB had had his new address from early 2019 but he had 
not received any correspondence from it. Our investigator responded to say that the banks 
records didnt show that Mr B had updated TSB with his new address. So her opinion on his 
complaint hadnt changed.
Mr B didnt agree. He confirmed he had now paid the £400 partial settlement that TSB had 
agreed to. But he maintained that he had never received any correspondence from TSB, so he still wanted the adverse data removed from his credit file. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I 
appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Statements for Mr Bs credit card show that  by April 2017, Mr B had started missing his 
monthly payments to his credit card account. And the August 2017 statement says Mr Bs 
account was seriously overdue and a notice on the statement urged Mr B to contact it.
Mr B hasnt disputed receiving these statements and - given he asked TSB to accept a 
partial settlement, Im satisfied that he knew the status of his account at this time. So, Ive 
considered the records pertaining to Mr Bs account that TSB has provided. For clarity, I 
consider these to be a contemporaneous record of the contact (and attempted contact) 
between Mr B and TSB.  
And I can see that Mr B initially made a manual payment to his account. But, by May 2017, 
Mr B had told TSB he couldnt afford to meet his monthly payments. As our investigator has 
explained, businesses are required to report data to the credit reference agencies (CRA) 
which reflects accurately the conduct of an account. So, given the above, if TSB reported to 
the CRA that payments had been missed on the account, I cant say this information was 
incorrect or that TSB should remove it.
Further guidance from The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that when a 
consumer misses between 3  6 monthly payments, a business should default the account. 
And Ive seen from Mr Bs credit report that TSB recorded a default in October 2017. So, 
using TSBs records, Ive considered what happened between May and October 2017 to 
decide if recording a default was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr B says he made a partial offer to settle the debt and that TSB didnt respond. But the 
records show that there was telephone contact between Mr B and TSB and that during these 
calls, TSB asked Mr B to provide an income and expenditure breakdown and evidence of his 
medical problems. The records also indicate that TSB tried to contact Mr B several times to 
chase this information - but the calls werent answered. I know Mr B says that his phone 
records dont show that TSB tried to contact him. But I wouldnt expect an itemised phone bill 
to have a record of incoming calls that werent answered. Based on the records I have seen, 
Im satisfied that TSB did try to contact Mr B without success. 
Mr Bs credit file shows that TSB defaulted Mr Bs account in October 2017. As Mr B had 
missed payments to his account and had not provided the information TSB needed to 
consider his request, I think the default recorded on Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection 
of his account activity and was recorded within the ICO guidelines. So, I dont think TSB is 
required to remove the default from Mr Bs records.
By early 2018, TSBs records show that an income and expenditure breakdown had been 
received but the medical evidence was still outstanding. And that this was explained to Mr B 
when he contacted TSB in February 2018. The records also show that TSB wrote to Mr B to 
confirm its requirements and that it checked it held the correct address for Mr B with him at 
this time.TSB appear to have recalled the debt from the third-party around this time in anticipation that 
Mr B was sending information so it could consider the partial settlement offer. But when this 
wasnt received, the account was transferred back to the collection agency. I appreciate that 
it might have been confusing to Mr B if he received correspondence from both TSB and the 
third-party. But given Mr B had not provided the information TSB needed, I dont think TSB 
did anything wrong here or that Mr B lost out as a result of the account being transferred 
back and forth. 
In January 2019, the records show that Mr B contacted TSB to update his address. And that 
Mr B later called to make another partial settlement offer. The notes indicate that Mr B was 
told at this point the medical evidence was still outstanding and, given the passage of time, a 
new income and expenditure breakdown was needed.  
In April 2019 TSB received the information it had requested along with written authority to 
amend Mr Bs address to an address with the postcode ending ****0QR. The information 
was passed to TSBs vulnerable customer team for consideration. I accept that it took 
several months for TSB to consider the information provided, but ultimately TSB did accept 
the offer and I havent seen that any additional adverse data was recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file during this time. So, Mr B hasnt lost out as a result of TSB taking the time it did to accept 
his offer.
TSBs records also show it wrote to him at the address he had provided to accept the offer. 
Mr B says he didnt get this letter. I dont dispute that Mr B didnt receive the letter, but TSBs 
records show that a third-party contacted TSB to say Mr B no longer lived there. And the 
mail was subsequently returned marked gone away. But Im satisfied that TSB wrote to the 
most up to date address it held for Mr B. And that was the same address Mr Bs credit file 
says he resided at around this time. So Im satisfied that TSB wrote to the most up to date 
address it held for Mr B.    
I understand that Mr B has since paid the partial settlement. So I would expect TSB to     
update Mr Bs credit file to show that a partial repayment has been agreed. If Mr B checks 
his credit file and finds this isnt the case, he should contact TSB directly as this would be the 
basis of a new complaint. 
But for the reasons given above, I wont be asking TSB to remove any of the previous 
adverse data recorded as I think this represents an accurate reflection of the conduct of his 
account at the time it was recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman