DRN-2980000
The complaint
Mr P complains, as a director of G, about the decision of Allianz Insurance Plc to decline Gs 
business interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
G held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. The policy provides a number 
of areas of cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, G was forced to close 
its premises as a result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit the spread 
of COVID-19. 
Mr P contacted Allianz to claim for the losses G incurred as a result of this. Allianz declined 
the claim. It has said that the policy did provide some cover in relation to disease, but that 
this was limited to a specified list of diseases and this did not include COVID-19. 
Mr P was unhappy with this and complained. He said that the documents he had been sent 
did not include a limit on the diseases covered. Allianz directed Mr P to the relevant terms of 
Gs policy wording. Mr P remained unhappy and brought Gs complaint to this service. He 
felt the list of diseases was not exhaustive and that COVID-19 had not existed when the 
policy was entered, so should be covered. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld though. He thought Allianz had 
applied the terms of the policy correctly. He thought the policy wording meant that only 
certain diseases were covered, and that this did not include COVID-19. He also did not 
consider that there had been damage to property that had led to the government-imposed 
restrictions. 
Mr P remained unsatisfied, so Gs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on G, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover Gs looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy G took out.
The contract of insurance is made up of a number of documents. Mr P has referred to a 
21-page document. But this is only part of the contract. This document is comprised of, in 
part, the statement of fact and the renewal schedule. However, as is made clear in the first 
line of this document, This Policy, Schedule and Statement of Fact should be read together 
as they form your Insurance Contract. The policy wording contains details of the risks 
covered and it also confirms that, Your Complete Office Policy is made up of several parts 
which must be read together, before going onto list the three documents noted above. 
It isnt clear whether Mr P was provided with a full copy of the policy wording at the time of 
inception or renewal. However, Gs policy was taken out through a third party. And, largely 
speaking, it would have been that partys responsibility to ensure that correct documentation 
was provided to Mr P. Regardless, I am satisfied that it is the full contract, as set out in all of 
the documents above, that forms Gs policy. 
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Gs policy is based on 
an interruption to the business of the insured in relation to damage to property. Whilst I 
appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 
caused damage to property which has led to a loss for G.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption clause provides cover in the 
circumstances of Cs claim. And I think Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Gs 
claim under this area of cover.
Gs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to an interruption. But this is limited to providing cover in the event 
of certain diseases.
The Specified Illness extension provides cover for:
Loss as a direct result of:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or drink 
supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Specified Illness
c any occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises
However, the policy goes on to define Specified Illness as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
a food or drink poisoning, or
b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal 
Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Lever, Plague, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Lever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Lever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided G with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Ps comments that COVID-19 is a new disease 
that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Allianz to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Allianz intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for 
all diseases. Allianz deliberately chose to define Specified Illness by reference to a static 
list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy G has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy G has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the definition of Specified Illness in the policy. There are many potential 
illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another 
type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and 
all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Gs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Gs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Allianzs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AIG UK should have met Gs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr P, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman