DRN-3955913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Connells Limited wrongly advised them they could use an 
existing mortgage offer to buy a different property. They said they ended up exceeding their 
monthly budget to buy the house, when they later found out this advice was wrong. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were moving house. They had a property in mind, and took mortgage advice 
from a broker working under the umbrella of Connells. They stressed it was very important 
for them to remain as close as possible to their budget of £1,200 per month. The mortgage 
their broker initially found for them was £1,240 per month, but they were then offered a little 
more for their house than theyd expected, so were able to get their repayments on their 
planned purchase down to under £1,200. They got a mortgage offer from the lender that 
Connells broker recommended, with interest of 1.98% fixed for five years. 
Mr and Mrs W said the people who were selling the house they initially wanted to buy were 
causing problems with their purchase. Mr and Mrs W had become increasingly frustrated 
with the delays and lack of progress. So they started looking at alternative properties. They 
found a new build property, which was £10,500 more, and discussed buying this instead, 
with their solicitors and with their mortgage broker. The purchase price was slightly higher, 
but Mr and Mrs W said this would take them back to repayments of around £1,240, which 
they were comfortable with. 
Mr and Mrs W said it was an important factor in their decision to buy this house instead, that 
their broker had confirmed they could keep their existing mortgage, with a better interest rate 
than they would then have been able to secure if theyd reapplied. So they put down a cash 
deposit on the home they wanted to buy. 
Mr and Mrs W said it was only when the property was valued that they found out their broker 
had made a mistake. Hed applied for a green mortgage on their first property. Those are 
available for properties with an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating of A or B. But 
their new purchase was still in the final stages of construction, so it didnt have a finalised 
EPC rating, and their lender wouldnt accept an anticipated rating, for a mortgage of this 
type. So they had to apply again, and by then rates had risen. They could only secure a five 
year fixed rate of 3.54%. 
Mr and Mrs W said that things were compounded because they only found this out the day 
before their broker went on holiday. They said they were told that other lenders were more 
expensive, and would cause a delay with the purchase, so they had little option but to apply 
again with the same lender. They told us their buyers mortgage offer was going to expire on 
30th September 2022 and the buyers wouldnt be able to afford the purchase if they had to 
secure a new offer at increased rates. So Mr and Mrs W said they felt they had no choice but 
to go ahead at the higher rate. 
Mr and Mrs W said their mortgage payments were now £1,435 per month, which was 
considerably over their budget. They said if theyd realised this was how much the property 
would cost them, they would have dismissed it as an option. They said it wasnt possible to 
say what they would have done instead. They may have stuck with their first property, or 
found something else instead. But they said they wouldnt have chosen to go over their 
budget, out of their comfort zone, and reduce their disposable income so significantly. 
Mr and Mrs W said Connells had admitted its broker didnt carry out the necessary checks, 
and gave them misleading advice, but it had only offered £600 in compensation. They said 
that didnt make up for repayments which were over £2,000 per year more than they had 
wanted to pay. They thought Connells should cover the additional payments for the five 
years of the fixed rate, and also pay them for a cashback offer of £350 which they lost too. 
Connells said its broker should have checked with Mr and Mrs Ws lender, to make sure its 
criteria were met before amending their mortgage application. Connells agreed that Mr and 
Mrs Ws new build property wasnt eligible for the rate theyd previously secured. But 
Connells felt, because they werent actually eligible for that rate on the house theyd bought, 
it shouldnt have to make up the difference between what theyd expected to pay, and what 
they are now paying, each month, for their mortgage. 
Connells said it couldnt know what Mr and Mrs W would have done, if theyd been given 
different advice by its broker. It said it would like to say sorry, and pay £600 for the 
disappointment theyd experienced. 
Our investigator didnt think Connells had to do more than it had offered. She agreed 
Connells had made mistakes. But she thought Mr and Mrs W would still have gone ahead 
with the purchase of the second property. And if they had tried to either keep their original 
purchase running, or buy a different house, she didnt think they would have been able to do 
this before their buyers offer expired, or indeed their own offer expired. So she thought even 
if Connells had given Mr and Mrs W better advice, she didnt think they could have bought a 
property using the green mortgage offer they originally got. 
Our investigator also said that the term of the mortgage requiring a particular EPC rating was 
clearly set out on their offer. And it wasnt Connells fault that, when it asked, the lender 
wouldnt show any flexibility on this requirement. Our investigator said the compensation 
Connells had offered was fair. 
Mr W replied, to say he wanted to see all of the correspondence that Connells had shared 
with our service. And he said the offered compensation hadnt been paid to them. 
Our investigator sent the documents, and Mr W wrote again. He said the correspondence 
was incomplete, because Connells hadnt sent us records of its first conversation with them, 
and he didnt think Connells had sent our service the email where the broker confirmed they 
could use their pre-existing mortgage offer to buy a different house. 
Our investigator replied, to say there was no dispute that Mr and Mrs W were given incorrect 
information. And she said Connells had shared with our service the emails between Mrs W 
and the broker, dated 20 and 21 July, where the broker advised the switch in properties 
wouldn't affect the rate or the offer as long as the Loan to Value remained the same. 
Connells hadnt withheld that from our service, and our investigator had sent it on to Mr and 
Mrs W. Our investigator still thought Connells offer was fair. 
Mr W said it appeared that the issue here wasnt whether misleading advice was given. It 
was the consequence of that misadvice and the financial impact that has had on them.He said we were saying they would have gone ahead with the same purchase, but he was 
adamant they would not. They said they would not have given that house any further 
thought, if theyd realised what the repayments would be on a new mortgage, and that they 
would lose the cashback too. Mr W said we were wrong to tell him and Mrs W what they 
were thinking at the time, and he wanted to know how he could prove that they would have 
acted differently, had they been given the correct advice. He thought the records from the 
first meeting with the broker were important, as those showed how much emphasis they 
placed on being able to keep payments at or below £1,200 per month. Mr W also still 
thought Connells could be withholding information from our service.
Our investigator said that for her to ask Connells to reimburse the difference between the 
rate Mr and Mrs W were first offered, and the one they eventually purchase their home with, 
she would need to be satisfied that theyd most likely have purchased a suitable property, 
and that completion would have taken place before the original mortgage offer expired on 4 
November 2022, if theyd got the right advice. Our investigator said that in this case, she just 
couldnt be sure of that. 
The case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 21 July Mr and Mrs W asked if their existing mortgage offer could be transferred to a new 
build property. I think its clear from the information Connells has shared with us, that the 
advice they were then given was wrong. A mortgage like this one was only available for a 
new build property if it was from this lenders list of approved developers. So the broker 
ought to have asked Mr and Mrs W who the developer was, and on receipt of this 
information, he could have told them that they would not be able to transfer their existing 
offer to this new property.
Mr and Mrs W relied on the advice they were given, and reached a decision on 25 July 2022 
to pull out of their planned purchase, and buy this property instead. I think Mr and Mrs W 
should have been told in July that they would need to get a new mortgage, if they wanted to 
go ahead with the purchase of this new build property. So Ive thought about what they might 
have done, if theyd been told that. 
Mr and Mrs W have said its hard to say what they would have done, if theyd been given the 
right advice at this stage. However, they are adamant they would not have gone ahead with 
this purchase. Mr and Mrs W have told us they might have stuck with their existing purchase, 
or looked for a different property. 
Theres no guarantee that Mr and Mrs W would have been better off now, if they had stuck 
with their original planned purchase, in late July. They hadnt exchanged contracts on that 
property, and it appears that, by the end of July, they still didnt have any date to do so. I can 
see, from emails sent at the time and what Mr and Mrs W have said to us since, that they 
were convinced the problems they were experiencing with the sale, and the lack of progress 
or agreement on dates, were all warning signs the seller of this house was not ready to go 
ahead. And I can quite see why they reached that conclusion. Its also important to note that 
Mr and Mrs W knew their own buyer was going to be unable to buy if their mortgage offer 
expired, and that offer was due to expire fairly soon. So it is difficult to say what would have happened, if Mr and Mrs W had stuck with their first 
option. But it doesnt seem to me to be more likely that the purchase of the property they 
were first interested in, would have gone ahead within in the time available on their original 
mortgage offer. And it may be worth noting that the publicly available records of the sale of 
the first property Mr and Mrs W were interested in, suggest that their seller secured a higher 
offer, and did not sell within Mr and Mrs Ws timescale. That does make me think that the 
fears Mr and Mrs W expressed at the time about the first house they were interested in 
purchasing, may indeed have been well founded.
Mr and Mrs W also said they might have looked at another home. But I think that if theyd 
been given the right advice in late July, their options were still unfortunately quite limited. 
They had buyers whose mortgage offer expired at the end of September, and knew their 
sale would collapse if it wasnt completed by then. They were only able to use the mortgage 
offer they had for a house with an EPC rating of A or B, or a new build from this lenders list 
of approved developers, which would further reduce their available options. I note they 
havent suggested there were alternative properties they might also have been interested in 
at the time. I think if there had been other options, within budget, meeting this lenders strict 
criteria for this mortgage, and available within their timescale, that might have been of 
interest to them, then Mr and Mrs W would have mentioned those properties to us.
Mr and Mrs W were adamant they would not have chosen to exceed their budget, and 
wanted us to take account of how important this budget was to them. I can see they have 
stressed this, at a number of points during their complaint. But I also have to bear in mind 
that, although they told their broker they had a budget of £1,200 per month, they almost 
immediately chose to go over that a little, for their first choice of property, and they knew 
they would be exceeding this budget again when they changed to purchasing what is now 
their new home, a new build house which they really liked. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Mr and Mrs W would have been likely to take a 
decision to push their budget for a home they really wanted. If theyd been given better 
advice, would they have made the choice to go ahead with the purchase of their current 
property?
I know Mr and Mrs W are quite sure now that they would not have made the choice to 
purchase this property, which they said has stretched their budget. They said they only did 
this because they found out they couldnt use their existing mortgage not long before the 
purchase, when they felt they had few options. But I think they also chose to go ahead, at 
least in part, because it was a house they really liked, which they could envisage as their 
new home. And considering all the issues Ive set out above, on balance, I do think the 
outcome was likely to be the same here. I think if theyd been properly advised, they would 
still have gone ahead with this purchase. 
I think there is one final aspect to deal with here, about what would have happened if Mr and 
Mrs W had been given better advice in late July. If theyd realised they could not buy the new 
build property which is now their home, using the green mortgage theyd already secured, 
then Mr and Mrs W could have applied for a new mortgage right away, rather than in August. 
So I wanted to check whether Mr and Mrs W were worse off at all, because their current 
mortgage application wasnt made at the end of July. 
Ive asked Connells, and it has consulted Mr and Mrs Ws lender to find out the rates 
available at the time. If Mr and Mrs W had applied at the end of July, then their mortgage 
offer would still have been at the same rate that Mr and Mrs W later secured, on 22 August.For those reasons, I dont think Connells does have to pay the difference in costs between 
the mortgage offer they hoped to take up, and the one they eventually got. I do think that Mr 
and Mrs W have been left feeling as if they had little to no choice, and I think its important to 
recognise how upsetting that is for them, even if I have concluded that its a little more likely 
than not they would have made the same choices if theyd been properly advised. But I do 
think the payment of £600 that Connells offered recognises that, as well as the difficulties Mr 
and Mrs W then experienced securing their second mortgage offer (where I can see 
Connells did make mistakes, causing some delays and further work for Mr and Mrs B). So 
thats what I propose to award in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that Connells Limited must pay Mr and Mrs W the amount of £600 which it 
previously offered for this complaint, unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman