DRN-3811079
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Revolut Ltd unreasonably refused to refund transactions 
withdrawn from her bank account after she said her phone was stolen in a nightclub. 
What happened
Ms A said she was in a nightclub abroad and her phone was stolen on the night of 10 March 
2022. She later discovered money was moved from her Revolut account to an unrecognised 
account and then from another savings account she held with a third party bank into her 
Revolut account and then out to this unrecognised account. This meant the fraudster not 
only had to access her phone but the Revolut app and then the savings account app. 
Ms A said her phone and apps were protected by both passcodes and Face ID, and she had 
not shared the details with anyone.
Revolut said there was no failed authentication issues when its app was accessed and given 
the security protection, it was of the view that whoever accessed her account on her phone 
knew of her log in passcodes. So, it refused to refund the transactions. 
Ms A brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Ms A 
didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint Ill now explain why. 
We asked Revolut to send us in the log in details for its app on Ms As phone. Its clear the 
phone app was used extensively throughout 12 March 2022 after Ms A said it was stolen, or 
that she lost it. Then there was a gap until it was used again extensively through 15 March 
and 16 March 2022 when the disputed transactions occurred. On 12 March 2022 there is 
some money in the Revolut account, but its not taken at this stage, which seems odd 
behaviour for a thief, as why would they leave it in there when they could access it.
 
Ms A said her savings from another account was transferred by the thief to her Revolut 
account. However, the evidence there shows this account wasnt accessed by her phone on 
this trip abroad until 15 March 2022.
Very importantly its also clear that Ms A activated her lost mode for her phone on 14 March 
2022, which in effect blocks any access to her phone. And whoever had the phone appears 
to have been able to bypass the lost mode which can only suggest they had full access to 
the security details of the phone. This is because Miss As Revolut account with the added 
funds from her other savings account were not transferred from her Revolut account until 16 
March 2022. 
So, on this basis, I cant see how anyone else could have accessed her savings in the other 
account to transfer the money to the Revolut account and if they could have, then why 
wouldnt they have done so much earlier. And I think the same for the funds in the Revolut 
account too. The gap in time plus the extensive use of the app on 12 March doesnt match 
normal behaviour for a thief in my view, more so since Ms A her phone was missing from 
night of 10 March or early morning of 11 March 2022.
Revolut has shown the disputed transactions were properly authenticated and that only Ms 
As phone was registered to the app. Revolut has also shown there were no failed log ins 
where someone was trying and failing to gain access the app. That in turn shows whoever 
was accessing the phone knew the security details both for her phone and the apps. Ms A 
said she has not shared them with anyone, and they werent written down anywhere. 
So based on this evidence, I dont consider Revolut did anything wrong in refusing to refund 
the disputed transactions to Ms A because I consider it is more likely than not the 
transactions were conducted by Ms A or by somebody else with her knowledge or authority.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman