DRN-3434759
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr S, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
J held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on the policy after it was 
required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.
RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a 
result of a notifiable disease at the premises, J hadnt shown that thered actually been a 
case of Covid-19 at its premises.
J brought its complaint to our service. It said it had been required to close by the 
Government due to Covid-19. It believed RSA should cover the claim as in effect Covid-19 
had led to the closure of its business.
Our Investigator looked into Js complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She said 
there was nothing to suggest that J had closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt 
covered.
J asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr S said the disease was all over the local town at 
the relevant time and he thought it was unreasonable to assume it hadnt manifested itself at 
Js premises as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Js business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Js claim.
The most relevant part of Js policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 at 
Js premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
I appreciate that many people caught Covid-19 at the relevant time. But the majority of 
people didnt. J hasnt identified anyone at its premises at the relevant time who most likely 
had Covid-19. So, I dont think I can fairly say that its most likely there was a case 
manifesting itself at the premises.
Mr S also thought the reference to business interruption cover in the policy was misleading. 
Just because part of the policy is headed Business Interruption doesnt mean that anything 
causing business interruption is covered. I say that because the policy sets out what is and 
isnt covered. And unfortunately for J there isnt a term in the policy which covers this claim.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to J. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Js claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman