DRN-2085886
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for disputed transactions 
made from her account. 
What happened
On the 29 March 2020 Miss S explained she lost her debit card when she was out running, 
and she contacted the bank to request a new card. 
This was ordered by Barclays and dispatched to her address on the 31 March 2020. 
Miss S says she didnt receive her debit card and during the 5 and 6 March 2020 a number 
of chip and PIN transactions were carried out at petrol stations. 
On the 6 April 2020 Barclays phoned Miss S, and explained to her that theyd been 
suspicious activity on her account. Miss S explained that she hung up because she didnt 
think it was Barclays and thought it was a scam. In the early hours of the morning Miss S 
checked her online banking, noticed the disputed transactions and contacted Barclays. 
Barclays investigated but didnt refund the transactions. The bank said they couldnt find a 
possible PIN compromise. 
Miss S didnt accept Barclays outcome so brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. But didnt uphold it. In summary she 
said that there was no explanation for how the PIN was compromised, it was odd that Miss S 
didnt check her online banking after the call from the bank and her post is delivered to a 
secure address. 
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view and said:
She didnt spot the transactions until the morning of the 7 April 2020 and phoned the 
bank straight away. 
She genuinely thought the call was a scam.
Barclays allowed the fraud to happen.
And they couldnt prevent the pending transactions. 
The bank advised her not to report the disputed transactions to the police and 
therefore her opportunity to get hold of CCTV was lost. 
As Miss S didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ss genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that its 
not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss S consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Miss S 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
For a fraudster to carry out the disputed transactions theyd need access to Miss Ss 
card and PIN. Miss Ss card was posted to her address on the 31 March 2020 and 
she believes it must have been intercepted. Ive considered this possibility, but I find 
this unlikely. Miss S explains that shes not aware of any problems with her post, and 
its posted directly through her letter box into the flat. Miss S has also explained she 
lives with her sister and shes confident her sister wouldnt have taken her card and 
used it without her consent. Even if I accept Miss Ss card was obtained by one of 
these parties, I need to consider how a fraudster could have obtained Miss Ss PIN. 
Miss S says shes not shared her PIN with anyone and hasnt written it down. And a 
new PIN wasnt sent with the card. Ive also looked at the last time Miss S used her 
card and PIN  which was over a week before the disputed transactions. This means, 
if a fraudster did overlook her PIN, theyd have needed to wait over seven days 
before using it. This seems unlikely, even before I factor in how they managed to get 
hold of Miss Ss card from the post. Overall, I agree with our investigator here  
theres no plausible explanation for how Miss Ss PIN was compromised or a 
fraudster obtained both Miss Ss card and PIN without her noticing. 
No balance enquiries were carried out prior to or during the disputed transactions. 
This doesnt fit with how Id expect a fraudster to behave when obtaining an 
individuals debit card and PIN. And Id also expect them to spend as much money 
and as quickly as possible  which didnt happen in Miss Ss case. 
Miss S said Barclays called her on more than one occasion on the 6 April 2020 
because they were concerned about the account activity. Miss S explains she 
thought it was a scam. I accept this might have been the case. But what surprises 
me, considering how frequently Miss S normally checks her online banking, is that 
Miss S didnt check her online banking sooner when the bank had been in contact 
warning her about fraudulent activity. 
Miss S responded to our investigators view with a number of additional points  Ive 
addressed some of these above. But Ill consider Miss Ss other points, these include that 
Barclays allowed the fraud to happen and the bank advised her not to report the disputed 
transactions and couldnt prevent the pending transactions. Ive considered whether I think 
Barclays should have contacted Miss S sooner about the disputed transactions. But, Im 
afraid I dont agree with Miss S here. Im not satisfied that Id expect Barclays to contact 
Miss S based on the size or type of transactions  I dont think its sufficient to demonstrate 
unusual or suspicious account activity. For the reasons Ive already explained, I also think on 
balance its more likely Miss S authorised the transactions. Therefore even if Barclays had 
contacted Miss S Im not confident she wouldnt have agreed the transactions were 
unauthorised. Ive also considered Miss Ss comments about Barclays failing to block the pending 
transactions and advising her not to report the disputed transactions to the police, therefore 
preventing her getting hold of CCTV. Im aware this will disappointing to Miss S but Im 
satisfied that Barclays dont have the power to stop the pending transactions.  
Its possible that CCTV might have identified someone other than Miss S carrying out the 
transactions. But, Miss S didnt need to carry out the transactions herself in order to be held 
liable for them under the relevant regulations. She can still be held responsible for them if 
she authorised the use of her card. Therefore, even if Miss S gained access to CCTV 
footage I dont think Id be able to conclude that Miss S wasnt involved. I say this because, 
for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im unable to explain how a fraudster gained access to 
Miss Ss card and PIN without her knowledge. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think on balance Miss S authorised the disputed 
transactions. And it follows Barclays can hold Miss S liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman