DRN-4124381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F, as trustees of the D S Will Trust, complain that Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers limited (CDV) delayed investment of the trust fund.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a long-standing relationship with their adviser from CDV. In 2017, 
amongst other requests for personal financial advice, they asked for a suitable investment to 
put the trust fund monies into for the benefit of their children.
In the following two years, Mr and Mrs F continued to ask for suitable investment 
opportunities for the trust fund. CDV explained over the years that it was best sat in cash 
whilst there was some volatility in the markets. In July 2019, CDV withdrew a 
recommendation it had made shortly before. Eventually in October 2019 CDV told Mr and 
Mrs F to speak to an adviser elsewhere  they did so and the funds were invested shortly 
after.
Mr and Mrs F complained that their CDV adviser delayed investment of the trust funds. They 
repeatedly asked for advice and were told there werent any suitable vehicles for the 
investment but have since found out that wasnt the case. Theyve asked for the loss of 
growth over that time on the funds.
CDV upheld their complaint. It said that the adviser ought to have taken action sooner and 
offered £3,600 compensation for the inconvenience.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 April 2023. In this I explained that I intended to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. For clarity, my reasoning from this decision is copied below and 
forms part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator. I intend to uphold this complaint and ask 
CDV to calculate financial loss. Ill explain why.
The evidence available shows Mr and Mrs F asked for advice relating to the trust funds in 
September 2017. The funds stood at £192,000 at this point. It appears that the CDV adviser 
continued to push back discussion of the trust fund investment to later meetings. He talks 
about volatility surrounding Brexit. Mr and Mrs F continued to chase for a recommendation.
In 2018, after chasing again for a recommendation, CDV told Mr and Mrs F that its best the 
funds remain in cash and pushed the discussion back again. Mr and Mrs F confirmed they 
would wait for his proposals. The proposal didnt come. When reading the emails its clear 
that Mr and Mrs F are frustrated  they wanted to invest the funds in the medium term for 
their children to benefit and the funds remained uninvested. Ive thought about whether, at 
this point, Mr and Mrs F ought to have looked elsewhere. But Im mindful that they have a 
long-standing relationship with their CDV adviser and that he was effectively advising them 
not to invest the funds. I cant see any reason as to why CDV advised this when it was very 
clear Mr and Mrs F were looking to invest for growth, but I dont think its unreasonable that 
they followed CDVs advice.
In 2019 CDV advised Mr and Mrs F to invest the funds in an offshore bond. Mr and Mrs F 
got the relevant advice from their solicitor quickly about the trust aspect and asked to go 
ahead. However, shortly after  in July 2019  their CDV adviser said he wasnt comfortable 
with how the platform worked and said he would look at other options. The adviser told Mr 
and Mrs F there was an issue around what was available to invest trust monies in but Ive 
not seen any evidence that was the case. Indeed CDV has later confirmed that there were 
options available. Essentially Mr and Mrs F asked for advice to invest trust monies and Ive 
seen nothing to justify CDVs lack of advice in this respect. Nor any sufficient reasoning to 
keep that sum of money uninvested for so long.
In October 2019 CDV mentioned other potential platforms but advised Mr and Mrs F to find a 
different adviser. They then did and the funds were invested. In my view, this ought to have 
been done a lot earlier. And I can see that CDV has agreed with that in its final response 
letter. Im not persuaded that CDVs reasons for not investing the funds over the two years 
were reasonable in the circumstances when it was very clear Mr and Mrs F wanted the funds 
to be invested rather than sat in cash.
Ive noted that the funds  which later increased in 2019 by an additional £90,000  were 
invested in a high-risk discretionary fund management portfolio with a long-term strategy. 
And that Mr and Mrs Fs new adviser believes they lost out on around £50,000 growth. Given 
they wanted to invest through CDV, I dont think its likely the funds wouldve been placed in 
the same type of portfolio. Im also mindful that the CDV adviser talked about market 
volatility and things being too risky. Theres also notes from conversations relating to the 
risks of investing in commercial property. This has led me to conclude that although I do 
think the funds wouldve been invested in a discretionary managed portfolio, I think its likely 
the risk associated with this would be lower than the high risk long term strategy Mr and Mrs 
F have since taken. 
I think the most pragmatic way to determine the loss caused by CDVs failings is to compare 
the performance of the funds that were sat in a cash savings account to that of a medium 
risk benchmark  details of this Ive set out below. The dates Ive used for the redress below 
relate to when I think CDV ought reasonably to have been able to invest the funds  around 
six weeks after the request for advice. The additional £90,000 ought to have been invested 
when available into the same investment.
Im mindful that CDV has offered £3,600 compensation. As I think CDV needs to calculate 
the loss of growth on the funds, it wouldnt be reasonable for it to pay the additional £3,600 
compensation. If this has already been paid it should be deducted from the overall loss. I do 
note the frustration Mr and Mrs F were caused when trying to invest the trust funds. The 
continual chasing and being told there werent suitable investments available when the 
opposite was true wouldve caused inconvenience and frustration. For this, I intend to direct 
CDV to pay £300 compensation in addition to the financial loss.
I then set out in detail how the redress should be calculated in this complaint.
Responses to provisional decision
Following my provisional decision CDV made some comments around the redress. This led 
to me sending out amended redress to both parties for comments. CDV then made the 
following comments:
- CDV believed the adviser was looking to act in the trustees best interests and defer 
a large single investment when the markets had been volatile following the Brexit 
vote.
- CDV would require details of the trusts new discretionary fund management portfolio 
from inception to date with a transaction and performance history to calculate the 
redress.
Mr and Mrs F made the following comments:- The start date for redress  to determine when the funds wouldve been invested  
shouldnt be 1 November 2017 as this is too late. They originally asked for advice on 
11 May 2017 in an email and the first distribution of the funds was placed into the 
savings account on 2 June 2017. They therefore believe the right date for investment 
redress should be 1 July 2017.
- They have requested the information to show how much interest was paid within the 
savings account and information from their fund manager to demonstrate 
performance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id explained in my provisional decision  extract above which forms part of this decision  
why I felt CDV had made an error in not providing advice to invest the trust funds, so my 
decision remains the same on this point.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Fs point around the start date of the investment. And I 
appreciate they said asked for advice earlier than the September 2017 meeting but didnt 
receive it. However, I think its reasonable that any advice was given during a review 
meeting after the funds were available to invest  which in this case took place in September 
2017. 
I dont think it would be fair to expect CDV to have given advice earlier than this point in 
response to numerous emails particularly as the initial distribution of the funds to be invested 
wasnt until June 2017. As such, my decision remains the same in terms of when I think 
these funds ought to have been invested  which allows time for the advice, legal advice and 
paperwork to be completed after that review meeting took place in September 2017. 
Im upholding this complaint for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. It is 
worth noting that CDV will need the details we have requested from Mr and Mrs F to 
determine the fair level of compensation so we expect these to be provided.
Putting things right
To compensate the trust fairly, CDV must:
Compare the performance of the trust's funds in the savings account with that of the 
benchmark shown below and determine the difference between the fair value and 
the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, CDV must then determine what that amount would now be worth 
had it been invested where the funds now are. So it should work out, with reference 
to the actual portfolio the trust funds are in, what the money would be worth at the 
date of decision had it been invested with the rest of the funds in December 2019.
CDV should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay the trust £300 for the frustration caused by having to chase for a suitable 
recommendation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
D S Will 
Trust funds 
- £192,000Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate it 
ought to 
have been 
invested  1 
November 
2017Date of 
investment 
 December 
20198% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance 
and current 
investment 
details)
D S Will 
Trust funds 
- £90,000Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate it was 
available  
9 April 2019Date of 
investment 
 December 
20198% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance 
and current 
investment 
details)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that the trustees paid into the investment should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
The trustees wanted Capital growth and were willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given the trust's circumstances and risk attitude.
Although the trustees invested with a different firm in a high-risk strategy, this redress 
is based on the funds being invested by CDV which I think would likely be different to 
where the funds are now invested.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers limited must calculate and pay redress in line with the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F as 
trustees of the D S Will Trust to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman