DRN-4500669
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a credit card Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco 
Bank) provided to him. 
He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided as it should have been clear from his 
credit file that he was not in a healthy position to be accepted for it.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr S with a credit card with an initial limit of £250 in October 2021.    
Mr S wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
Tesco Bank terminated Mr S agreement in August 2023.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Tesco Bank had told us. And she thought 
Tesco Bank hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card, or eventually terminating the agreement and applying a default to Mr S credit 
file. So our investigator didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint and reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mr S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr S application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr S would be 
able to make the low monthly repayment due on this credit card. On the other hand Mr S 
says that he shouldnt have been lent to under any circumstances.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr S was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Tesco Bank was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£250 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit 
of £250 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Mr S says that his application was approved through the third-party search engine that he 
used and no checks were carried out prior to his application being agreed. But Ive seen 
records of the information Tesco Bank obtained from Mr S about his income and crucially 
that was on the credit search it carried out. So I dont agree that it didnt carry out any checks 
in the way that Mr S suggests. 
Furthermore, the information gathered doesnt indicate to me that Tesco Bank ought to have 
realised that Mr S didnt have the funds to make the low monthly payment that would be 
required for this credit card. The credit search carried out did indicate that Mr S had some 
existing debts. But the searches didnt suggest that he had experienced any recent 
significant difficulties  in the form of county court judgments (CCJ) or defaulted accounts - 
recorded against him. 
I know that Mr S has referred to having a default recorded against him and has provided his 
credit file showing this. But this default was from more than four years prior to this 
application and even if this had been picked up, given how long it had been since and the 
low limit being offered here, I dont think that this default would have prompted Tesco Bank 
to do significantly more here.
Mr S says that Tesco Bank could have done more to verify his income and expenditure by 
requesting bank statements. Of course, Tesco Bank could have done more and a lender can 
always do more when assessing whether credit is affordable. But I dont need to decide 
whether Tesco Bank could have done more here. What I need to decide here is whether the 
rules, regulations and good industry practice required Tesco Bank to do more  such as 
requesting bank statements from Mr S  in order for its checks to have been proportionate.
And, while I know that Mr S doesnt agree with this, Im afraid that the low monthly payments 
required plus what Tesco Bank already had about Mr S circumstances at the time of 
application, meant that it simply wasnt proportionate for Tesco Bank to obtain bank 
statements in this instance.  
I accept that Mr S says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information Tesco Bank obtained showed. Im sorry that to hear that Mr S has been going 
through a difficult time. That said Tesco Bank did not know about this. There wasnt anything 
in the application provided to indicate this. And I therefore cant reasonably say that these 
are factors that Tesco Bank ought to have taken into account in its assessment.
So overall while I can understand Mr S sentiments and Im sorry to hear about his situation, 
I dont think that Tesco Bank treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with 
his credit card. It carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on the information 
provided which suggested that the credit card was affordable. I now turn to the circumstances behind Mr S credit card account being terminated in      
August 2023. It isnt in dispute that Tesco Bank became aware that Mr S was having 
difficulty making his payments in February 2023. Mr S appears to have had contact with 
Tesco Bank at this time and he explained he was experiencing difficulty making his credit 
card payments and a 30-day breathing space, for Mr S to consider his options moving 
forward, was applied to his account. 
After the breathing space completed, Mr S then agreed a three-month repayment plan in 
April 2023. Mr S was required to make payments of £15 a month for three months before 
this arrangement would be reviewed. However, Mr S didnt make his June 2023 payment 
and arrears continued to build on his account. As a result of not hearing from Mr S, Tesco 
Bank decided to begin taking action to terminate Mr S credit card agreement. as it was 
entitled to do in the circumstances. It issued Mr S with a default notice in July 2023. 
I do sympathise with what Mr S has told us. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have. 
But by the time he was contacted in July 2023, hed broken a repayment plan and had hadnt 
responded to correspondence regarding this. 
So there was no indication Mr S financial situation had improved and I dont think it would 
have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Tesco Bank to hope for the best and ignore 
Mr S obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the credit card had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected 
Tesco Bank to have taken action in the way that it did.
After all while terminating a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the credit card debt. And asking Tesco Bank to remove the default, when Mr S 
didnt repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements and also didnt keep to the terms of 
his repayment plan, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr S interests or that of 
any future lender.
So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Tesco Bank to begin the process of 
terminating Mr S credit card when it did in July 2023 by issuing a default notice. As this is 
the case and Mr S didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or reach a 
suitable arrangement to repay what was owed within a reasonable period of time, Im 
satisfied that Tesco Bank was entitled to withdraw Mr S credit card and record the adverse 
information it did in August 2023.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Tesco Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealing with Mr S. Tesco Bank carried out proportionate checks when 
deciding to provide Mr S with his credit card and didnt act unreasonably when terminating 
the agreement after failing to receive payments. Consequently Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman