DRN-2239721
The complaint
Ms T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Ms T bought the policy in June 2001 at the same time as taking out a loan. Ms T has told us 
the PPI was sold during a meeting. Nationwide says it was sold over the phone. Given the 
evidence provided by Nationwide, I think its more likely Ms T applied for the loan and PPI 
policy over the phone and Ive considered this complaint on that basis.
The policys one-off upfront premium of £994.41 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 60 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The monthly 
loan repayment was £104.73 with the PPI costing an additional £20.83 making the total 
monthly repayment £125.56. 
The policy provided cover for Ms T for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Ms Ts monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time, Ms T was employed as a district supervisor. She has told us she was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying the loan should she be unable 
to work. Ms T has said she had medical conditions at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us information to show that the loan account ended in October 2001.
Ms Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ts representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Ms T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Ms T about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms T and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Ms T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts complaint.
This sale took place in June 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in October 2001. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ts case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Ms Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Ms T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms T suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms T and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms T know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Given the length of time since the sale, understandably, Nationwide no longer have a call 
recording or transcript of the sale. But Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that was sent 
out following the telephone call. This clearly describes PPI as optional and set out the costs 
of PPI separately to that of the loan. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms T knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Ms T is silent on this point.    
Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Ms T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice. Nationwides sales process at the time of the sale was not to provide advice 
during telephone sales and I havent seen anything which shows me that it deviated from 
this sales process during this particular sale.
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms T. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms T to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms T was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms T was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because the loan agreement set out that this was the cover provided. And I think 
Ms T knew how much the policy was going to cost as this information was, in my view, 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Ms T signed.  
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations before Ms 
T agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ts. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms T about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms T has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Ms T? To what extent did Ms T 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms T. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms T 
would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Ms T says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So what   Ms T thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Ms T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already said, the information Ms T was given about cost was clear, including the cost 
of the policy, the interest to be charged, the monthly cost as well as the total cost of the 
policy. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit/limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been. Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Ms T would get back in return in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Ts expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms T thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Ms T knew about or 
ought to have known about before the start date of the policy; or for which Ms T had 
received treatment, advice or was referred for investigation during the 12 months 
before the start date which recurred within 12 months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms T be unable to 
do any job.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Ms T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Ms Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Ms T says she had medical 
conditions when the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had she 
needed time off work because of these conditions, I dont think better information about this 
exclusion would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the conditions occurred in 
1994 and 1999 and although Ms T had to take time off work because of them at those times, 
the information Ive seen suggests that Ms T received treatment for these conditions and 
didnt need to take further time off work because of them. Ms T would still have been able to 
make a claim for other conditions.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms T had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
but also unable to do any job, it might have played into her thinking about what she would 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Ms Ts 
circumstances and the limited other means she had to make her repayments if she wasnt 
working, on balance, I still think she would have been interested in taking out the cover.
The policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Ms T decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms T would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her manage the 
consequences were Ms T made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms T would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ts representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms T would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ts 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms T 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Ms T compensation, as that would put her in a better position than 
she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms T thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide gave Ms T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2001 when providing information about an insurance policy. Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms T and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms T in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman