DRN-1735630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that their broker, Avantia Insurance Limited failed to advise them 
about the terms of the storm peril when purchasing their home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs D made a claim to their insurer following damage to their patio 
doors which they believed was caused by a storm. After reviewing the claim the insurer 
declined to pay it. This was because in accordance with the definition of storm in the policy 
the insurer said there were no storm conditions at the time. The policy defined storm as A 
period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 25mm per 
hour. As the windspeed was recorded as at most 47mph there was deemed to be no 
storm on the day the damage took place so it wasnt covered under storm in the policy.
On referral to this service our investigator advised that as the terms of the policy defined 
what a storm was, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint couldnt be upheld. Mr D pointed out that it was 
likely that the windspeed was much higher than that recorded at the local weather station. 
Nevertheless our investigator thought the insurer had acted reasonably. He did however 
suggest referring the matter back to Avantia as the brokers who set up the policy, on the 
basis that the storm definition should have been drawn to Mr Ds attention. 
Avantia pointed out that the sale was non-advised and that Mr D was told that if he was 
unclear about anything he could get back to it within 14 days. He was advised that the terms 
and conditions were available online.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint he didnt uphold it, as he said the sale was 
non-advised and that Mr D had had the opportunity to ask about anything he was unclear 
about, and was told where he could look at the policy documents..
Mr D didnt accept that. He said he wasnt technically minded and didnt think he should have 
needed to look at the policy documents. He felt that as he had had two previous storm 
claims Avantias adviser should have been alerted to this and advised him of the specific 
definition of a storm in the policy. He felt it was unusual and something he should have had 
pointed out to him.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point I should say that the issue about whether the claim should have been 
covered was a matter for the insurer and has already been dealt with separately by this 
service. So weather reports and any arguments about what the windspeed was arent 
relevant to the complaint against Avantia, who was responsible for setting up the policy but 
not for any decision about the claim.
When Mr D spoke to Avantia when setting up his policy it was because he couldnt complete 
the online application because of a technical hitch. This didnt stop it continuing to be a non-
advised sale. During the telephone call he was specifically told I can provide you
with limited policy information and the full details are available online. Mr D accepted that at 
the time. And as he was told, the full details were online and Mr D had the opportunity to 
look at these within the 14 day period before committing to the policy. In light of his concerns 
about his previous storm claims he could have done this. If he had any difficulty in finding the 
documents he should have advised Avantia at the time.
When selling a policy non-advised we would nevertheless expect the broker to advise the 
consumer about any especially significant or unusual clauses in the policy. But I dont think a 
clause defining storm at windspeeds of over 55mph is particularly unusual or significant. A 
lot of home policies have definitions of storm and whilst that windspeed isnt universally 
used, its quite common and does reflect the minimum level at which a storm is identified on 
the Beaufort wind force Scale. I dont think it needed to be drawn especially to Mr Ds 
attention. 
As for his concern that he had had two previous storm claims I dont think that that should 
have alerted the adviser in particular to advise him about the definition, especially in light of 
my comments in the above paragraph. I think it was sufficient to draw Mr Ds attention to the 
policy and where it could be found online. It was up to Mr D to ask if he had any particular 
concerns. But as Ive said the phone call setting up the policy only took place because the 
online application couldnt be completed.
So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
That said, I note Mr Ds reference to this claim being considered as accidental damage. As 
far as I can see this hasnt been addressed, and Mr D does have such cover under his 
policy. I cant make a direction about that here (as it concerns the insurer, not Avantia) but, if 
he hasnt already done so, I would suggest that he put the claim back to the insurer and ask 
for it to be considered as accidental damage.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman