DRN-4435950
Complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the agreement was unaffordable and so 
shouldnt have been entered into with him. 
Background
In December 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr H with finance for a used motorbike. The 
purchase price of the vehicle was £7,495.00. Mr H paid a deposit of £50 and took out a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £7,445.00. The loan had 
interest and charges of £7,979.19 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to 
be repaid of £15,422.19 (not including Mr Hs deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of £261.41.
Mr H complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr H before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr H provided details of his monthly 
income, which it cross referenced against information from credit reference agencies. It says 
it also carried out credit searches on Mr H which had shown he had previously defaulted on 
credit accounts. But the last of these defaults occurred just over two years before this 
application was made. 
The credit search also showed that Mr H had no county court judgments (CCJ) recorded 
against him and that Mr H had some existing debts but these werent excessive compared to 
his income. In Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr H already owed plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Hs living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr H says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr H and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Hs living costs given what the credit search Moneybarn carried out showed. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to take further steps to find out more about 
Mr Hs regular living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Hs 
living costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr H has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his visible committed regular living expenses and existing credit 
commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Hs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information he provided to Moneybarn showed. For example, Mr H says that 
his income was inflated by a bonus that he received and that he owed council tax and 
housing benefit. 
But a lender is only able to make a decision based on what it has, or at the very least is likely 
to have. And Moneybarns cross checking of Mr Hs income wont have shown that he 
received a bonus. Furthermore, the council tax and housing benefit owed didnt show up on 
the credit searches too. So this wasnt visible information and Mr H chose not to volunteer 
any of this at the time he was applying for finance to purchase his motorbike.
So while I do appreciate that it might have proved more difficult for Mr H to make his 
payments than hed anticipated, the crucial thing here is that I dont think that asking for 
more information would have alerted Moneybarn to what Mr H has said or prevented it from 
lending in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr H did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr H. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the remaining payments on the agreement and Mr H is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman