DRN-2909614
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc reviewed his bank account and wont release money held 
in the account to him. And then closed his account.
What happened
Mr L had an account with TSB. In December 2019, three payments totalling £8,500 were 
paid into the account. TSB decided to review Mr Ls account and asked him for information 
about the payments.  At the time, the balance of Mr Ls account was just under £3,000.
Mr L explained that he was self-employed, and that the money was three instalments, paid 
up front,  for building work hed agreed to complete at a property owned by Mr K. He 
provided TSB with a copy of a quote dated 16 January 2020, which detailed the work he was 
due to complete. 
TSB said the invoice wasnt enough to show that Mr L was entitled to the funds. And 
questioned why the invoice was dated after the payments had been made to Mr L. TSB said 
Mr L hadnt shown tax was being included in the costs or that hed used the money to buy 
any materials. It said from looking at his account activity most of the money had been spent 
on gambling once it had credited Mr Ls account. In response, Mr L explained that Mr K had 
expanded the work that he wanted done at his property as and when more problems had 
been discovered. So, the job kept changing and said VAT would be added onto the final 
invoice for all the work carried out once it was all done. He agreed hed used some of the 
money to fund gambling, but said it was up to him how he spent his money. And he needed 
the bank to release the funds so that he could finish the work for Mr K. TSB said Mr L 
needed to provide more information. 
Mr L gave TSB copies of Mr Ks bank account showing where the money had originated 
along with a letter from Mr K explaining that hed contracted Mr L to do building work at his 
home.  Mr L also gave certified copies of schedule for the extended works and costs hed 
agreed with Mr K dated 11 and 24 December 2019. TSB reviewed everything Mr L had 
provided but said there were discrepancies between what Mr L had told them and what was 
shown on the paperwork  in particular how the VAT had and would be calculated. So, it 
didnt release the money to Mr L. And decided to close his account. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service where an investigator 
considered it. The investigator said TSB hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked 
Mr Ls account and asked him for information about the payments. And that it was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations in not releasing the funds. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.  
Mr L disagreed. He wants the bank to release the money its holding and has given the bank 
everything he can to show hes entitled to the funds. He said he needs the money to pay his 
rent and pay labourers to finish the work at Mr Ks house.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of Mr Ls submissions regarding his complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block Mr Ls access to the payments made into his 
account in December 2019. As the investigator has already explained, TSB has extensive 
legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on 
accounts and ask customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial 
crime such as fraud and address tax avoidance, evasion and noncompliance in all its forms. 
The terms of Mr Ls accounts also permit TSB to block payments, accounts and ask its 
customers for information.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for TSB to block Mr Ls account and ask him for information about the three payments which 
had been paid into his account by Mr K. TSB has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Having looked at the activity on Mr Ls account 
statements I can see that the three payments were out of character. Mr L had not previously 
received any large payments (apart from accounts linked to him), there were no other 
payments received from Mr K and the majority of the spend on the account were payments 
to a variety of online gambling sites. 
Ive looked at the paperwork Mr L has provided, including the letter from Mr K, surveyors 
report, two quotes and invoice.  And I can see from the paperwork that the work Mr L said 
hed been engaged to do for Mr K did appear to turn into a much bigger job once some 
structural issues had been uncovered by the surveyor, which are detailed in the report. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr Ls explanation is plausible. However, this doesnt 
explain why Mr L produced the quote for £8,500 after the money had already credited his 
account in December 2019 and didnt include VAT. And it doesnt make sense if Mr K was 
paying Mr L to complete building works, why Mr L would then spend most of that money on 
gambling.
Ive not seen any evidence to show what work Mr L completed for Mr K, such as invoices for 
materials, labouring costs or a final bill. So, I can understand why TSB had concerns about 
the payments and wanted to find out more about them in order to ensure it was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr L inconvenience, I 
cant say TSB did anything wrong when it blocked his account and asked him to provide 
information about the money paid into his account in December  2019. 
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he wants the money totalling just under £3,000 that was 
paid into his account released to him. It maybe that Mr L can now provide more information 
about the funds, such as a final invoice including a full VAT breakdown. But, in the 
circumstances, I can understand why TSB didnt consider Mr L had adequately explained his 
entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr L unfairly when it decided 
not to release the money to him. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ls account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
TSB closed Mr Ls bank with 60 days notice.  So, Im satisfied that the bank has acted in line 
with the account terms and relevant regulations. And I cant say the bank has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr L unfairly when it closed his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman