DRN-4324910
The complaint
Mr N says problems in making a payment from his current account held with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc meant he missed out on profiting from an investment he intended to make.
What happened
Mr N tried to make an international payment of $2,600 from his HSBC account in late 
October 2022.  He said this was to make an investment. Unfortunately, the payment wasnt 
processed so no investment was made. The payment wasnt returned to Mr N until early 
February 2023. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions Mr N complained to it, saying it had prevented him from 
making a significant profit on his intended investment. He also said HSBC had held onto his 
money for too long before returning it to him. HSBC initially rejected the complaint, saying it 
was entitled to carry out certain checks on payments and that this payment had been 
legitimately refused as a result. HSBC accepted the funds should have been returned to 
Mr N sooner.
Still unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr N referred his complaint to this service. 
Subsequently, HSBC acknowledged it had delayed in returning his money to him. It offered 
to pay him £150 as compensation for the delay plus interest at 8% on the sum from when it 
should have been returned to the date it was returned. Our investigator considered the offer 
was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings. He felt the offer was insufficient given the 
financial impact on him of the errors made by HSBC. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require HSBC to increase its existing offer. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Mr N feels strongly that HSBC was responsible for him being unable to 
proceed with the investment he says he intended to make. But I cant see that HSBC did 
anything wrong in preventing the payment out of Mr Ns account from being processed. 
I say that because all UK banks, including HSBC, have certain responsibilities to protect 
themselves and their customers from fraudulent activity. As its personal banking terms and 
conditions set out, HSBC can refuse to accept or make payments in certain circumstances. 
These include, among other things, where there may be a breach of legal requirements or 
regulations or if theres suspected fraudulent or criminal activity on an account. I note that 
the payment Mr N was making was unusual to an extent since it was being made to an 
overseas third-party. And the amount wasnt an insignificant one. I can understand why 
HSBC would have wanted to check the instruction was legitimate before processing it. 
Even if I felt HSBC was at fault for the payment not being processed  which, for the reasons 
given, I dont  Id also need to be satisfied that this caused Mr N to miss out on making a 
profit hed have otherwise made. Only then would it be fair for me to consider making an 
award for financial loss in this regard.
However, I havent seen anything in the available evidence to demonstrate the extent of the 
losses Mr N claimed to have suffered. So, I cant fairly ask HSBC to do anything differently in 
relation to this part of the complaint.
That said, it was still for HSBC to get Mr Ns money back to him without delay once the 
payment wasnt going to be processed. This is where its clear HSBC could have done better 
and Im glad to see HSBC now accepts that.    
For a start, Mr N was denied the use of the money for more than three months. Broadly, I 
believe HSBCs offer to pay 8% interest on the sum for that period puts him back in the 
financial position hed have been in in the absence of the delay. Thats likely what I would 
have awarded had HSBC not made the offer in the first place.
Im in no doubt that being without the money for such a period of time, and the trouble he 
was put to in trying to retrieve the sum, negatively impacted on Mr N. Im satisfied that hes 
due compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. I also believe that HSBCs 
offer of £150 for that aspects fair and reasonable in all the circumstances including this 
services published approach to such losses.
Putting things right
As per its offer, HSBC should pay Mr N simple annual interest at the rate of 8% on the 
amount he was due, calculated from the date it should have been returned to him to the date 
it was returned to him. HSBC should also pay Mr N a total of £150 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right for Mr N as explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman