DRN-3462890
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr T is represented 
in this complaint.
What happened
In late 2013 Mr T was a self-employed business owner approaching age 58, earning about 
£25,000pa. He was married with no dependants. Information on a later application form Mr T 
completed for a discretionary fund manager said he had a property worth £750,000 and 
£35,000 of other assets which provided £10,000pa of extra income. He had an existing 
pension arrangement with LV=.
He believes his existing pension adviser introduced him to an agent of CMIM who 
recommended he invested in TRG. They came round to his house 3-4 times, showed lots of 
projections and forecasts with websites that looked legitimate, said that they were investing 
themselves and the returns were guaranteed. (We know that CMIM had signed an introducer 
agreement with a firm called Your Choice Pensions (YCP), and other consumers invested 
through that firm, although Mr T doesnt recall that name.)
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Ts pension, on 1 November 2013 a new 
employer was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. Mr T would later have 
signed an employment contract with that company, and on 10 December 2013 he signed 
terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for 
the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Mr T also signed an indicative investment form, stating that his intention was to invest 70% 
of his pension in TRG and 30% in CMIMs discretionary fund management (DFM) service. 
He also completed an application form for the DFM service and US withholding tax forms on 
10 December.  My understanding is that YCP or its sister company (Consumer Money 
Matters) would then have requested a transfer pack and discharge form from LV=, with Mr 
Ts authority.
On 26 January 2014 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Ts new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to set up 
the scheme was £750+VAT, followed by £500+VAT annually. 
I understand from other transfers of this nature that CGL would then have requested a 
transfer of Mr Ts LV= pension policy using forms signed by Mr T, and most likely provided 
by YCP or its sister company. Also based on other similar transfers, at around this time a 
standard covering letter with CGLs branding would have been sent to Mr T. This said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in 
Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
under your instruction for your consideration.
CMIM has sent us a copy of what the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear Trustee 
letter - would have said. The letter does not refer to Mr T by name and mentions that the 
business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort.
You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should be 
held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification 
carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities 
and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as 
against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.
The letter went on to propose CMIMs Global Growth Portfolio (GGP) to provide the suggested 
diversification into other, lower risk investments. Subsequently, CGL would have asked Mr T to 
sign a letter confirming his instructions to invest in TRG were based on the above advice. Again, 
the standard wording in use by CGL at that time read as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately 
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
(b) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
On 30 April 2014 CGL received a transfer of £74,547 from LV=. It wrote back to Mr T on 1 
May and 15 July 2014 to confirm receipt of his investment instructions and that £39,050 and 
£33,365.21 had been invested into TRGs Llana Beach Hotel resort and CMIMs DFM 
service respectively. So, these differ from the 70/30 split originally intended.
My understanding from other cases this service has seen is that discounts were offered on 
the purchase, paid back to investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa for a maximum period 
of the first two years  after which rental income was expected to be payable when the resort 
opened. The UK limited company had entered into separate contracts with developers to 
build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it.
In the event, Mr T was only invested in the CMIM portfolio for a short time. He was advised 
by a third party in 2015 to switch to Organic Investment Management, as part of which he 
specified a medium high attitude to risk and a growth objective, over a time frame until 2021. 
Following Organics demise, this portfolio is now managed by Philip J Milton & Company. On 
Mr Ts 2019 SSAS statement it was valued at £41,449.
Mr T complained to CMIM in around September 2019 that the underlying investment in the 
Cape Verde Property was a wholly unsuitable asset for such a pension scheme for me. 
Whilst I recognise that various disclaimers existed, these do not avoid negligence and 
culpability in relation to the engagement and promotion of wholly unsuitable assets within the 
Pension Scheme. He also complained that the SSAS itself was unsuitable for him.
CMIM responded that it did not have an opinion on the suitability of a SSAS for any 
individual, but it considered the advice it gave him as trustee was complaint with s.36 of 
PA95. It said its advice was generalised but heavily focused on the risks, warning trustees 
that TRG wasnt suitable for cautious investors. 
Mr T referred the complaint to this service, adding that he was lied to about the returns from 
TRG. He told our investigator that he wanted to earn some money safely out of his pension. 
He added that he was told it would be possible to sell the property at no loss when he 
wanted to withdraw his money  and although he was encouraged to invest his whole 
pension in TRG he thought it was sensible not to put all his eggs in one basket. It was 
described as an opportunity that he had to take now, as he wouldnt get another chance. 
CMIM has made a number of submissions, both on this case and during the course of very 
similar complaints for other individuals, some of which I have already decided some time 
ago. I summarise all of its points below:
It understands Mr Ts complaint to be about the TRG investment within his SSAS.Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. It entered into an introducing 
agent agreement with YCP. Its only financial benefit arose out of the opportunity to 
promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It attended numerous meetings with the 
marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky and only appropriate when considered as part of a 
diverse portfolio where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its DFM 
services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk portfolio of 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr T or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to its DFM service. A full suitability 
check relating to the specific trustee was only carried out at that point. To the best of 
its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter appeared to be very close to the 
Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was placed on this 
letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they also had their 
own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
CMIM isnt responsible for how Mr Ts DFM was invested after he moved to Organic.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Mr T. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The investigators view of 15 November 2021
The investigator considered that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
CMIM carried out the regulated activity of advising on investments in respect of a 
collective investment scheme (TRG). Mr T signed terms of business for it to provide 
that advice.
The dear Trustee letter also amounted to a financial promotion, which is restricted 
under s.238 of FSMA unless an exemption applies. No valid exemption appeared to be 
available to CMIM in this case, meaning the promotion was unlawful (unless it advised 
against investing  which wouldnt amount to a promotion).CMIMs advice was inconsistent with the FCAs principles, COBS 2.1.1R (the clients 
best interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading)
It was also difficult to see how the advice achieved the purpose of s.36 of PA95, 
because that envisaged a suitability assessment specific to Mr Ts SSAS and therefore 
a personal recommendation. It would also have been consistent with the FCAs 
principles and rules for CMIM to make such a personal recommendation.
In all respects, CMIM should have realised that investing such a high proportion of 
Mr Ts wealth in TRG was unsuitable and contrary to regulatory expectations for UCIS 
advice  particularly for someone who had little investment experience.
Mr T wasnt actively looking to switch his pension at the time, so if CMIM had advised 
against investing in TRG, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer either.
CMIM has responded by way of letters covering several complaints simultaneously. It didnt 
agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous admissions. 
The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr T did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid  funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr T were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr T to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr T to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Ts loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Ts losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr T to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address when I reach that point in 
my decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr T to invest in TRG?
I should start by saying Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of 
advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr T would be participating in a (named) pooled property scheme 
where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Ts investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it attended numerous 
preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the 
investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. However, advice 
given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of COBS  
the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It evidently didnt believe 
(mistakenly) that advice being given for s.36 of PA95 was regulated at all. It said in the 
terms of business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account 
your personal financial circumstances. And the end of its dear Trustee letter it reminds 
Mr T that it hadnt assessed those circumstances. But my consideration of this point doesnt 
end there, as what the firm intended or believed to be the case doesnt determine what rules 
apply. Firms can be mistaken. And COBS 2.1.2R sets out that:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal 
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented 
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. That stands to reason, as one of the objectives of 
regulation is consumer protection  and the perception of the firms advice to a client is 
equally important as the actual mechanics of how the advice is given.
I consider I should therefore approach this from the point of view of what a reasonable 
person in Mr Ts position would have perceived from CMIMs advice. That involves weighing 
up everything, including that CMIM told Mr T it wasnt making a personal recommendation; 
Mr T knew he hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it. I accept CMIMs point that this fact-finding would only have happened if Mr T went on to make 
use of its DFM service. My understanding is that Mr T did invest with CMIM, and although its 
not clear when (or if) any further assessment of his circumstances took place, Im persuaded 
that it would have been after the dear Trustee letter.
On balance, I think Mr T ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt for 
him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as an 
appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr T felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have 
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had personally 
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly 
a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
However, the absence of a personal recommendation makes no difference to whether the 
regulated activity of advising on investments was being carried out  or what advice (in the 
non-personalised sense) was contained in the dear Trustee letter. And CMIM encouraging 
Mr T to seek further independent advice doesnt negate the advice its letter already 
contained. Otherwise that begs the question of why its advice was being provided at all.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. It remains open to me to consider whether CMIMs actions were consistent 
with the regulators wider principles (set out at PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules 
that arent in chapter 9. Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note 
that as TRG was a UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr T, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr T to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr T had already decided to invest in TRG  he had 
completed an indicative investment form  so the dear Trustee letter would not have been 
pivotal in his thinking. I dont necessarily agree with that, but more importantly I dont think 
its relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further 
at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients  and I count Mr T in that 
category  to draw. I say this in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the  long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify the TRG investment with a DFM arrangement;
- no clarification being provided for the trustee to understand whether they met this 
cautious definition  and to counteract the tendency they may otherwise have to 
follow the herd.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr T to take his own 
regulated advice; as such advice would have analysed his own risk appetite. But I think this 
misses the point. If that was what CMIM considered Mr T should do, it shouldnt have been 
commenting in a way that allowed him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if 
he wasnt cautious or needing short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence 
that the dear Trustee letter was written in this way: CMIM stood to gain business from being 
able to provide DFM services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment. 
It would have been apparent to CMIM at the time that third parties had quite a lot of influence 
over what the trustees did; this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely 
to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Mr T to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how 
much attention Mr T paid to it, CGL would have expected him to sign an investment 
instruction declaring that he had regard for CMIMs advice. 
There was, of course, a reason for that: he was required under PA95 to consider advice 
before making the investment. And whether or not Mr T was simply signing where a third 
party told him shouldnt in my view have diminished the importance that this step should 
have held to CMIM  or that it ought to have realised its advice was an inducement that 
meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the view that both YCP 
and CGL were inducing Mr T to invest because of vested interests, yet it was not. That 
simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R. The new exemption for solicited advice 
only allowed a promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointed 
representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation status, who has a 
relevant business relationship with the firm.
The wording of the exclusion itself therefore suggests that advising on investments could 
also amount to a promotion  given that a promotion did not have to be targeted to a particular individual  and even where a third party had previously promoted the investment. 
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (although 
didnt make a personal recommendation). 
Did Mr T qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mr T is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. This leaves the range of 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R. 
We dont know precisely when the dear Trustee letter was sent to Mr T, and CGL appears 
not to have kept copies. But it would have been between 10 December 2013 (when Mr T 
signed CMIMs terms of business) and in all likelihood given how much time elapsed, before 
30 April 2014 (when his funds arrived from LV=). On the balance of probability I also find it 
more likely that he was sent the letter after 1 January 2014, when FCA changes to clamp 
down on UCIS promotion had tightened the exemption Ive quoted above. 
YCPs introducer agreement with CMIM would always have made the new exemption 
unavailable because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting the advice. But 
even if Im wrong on the timing of the dear Trustee letter, I think CMIM should have known 
that the transaction was likely to complete after the well-publicised 1 January 2014 rule 
changes. And in any event the former version of the exemption still required Mr T to be A 
personfor whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the 
collective investment scheme is suitable. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont consider 
CMIM could reasonably have concluded that TRG was suitable in this case  for reasons Ill 
set out later in this decision. 
I also cant see that any of the other exemptions were available  not least because Mr T 
doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor and didnt have any 
of the other professions or roles specified. The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore 
draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully promoted the TRG investment to Mr T, in 
contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought reasonably to have been aware that 
other parties who promoted the investment to Mr T previously were likely also in 
contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves unregulated and/or couldnt rely on 
a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr T paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr T to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr T thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr T would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice. 
Mr T was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he was getting an 
appropriately qualified opinion on whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that 
Mr T was misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. 
And at a fundamental level, I dont think Mr Ts inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear 
Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above: 
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr T) that CMIM considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr T to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it. 
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Ts investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments. During the process of Mr T being advised the 
regulator was also publicising its position (set out at COBS 4.12.5G) that promotion in the 
context of advice had to be more than simply generic and non-personalised.
In any event, its just as difficult to see it was possible for advice that was stated in the terms 
of business to enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of 
PA95 not to be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the secondary Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) 
Regulations 2005 dont cover Mr Ts SSAS. But regulation 7 does, and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in investment instructions we know CGL required all  
SSAS members to sign. And I cant fairly say it was possible for Mr T to obtain advice on 
whether TRG was suitable, and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of 
his SSAS, without a recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements 
and objectives of that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if 
YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later 
heard from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service (as happened in this case). 
That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether 
thats a personal recommendation or not). 
In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1. Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr T at all; or
2. Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr T, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Note that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not amount to 
promotion and so the restrictions on promotion wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr T directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr T, 
if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was in 
favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or indicated it would make 
direct recommendations against investing, I accept its possible that those parties would 
have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome. 
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr T was required to take 
couldnt just be given by any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given 
by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected; and the consequences giving advice in favour of 
investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising 
Mr T at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to 
the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr T to 
satisfy the regulators expectations and those reasonably implied by PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It 
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up the majority of a SSAS was 
plainly unsuitable for an inexperienced investor. Knowing what we do about Mr Ts situation at the time, he could ill afford to take the very high degree of risk this entailed given that the 
SSAS was his sole pension provision.
There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property 
development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks 
 to counter that presumption. Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being 
introduced to Mr T by other parties was in order to invest in TRG. I think Mr T would likely 
have received CMIMs dear Trustee letter before LV= sent his funds to the SSAS: having 
agreed terms of business in December 2013 CMIM certainly had enough time to ensure its 
advice was communicated by then. So I need to consider how Mr T would have acted, if 
CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG. 
Im mindful that could have led to a recommendation for DFM on his whole portfolio. But 
demonstrably, Mr T would then have obtained advice that wasnt in favour of investing in 
TRG  so I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in him 
proceeding to transfer to the SSAS on that basis. To secure the TRG investment they 
needed advice in favour of it to comply with PA95 and as I said above I think its reasonable 
to conclude that other regulated firms should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a UCIS would be committing an 
actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such a firm difficult to find, and 
their advice would in any event carry less credibility: pension providers like LV= would have 
introduced checks required by the Pensions Regulator after 2013 to reduce the possibility of 
pension liberation, creating the risk that the ceding scheme would question him about what 
advice hed received.
Ive taken into account that Mr T didnt instigate the advice here. He believes the referral had 
come from his existing adviser, but from what I can see in the end he was dealing with other 
agents, and not that adviser. So Im not particularly concerned about a strong relationship of 
trust being built up here. As CMIM itself realises, it was brought on board to legitimise 
Mr Ts investment in TRG. But its advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It 
should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for Mr T. 
Once that opinion had been given I cant safely say it could easily have been undone by 
any attempts to refer Mr T to other advisers. Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that any 
further attempts to secure his TRG investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs 
advice. As a result, Mr T would have had a reason to (and had time to) abort any request in 
the pipeline for his LV= funds to be transferred, and he would have remained in the LV= 
plan.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Ts losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Mr T intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational 
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a 
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and 
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr T has chosen to bring this 
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Ts own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr T as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr T would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him 
CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that 
on the balance of probabilities Mr T would still have gone ahead with transferring his pension 
in order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly. 
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mr T would not have gone ahead. I think 
the effect of CMIM placing a barrier in Mr Ts way would have been more likely to deter his 
ultimate investment than not. I think its likely he would have heeded the proper advice he 
was told he would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM. If an investigator has taken a 
different view on causation on another complaint, then either party may refer that view to an 
ombudsman. I may not have agreed with that view.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr T in the position he would have been in, 
had Mr T not gone ahead with the transfer from LV= to the SSAS at all.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact LV= to obtain a 
notional value for Mr Ts policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that it continued 
to be invested in the same funds that it was at the point it was transferred out. As a condition 
of accepting this decision, Mr T will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this 
information. CMIM should check that no tax-free cash or income payments have been taken 
 if they have, the gross amounts of these payments will need to be allowed for accordingly.
The actual value of Mr Ts CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the CMIM DFM 
funds) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from this notional value to 
arrive at Mr Ts initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding administration charges yet to 
be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That may be the case with the TRG holding in the CGL 
SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should 
include anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy those investments from CGL SSAS it should 
give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that Mr T 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS and 
move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. Third 
parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So to 
provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of 
future SSAS administration fees at the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to 
allow a reasonable period of time for the CGL SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not 
actually prepared to (or unable to) buy the investment from the SSAS. I also cannot anticipate whether TRG will be permitting changes of ownership because 
clearly legal processes would be involved. But to the extent that this is possible, if CMIM 
believes that the investment has value then it can benefit by buying the investment out of the 
SSAS. But if CMIM is not taking ownership of the investment, it may ask Mr T instead to 
provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may 
receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr Ts losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mr T to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax 
protections or allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay that amount 
direct to Mr T. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. But if 
he is yet to take his tax-free cash sum, the adjustment would only apply to 75% of the 
compensation, giving a composite reduction of 15% overall.
CMIM must also pay Mr T £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
If LV= cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for Mr Ts 
investment instead, and use it in the same way in its calculations. Whilst Mr T was nearing 
his sixties at the time of advice and getting near to retirement, he had a significant pension 
fund. I think his inclination to invest in TRG and also to select a higher risk level for his 
Organic portfolio  whilst not solely determinative of his attitude to risk, as they were 
influenced by advice  do suggest a likely willingness to take some risk.
Taking all of this into account, and only if LV= cannot provide a notional value  which 
remains the preferred method of redressing this complaint  I consider that the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Index on a Total Return basis would be the appropriate benchmark 
to use in this case. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it is called 
an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to
allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr T's circumstances and likely risk attitude.
It doesnt mean that Mr T would specifically have made investments that exactly mirrored the 
return on this index. For that reason CMIM should not be deducting investment costs or 
other charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds Mr T 
would have remained invested in with LV= would typically have performed broadly in line 
with this benchmark; notwithstanding the charges (which would have been lower than the 
SSAS in any event). It is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Mr Ts overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment. But Ive reached 
the conclusion that Mr T would have had no reason to be transferring his pension from LV= 
at all, but for CMIMs failings  and I dont think it likely LV= would have permitted DFM in 
the type of plan Mr T held.
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mr T back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider as these were either automatic or were encouraged 
by the very same third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with (in a way which 
did not act in the best interests of Mr T and its other clients).
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Ts loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Ts rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and award compensation as set out in the Putting things right 
section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman