DRN-1767026
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed them to take a 
mortgage with it in 2014 to buy a house that theyve now found should have been deemed 
unsuitable security.
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with NatWest for a property they were looking 
to buy. When the valuation was arranged, they opted just for the basic mortgage valuation 
report.
The valuation was carried out on 6 February 2014 and Mr and Mrs Bs house purchase 
completed in April 2014.
The valuation report said (with PRC meaning precast reinforced concrete);
The property is understood to have been repaired under the PRC Home scheme. The 
certificate has not been seen. This should be checked and confirmed by legal advisers.
We can confirm that the property meets the core requirements of the lender.
Unfortunately, the mortgage completed without Mr and Mrs Bs legal advisers checking and 
confirming there was a certificate in place, and NatWest overlooked it. A further valuation 
was undertaken in 2018 when Mr and Mrs B applied for a further advance. Again, the PRC 
construction was picked up, and again NatWest failed to check there was a certificate in 
place so the further advance completed.
It was only when Mr and Mrs B applied for another further advance in 2019, and the third 
valuation was carried out, that NatWest asked for a copy of the certificate. The document 
Mr and Mrs B provided wasnt sufficient and so the further advance couldnt proceed.
In response to a complaint from Mr and Mrs B, NatWest said it would waive the early 
repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage so they could move the mortgage to another 
lender if they wanted to do so. It also paid them £500 compensation.
Our investigator thought the resolution from NatWest was fair. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr and Mrs B have said;
[NatWest] had a duty of care to follow up on the valuation that they had done at time of 
purchase regarding the PRC status and certificate that was required to purchase the 
house and advice us that this property would be problematic to mortgage with certain 
lenders including them.
But thats not the case. The valuation that was carried out was for NatWests purposes only. 
There was no duty of care or obligation on the part of NatWest to advise Mr and Mrs B about 
the quality of property they had chosen to buy. The valuation was undertaken simply to allow 
NatWest to decide if it was willing to lend money against the property. This is covered in the 
valuation report notes;
This report is in the format required by Natwest Bank pic (*the Bank). A copy of the 
report has been provided to you as a matter of courtesy for information only and should 
not be disclosed by you to any third party. In the event of such disclosure, no 
responsibility will be accepted either by the Bank or the valuer to the third party.
The report has been obtained from an independent valuer and has been prepared solely 
to enable the Bank to consider what advance (if any) may be made on the security of this 
property.
The report is not a building survey or report on condition and may not mention defects 
that may be important to you or which may be revealed by a detailed survey. If any 
repair(s) and their estimated cost(s) are indicated in the report you should satisfy yourself 
as to the cost(s) of such repair(s) by detailed contractors' estimates before proceeding 
with the purchase. Any retention figure shown in the report or any offer of advance is 
made for mortgage purposes only and is not necessarily the actual cost of completing the 
work.
The valuation figure is for mortgage purposes only and will not necessarily represent the 
purchase valuation of the property.
The report is by the valuer to the Bank and has been prepared in accordance with the 
RICS residential mortgage valuation specification. No warranty is given or implied by the 
Bank or the valuer that the statements or opinions expressed or implied in the report are 
accurate or valid, or (in the case of a purchase) that the purchase price is reasonable. 
The Bank recommends that you obtain your own report to satisfy yourself as to the 
property's condition and value. Otherwise, you will proceed entirely at your own risk, as 
neither the Bank nor the valuer accepts any responsibility to you for the content of the 
report.
 It was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor to ensure the requirements of the 
valuation were met The property is understood to have been repaired under the PRC Home 
scheme. The certificate has not been seen. This should be checked and confirmed by legal 
advisers. Whilst NatWest should have checked that had been done, the actual omission 
was on the part of the solicitor. I understand Mr and Mrs B have made a separate complaint 
to their solicitor and as a result of that their solicitor paid for a PRC inspection to be 
undertaken which showed the property had been repaired under the scheme, and for a 
retrospective certificate to be issued to show that.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have bought the house if theyd known about this issue, but 
we cant unwind that. Mr and Mrs B have said they may struggle to remortgage, or sell, the 
property in the future but we cant award them compensation for something that may or may 
not happen. Once Mr and Mrs B obtained the certificate, they were able to remortgage to a 
well-known high street lender and Ive no reason to believe that wont be the case again in 
future, either for remortgaging or when a potential buyer wants to obtain a mortgage for the 
property. 
NatWest waived the ERC to allow them to complete that remortgage, and the product fee 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the new mortgage was their choice to pay to obtain a better interest 
rate. Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business. Our awards 
arent punitive. Having considered everything, Im satisfied the £500 already paid to 
Mr and Mrs B is fair in all the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied National Westminster Bank Plc fairly 
resolved the complaint by waiving the ERC and paying £500 compensation. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman