DRN-4455689
The complaint
Mrs M complains about poor customer service from Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited and about the length of time taken to assess a terminal illness claim she and her late 
husband made under their life insurance policy. Mrs M also thinks she and her husband 
should have received a higher pay-out.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I shall give just a brief 
summary here. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a decreasing term life assurance policy in August 2008. Mr M was 
initially diagnosed with cancer in 2017. But in August 2021 a scan indicated disease 
recurrence and Mr M was told that his cancer was terminal. Very sadly, Mr M died in July 
2022. 
Mr and Mrs M had submitted a claim for terminal illness benefit in September 2021. The 
claim was accepted in April 2022 and L&G paid Mr and Mrs M £88,690 the following month. 
This included one months refund of premium. By this time, Mr and Mrs M had raised three 
complaints about delays and poor service. 
In three complaint response letters, L&G provided explanations about the progression of the 
claim between September 2021 and February 2022, February 2022 and April 2022, and 
April 2022 until the claim was paid. L&G acknowledged Mr and Mrs M had been given wrong 
information and received an email that was insensitively worded. It accepted timescales 
shouldve been quicker, particularly given the nature of the claim. L&G acknowledged its 
mistakes had caused trouble and upset. And it apologised for the additional delay in paying 
the claim. In total, L&G offered £850 compensation for distress and inconvenience, which 
was later accepted, without prejudice to the complaint Mr and Mrs M had brought to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In October 2023, our investigator issued her opinion on the complaint. She didnt think L&G 
needed to do anything more to resolve things. She said L&G had acknowledged and 
apologised for mistakes being made and had paid Mr and Mrs M compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused. And she didnt think L&G was in a position to assess the 
claim before April 2022 as it wasnt responsible for delays in receiving a specialist report 
from Mr Ms oncologist.  
Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mrs M didnt think 
thered been any recognition of the significant impact on her husband, whose health 
deteriorated as the claim progressed. And she disagreed that L&G werent in a position to 
assess the claim until April 2022. She thought she and Mr M shouldve been paid the value 
of the policy when they first claimed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. The circumstances of this complaint are 
sensitive and I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs M. Im sorry about that. Ill explain 
my reasons, focusing on the key points and evidence I consider material to my decision. 
Its not disputed that by August 2021 Mr Ms cancer was terminal and his treatment options 
limited. The issue here is when Mr M met the specific policy definition for terminal illness. Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy defines terminal illness as:
If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly 
progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our 
Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & 
General will make an advance payment of the Sum Assured payable for the policy 
year in which the Terminal Illness Benefit is paid.
So the policy required both an attending consultant and L&Gs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) 
 himself a consultant medical oncologist  to be satisfied that life expectancy was no 
greater than 12 months.
Ive reviewed the claim and medical evidence carefully. I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
form gave the primary doctor as Miss B, a consultant general and colorectal surgeon. The 
details of three other surgeons were also provided. 
The evidence shows that by the beginning of September 2021 it was clear further surgery 
was not advised and the only option for Mr M was palliative chemotherapy. Clinic letters from 
the surgeons treating Mr M support the terminal nature of his cancer, but do not comment on 
prognosis. Consultant surgeon Mr D suggested Mr M see his local oncologist with a view to 
further systemic treatment.
Dated October 2021, Miss B provided a brief letter to L&G which concluded by saying;
[Mr Ms] recurrence is not amenable to surgical resection and therefore will be 
treated with palliative chemotherapy. I support his claim that this constitutes a 
terminal illness.
The letter did not comment on prognosis. But Miss B did provide an opinion on prognosis in 
a subsequent specialist report, requested by L&G and received in November 2021. The 
following questions and answers are relevant:
Q: Please comment on your patients prognosis in terms of life expectancy?
A: Many months  this will depend on response to chemotherapy.
Q: What factors have you taken into account when estimating your patients life 
expectancy?
A: Performance status, duration since initial diagnosis, lack of co-morbidities.
Q: Has your patient been added to the GSF pathway or referred for best supportive 
care?A: No
Q: Is there any further treatment planned?
A: Palliative chemotherapy. Average prognosis with multiple lines of chemotherapy = 
24-30 months.  
Following receipt of this report, L&G sought further specialist oncological evidence, initially 
writing to Dr M, a consultant medical oncologist, in late November 2021. The claims notes 
evidence considerable difficulties in contacting Dr M or her medical secretary and in 
obtaining a report. At a clinic appointment in mid-February, Dr M confirmed to Mr M that 
shed completed a report, but L&G had no record of receiving a document and further 
attempts to obtain clarity on the date of sending, or forwarding of the original document, 
were not successful. 
 
Im not aware that the report Dr M referred to has ever come to light. However, on 7 April 
2022, L&G received a report from Dr M, dated 21 February 2022. The report gave an 
overview of the progression of Mr Ms cancer. And it included the results from a scan on 15 
February 2022 - after Mr M had received six cycles of palliative chemotherapy - which Dr M 
referred to when commenting on prognosis. She said: 
The CT of his chest, abdomen and pelvis undertaken on 15 February 2022 to assess 
response to treatment revealed stable appearances albeit the known sites of disease 
growing in size. 
Given the response to this line of treatment [Mr Ms] disease is likely to be 
progressing further on the next CT scan. His life expectancy is estimated from 
several months to year [sic] but not years.
[Mr M] potentially has 2 further lines of treatment available  both of which have low 
response rates in [Mr Ms particular type of cancer]. [Mr M] is currently not for best 
supportive care but has been linked with the community Palliative Care team in view 
of the incurable nature of his disease.
L&G sought the opinion of its CMO which was received 23 April 2022. The CMO 
commented:
Generally we support a TI diagnosis at the time of progression on first line therapy, 
From the info this seems likely to be the case now/shortly. Sadly the benefits from 
further therapy are likely to be modest and survival beyond 12 months from now 
would be unexpected. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable for L&G to seek the opinion of a consultant medical 
oncologist. Miss Bs opinion on prognosis did not satisfy the policy requirements in terms of 
the definition of terminal illness. And at that stage, how Mr M would respond to palliative 
chemotherapy was unknown. I accept theres conflicting information about what happened to 
the report Dr M spoke of when she met with Mr M in February 2022 and I acknowledge Mrs 
Ms views on this issue. But in any event, the report from Dr M is dated six days after an 
important scan which enabled Mr Ms doctors to assess his response to palliative 
chemotherapy, such that L&G was then able to confirm that the terminal illness requirements 
had been met. Between the date of Dr Ms report in February and its confirmed receipt in April, Ive noted 
that L&G chased regularly to try to understand what had happened with the report and to 
obtain it. Overall, I dont think L&G was responsible for this period of delay. And Im satisfied 
April 2022 was when L&G had sufficient evidence to assess whether Mr M met the policy 
definition of terminal illness. 
The policy definition requires both the opinions of an attending consultant and the CMO.  I 
acknowledge there was an additional delay of approximately two weeks between receipt of 
Dr Ms report and acceptance of the claim following receipt of the CMOs view. But as the 
benefit paid was for the policy month beginning 28 March 2022 (£88,591) this additional time 
wouldnt have affected the amount paid to Mr and Mrs M. So overall, I think L&Gs decision 
to pay for the policy month beginning 28 March 2022 was fair. 
Ive also thought about the compensation paid to Mr and Mrs M for mistakes in the handling 
of the claim and the impact of those mistakes on Mr and Mrs M at what was an already very 
distressing time. Had L&G not already acknowledged errors and offered compensation 
totalling £850, I would have directed payment of compensation in this region, because the 
businesss mistakes did cause substantial distress, upset and worry over a number of 
months. I think the level of compensation was fair, so Im not going to ask L&G to pay 
anything more.    
Mrs M has also expressed concern that theres been no reference to any requirement on 
L&G to review processes for dealing with terminal illness claims. I appreciate Mrs Ms views 
on this matter and her desire for other families in similar situations to receive a better 
service. But Im afraid this isnt something Im able to comment on. Our role as a dispute 
resolution service is to give fair and impartial answers to individual customer complaints. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator and has no power to tell a business to 
review its processes and procedures. However, the industry regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority - does require businesses to learn from customer complaints and to 
identify and remedy any recurring or systemic problems. 
So to conclude, I think L&G acted fairly in terms of paying the terminal illness benefit 
applicable on the date the claim was accepted in April 2022. And I think the £850 
compensation for the impact of mistakes and delays reasonably acknowledges the 
substantial distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M. So I dont think L&G needs 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint. Once again, Im sorry to send difficult news to 
Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to do 
anything more to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman