DRN-1396276
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a further advance in 2006. Mr and Mrs W say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-
sold them the PPI. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did 
not attract interest.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws further advance application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional 
insurances. It offered them the choice to take or turn down the policy. Its recorded that they 
chose it. Mr and Mrs W say they never saw this application, but they also confirmed they did 
apply for this advance, and they would have to have gone through the application in order to 
get that advance. Further, in order to fill out the form, the RBS staff member needed to know 
Mr and Mrs Ws up to date personal, financial, and employment, details, their loan and other 
insurance choices, and so on. So its clear the form was discussed with Mr and Mrs W in 
order to get that information. I think its most likely that the PPI section was discussed too.
Mr and Mrs W were then given a quotation which reiterated that the PPI was optional, and 
set out its cost separately to the advances cost  the policy was not part and parcel of the 
loan. Similarly, Mr and Mrs W signed a direct debit specifically to pay for PPI, separately to 
paying for the loan. And theyd already been approved for an RBS mortgage without PPI 
before this, so they wouldve known they didnt have to have a policy with their secured 
borrowing. Ive not seen any wider problems with RBS sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence that it unfairly pressured Mr or Mrs W into buying this policy. So I think its most 
likely that RBS made it clear Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose 
to take it  though I can understand if they no longer remember doing so after so long.
RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs W tailored financial advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them, or ask about their work benefits or other cover. It did have to 
give Mr and Mrs W clear information about the policy, then it was up to Mr and Mrs W to 
decide for themselves whether theyd like PPI or not.
The cost and benefit of the policy was clearly set out in the application documents and 
quotation. So Mr and Mrs W wouldve known how much the PPI would cost and what it 
would pay out if they chose it, and were able to decide whether they wanted it on that basis.
It is possible that RBS shouldve given Mr and Mrs W clearer information about the policys 
main exclusions. But it looks like Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. So better information about those exclusions was unlikely to have 
changed their minds.Lastly, Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their policy  and 
whether RBS treated them unfairly. RBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy was less than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how RBS has 
been working this out, and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it 
needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think RBS treated them unfairly. This 
means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid for the 
PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman