DRN-4008882
The complaint
Mr B complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and his belief that they 
failed to correctly fix a leak to his toilet following a claim he made on his Home Emergency 
(HE) insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B held a home insurance policy underwritten by AIL. Included within this policy was HE 
cover. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the agent acting on AILs behalf. As AIL 
have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any 
reference to AIL includes the actions of the agent.
Unfortunately, in May 2022, Mr B discovered a leak resulting from his toilet cistern 
overflowing. So, he contacted AIL to make a claim on the HE aspect of his policy. AIL 
arranged for a contractor, who Ill refer to as P, to attend Mr Bs property the following day. 
P replaced the ball valve within the system, and this stopped Mr Bs toilet from overflowing. 
So, AIL deemed the leak to have been repaired and closed the claim.
But in November 2022, Mr B contacting AIL again. He explained since May 2022, his water 
bills had increased significantly. And he believed this was due to an internal leak within the 
toilet cistern. He explained hed arranged for his own plumber to rectify the issue, at a cost of 
£40. Mr B felt that, had P repaired the leak correctly in May 2022, this follow up repair 
wouldnt have been needed. So, he wanted AIL to cover the costs of this repair. And he 
wanted to be compensated for the upset this caused.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think there was any 
evidence to show P failed to repair the initial leak. Nor did they think there was evidence to 
show it was agreed between Mr B and P that the entire cistern would need to be replaced. 
And even if this had been agreed, AIL didnt think this replacement wouldve been covered 
under the HE aspect of Mr Bs policy as the HE cover was only intended to provide a 
temporary repair. So, while they recognised Mr Bs unhappiness, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised that there 
was a period of six months both between P attending Mr Bs property and Mr B contacting 
AIL again. And they recognised Mr B was unable to provide an invoice, or job report, from 
his own plumber explaining what additional work had been undertaken and why. So, 
because of this, our investigator didnt think they were able to say the leak Mr B referred to in 
November 2022 was linked to the initial leak repaired in May 2022. Nor did they think there 
was evidence to suggest P failed to complete that repair correctly. So, our investigator didnt 
think AIL needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Mr B didnt agree. And he maintained his testimony that when P attended in May 2022, they 
agreed the cistern would need replacing and that the leak would remain. So, he maintained 
his belief that P had failed to repair the leak effectively and so, the costs hes incurred since 
should be reimbursed by AIL. As Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I appreciate Mr B 
elected to add the optional HE cover to his policy to ensure in an emergency situation, hed 
be covered for any repairs to mitigate damage and any losses. And I accept that Mr B would 
expect any repairs completed under this cover to ensure the emergency itself, in this case 
the leak, was fixed and so no longer present. So, as Mr B feels the leak continued after May 
2022 until he sought his own plumber, I can understand why Mr B would feel as though AIL 
have acted unfairly. And why Mr B would expect AIL to cover the additional costs hes 
incurred because of this.
But for me to say AIL should reimburse Mr B the costs of the plumber, plus any additional 
compensation, I first need to be satisfied AIL have done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that P, acting on AILs behalf, failed to repair the leak correctly in May 2022. Or, that 
AIL acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
In this situation, its not in dispute that P attended Mr Bs property and replaced the ball 
valve. Ive seen Ps invoice sent to AIL which included a description of the work they 
undertook. And within this, it says the toilet mechanism was working ok following the ball 
valve replacement.
I note the initial claim was made as Mr Bs toilet was overflowing. And it was this overflow 
that created the emergency situation, as it created a risk of damage to Mr Bs home. Ive 
seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr B held, which explains under the HE cover 
that an emergency is defined as a sudden or unforeseen incident in your home which 
immediately creates a risk of loss of or damage to your home and any of the contents. And 
where an emergency is present, the terms explain AIL will arrange and pay for work to be 
carried out to make a temporary repair of damage caused by specified events.
As Mr B didnt contact AIL again until November 2022, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume the repair P completed did fix the risk of the toilet overflowing as I wouldve 
expected Mr B to have contacted AIL before this time due to the damage an overflowing 
toilet would likely have caused. And under the terms of the policy, I think this repair is the 
temporary repair AIL were obligated to provide.
While I note Mr B says the leak continued as a drip within the cistern, Ive seen no evidence 
to show this is the case. Mr B has been unable to provide a copy of a job report that details 
the work his own plumber undertook. And Ps own invoice and description lists the issue with 
the toilet as repaired.
So, I dont think AIL were able to be sure of the leak type, location and most crucially, 
whether it was linked to the first repair P completed. And because of this, I dont think Im 
able to say AIL should then be responsible for the costs of repairing this. I also note Mr B 
has been unable to provide evidence of the amount he paid to his plumber as there is no 
invoice to provide and he paid in cash.And even if I was able to make a link between the leak, and the work P completed, I note the 
terms of the policy also explain under the heading what is not covered that AIL arent 
obligated to repair Any dripping tap or nozzle, or any other part of the plumbing or drainage 
system, if the water is going down a drain without causing damage.
So, even if a leak was present in May 2022 that wasnt fixed by the replacement of the ball 
valve, as this leak was inside the toilet and wasnt causing any damage to Mr Bs home, I 
dont think this leak wouldve been an insurable event that AIL shouldve repaired under the 
policy Mr B held.
So, because of all of the above, I dont think Im able to say AIL have acted unfairly when 
repairing Mr Bs toilet in May 2022 as I think the emergency present was rectified. And I 
dont think Im able to say AIL have done something wrong that means they should now 
reimburse Mr B for the costs he incurred instructing his own plumber to complete further 
work in November 2022. So, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman