DRN-2415928
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclay Bank UK Plc didnt treat him fairly when he wanted to extend 
the term of his buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
In 2003 Mr S took out an interest only residential mortgage with another lender. In 2004, Mr 
S obtained short-term permission to let from the other lender. In 2012, the mortgage was 
transferred to Barclays and Mr S continued to let the property.
In 2019, the mortgage term ended. Mr S asked Barclays to extend the term. Barclays said it 
could only do that if Mr S took a repayment mortgage or took out a new buy-to-let mortgage. 
Mr S applied for a buy-to-let mortgage and told Barclays that he had over ten other 
properties that were let. 
After around four months Barclays told Mr S his application had been declined. Barclays 
reviewed the decision and asked for details of his income and expenditure. There was some 
difficulty in getting the necessary form to Mr S. When it was provided, Barclays declined the 
application as Mr S had more than ten other properties that were let.
Mr S also complains that he has had to pay over £300 a month, compared to £131.98 he 
would have paid had his application been successful.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer of £300 to reflect the way it handled the 
application, sending confidential information to the wrong address and the way it handled the 
complaint was fair. Mr S didnt accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S took out the mortgage, he agreed to pay it back in 2019. But Barclays should 
understand that sometimes things dont work out as planned and explore what it can do if a 
borrower cant repay the mortgage and doesnt want to sell the property.
While there are rules in place to protect residential mortgage borrowers in these 
circumstances, there isnt the same level of protection for properties that are let. In this case 
the situation isnt straightforward as it is technically a residential mortgage that has been let 
 Barclays says without its permission. Barclays should still have due regard for Mr Ss best 
interests and treat him fairly.
It is clear that Barclays should have known at the outset that Mr S was never going to qualify 
for a new buy-to-let mortgage under its policy. So it has wasted his time and raised his 
hopes in leading him to believe that it would be possible. Not all of the delays were its fault. 
And a decision in principle is not a binding commitment to lend. But it didnt handle the 
application well. But after considering all the circumstances I consider its offer of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S is fair.
It is almost two years since the term of the mortgage expired. It was reasonable for Barclays 
to threaten legal action in view of the length of time since the term ended and without a 
credible plan from Mr S to repay the mortgage. I can see that it explored selling the property 
with Mr S, but that wasnt something he wanted to do. Barclays has said it is prepared to 
consider any other proposals Mr S puts forward to repay the mortgage. It should continue to 
treat him fairly. But it is for Mr S to tell Barclays what is happening  and it would be 
reasonable for it to ask for evidence to support any plan he comes up with. It isnt obliged to 
extend the term of this mortgage or give Mr S a new mortgage.
I consider it was reasonable for Barclays to look at how much Mr S could afford to pay and 
ask him to pay that amount towards the mortgage, rather than the previous amount he was 
paying. That reflects that the term of the mortgage had ended and Barclays was entitled to 
seek repayment until Mr S had a firm way to repay the balance in place.
I accept that there were other errors by Barclays. Its solicitor sent information to Mr Ss rental 
property rather than his home address. But I cant see that has caused Mr S any financial 
loss and Mr S said that the tenant forwarded the information to him. Barclays also incorrectly 
told him that it had closed his complaint. I know Mr S will be disappointed, but after 
considering everything that happened, I think that Barclays total offer of £300 is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr S £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman