DRN-3413791
The complaint
Mr H complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Hes unhappy with the service hes 
received from them since the end of the relationship with his previous financial adviser. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr H complained to Aviva as he was unhappy with the service hed received since 
the relationship with his previous financial adviser ended.
He was unhappy with the limitations on the Aviva platform for orphaned clients 
(clients without an attached adviser) and felt that he should have been made aware 
earlier of his options, any specific investment limitations and their implications. This 
would have allowed him to review his position and consider his options e.g. engaging 
another financial adviser or moving his investments to another platform provider. 
The delay in receiving the information resulted in lost time, missed opportunities and 
had cost him a lot of money to hold his investments on the Aviva platform. 
He also thought Aviva should have done more to question the actions of his previous 
adviser e.g. the conversion of investments into cash and the subsequent 
reinvestment of large amounts which breached the FSCS limit. 
He thought that Aviva should be making it easier for him to invest his outstanding 
cash. The investment process for orphaned clients was protracted and cumbersome 
and wasnt conducive to timely and opportunistic investment. 
He was being charged fees of 0.15% when previously it was 0.13% with the adviser. 
This was unfair and was too high for the service he was receiving which was simply 
an electronic investment storage facility. 
He couldnt deal in investment trusts and exchange traded funds. He thought he 
should be able to trade these instruments at his own risk in the same way as he was 
allowed to trade traditional funds.
He wanted a refund of all the monies paid since the end of the relationship with the 
adviser and wanted compensation for not being able to trade freely. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that as an orphan client, Mr H 
didnt benefit from any discounts which would have been negotiated by his adviser. 
An adviser would also have done most of the administrative work and the higher 
charges reflected the extra work required of Aviva to make sure customers were 
aware of all options. 
They appreciated Mr Hs frustration in trading on a non-advised basis and accepted 
that it extended the timescales for him to trade. They also acknowledged the 
concerns hed raised about his previous adviser but explained that the adviser was 
an independent entity to Aviva and therefore they couldnt comment on his actions. 
They thought they could have been clearer in their correspondence and paid Mr H 
£150 in compensation.
Mr H didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva hadnt breached the 
terms of the agreement they had with Mr H. He noted Mr Hs concerns but thought 
the changes in fees and limitations that would apply were set out in a letter Aviva had 
sent to him in September 2020. And while Avivas processes regarding making 
trades differed from other providers, that didnt mean that they were treating Mr H 
unfairly. He acknowledged that they couldve responded sooner on some occasions 
and been clearer in some of their communications but thought that their offer of £150 
was fair compensation. 
Mr H didnt agree and said he believed Aviva could have looked after him better. He 
thought he should have been provided with an orphan client pack after the end of his 
relationship with his adviser. He didnt think that the investigator should have relied 
on a letter that had been allegedly been sent but he hadnt received. Hed spent 
considerable effort trying to engage with Aviva but found it to be an onerous process 
and thought they needed to have explained earlier that once a transfer had been 
started then further trading was not possible.
The impact of their actions was serious and had forced Mr H to change his plans to 
retire at 55. Their offer of £150.00 was inadequate and he wanted the investigator to 
reconsider his assessment of the offer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling regarding this complaint. 
Id like to assure him that Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Im aware Ive 
summarised his complaint points in less detail than he has, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. I note that Mr H has raised a number of issues with Aviva and 
Id like to clarify that this complaint is solely about the poor service hes received on his 
account.
This service isnt the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our 
service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a 
commercial decision. Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this 
complaint and check that Aviva followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by 
the regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
Mr H has said that Aviva should have done more to question the actions of his previous 
adviser. However, Im not persuaded that they should have. The terms of the account he held said We will not apply any discretion when dealing on Your behalf nor accept liability 
for any losses, direct or consequential, which You may realise as a result of the Investment 
decisions made by You or in conjunction with Your Adviser or DIM. Therefore, I dont think 
they had a responsibility to review or comment on the actions of the previous adviser.
The rest of Mr Hs complaint centres around the changes to his Aviva account when the 
relationship with his adviser ended and the impact of these changes. Ive therefore 
considered if and when Mr H was made aware of the changes. From what Ive seen Aviva 
sent Mr H a letter on 25 September 2020. The letter said:
We have been informed by your financial adviser that they are no longer dealing with your 
Platform account. Weve stopped paying the adviser charge you set up with them, so you will 
need to find out whether there are any outstanding fees.
You have two options now. You can appoint a new financial adviser to deal with your 
account, or you can choose to manage your account yourself. Depending on which option 
you choose, your account charges could change so its important you consider your options 
before making a decision.
The letter went on to explain how Mr H could manage his account and said:
Some of our investments are only available through financial advisers. This means there be 
some assets which you cant invest in if youre managing your account yourself. These are: 
 Structured products
 Offshore funds
 Shares and other exchange traded investments
 Model Portfolios
Any existing investments youve got in them will remain, and you can sell the assets you 
already hold, but you wont be able to buy any more.
If youre investing money from a direct debit into a model portfolio or assets which are no 
longer available, well start applying it as 100% cash. You can choose new assets to invest 
this money in using your online Platform account. You should bear in mind the interest rate 
you receive on cash investments can be lower than your plan charges. This means the value 
of your money could do down if its invested in cash long term.
Its also important you know that any existing arrangement you have in place to regularly 
rebalance your portfolio will be cancelled.
I think the letter was clear about the changes that would be made to the account, including 
the change to the charging structure. I appreciate the point Mr H has made about not 
receiving the letter but the evidence Ive seen shows that the letter was correctly addressed 
to him so I dont think I can fairly say that Aviva didnt make him aware of the changes.
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said regarding the processes that Aviva have in place 
for orphaned clients and the limitations on trading once a transfer to another provider 
started. I appreciate the points hes made, but as Ive said above, it isnt for this service to 
interfere in commercial decisions. Avivas processes may differ to that of other businesses, 
but I dont think its unreasonable for a business to use their commercial judgement to set 
their own processes. I also appreciate that Aviva could have made the trading restrictions clearer to Mr H earlier 
than they did. But I think that even if they had done, its more likely than not that Mr H would 
still have made the decision to move to another provider. I say this because of the many 
concerns Mr H has raised about Avivas processes and charges  I dont think a trading 
restriction would have made him keep his holdings on their platform. Therefore, he still 
wouldnt have been able to trade while the transfer was pending so I dont think I can fairly 
say that Aviva have caused him to suffer a loss.
That being said, I think that Aviva caused Mr H inconvenience by not being clearer about the 
challenges he would face when trying to invest regular monthly amounts. There were also 
delays in providing information hed requested. But having taken everything into account I 
think the £150 that theyve paid him is fair compensation for the inconvenience they have 
caused. 
So in summary, while I appreciate Mr Hs concerns, I dont think Aviva have treated him 
unfairly. From what Ive seen, theyve kept to the terms of the account that Mr H held with 
them and while theyve caused him inconvenience, the compensation theyve paid him is fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited have already paid Mr H £150 in compensation which is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman