DRN-3482606
The complaint
Mr B says Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a 10-year instalment loan for £10,000 from PML on 4 July 2017. The monthly
repayments were £351.84 and the total repayable was £42,221.20. I understand the debt is
now being repaid through a debt management plan that Mr B entered into in early 2018.
Mr B says he had to take out this loan, and others, as his business was struggling so his
income fell. The impact of all the debt and the ever-increasing repayments damaged his
health and also led to him falling behind on priority bills such as his mortgage and council
tax.
Our adjudicator found that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said PMLs checks were
proportionate but that it did not make a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered.
PML said its assessment showed Mr B would be able to afford the loan repayments in a
sustainable manner. It disagreed with a number of the adjudicators findings, saying:
the sum of Mr Bs debt at the time was £42,366, including his defaulted balances;
Mr B provided a copy of correspondence showing he had started the termination
process for his hire purchase agreement  and PML has not seen any evidence this
was not completed  so that monthly payment should not be included in the
affordability assessment;
similarly the payday loans that were being consolidated should be excluded; and
Mr Bs bank statements show the exact amount he was repaying to debt collectors to
reduce his defaulted debt  why would we not take into account that amount rather
than a 3% assumption?
It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. I reached the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator but made some different findings, so I issued a 
provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both 
parties to send any comments or new evidence by 17 May 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see PML asked for certain information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income, credit commitments and living expenses. And it validated these by
obtaining his recent bank statements and his 2015 and 2016 accounts as he was self-
employed.
It also checked his credit file to understand his existing monthly credit
commitments and credit history. It further investigated its findings on calls with Mr B prior to
approving the loan. From these checks combined PML concluded the loan was affordable
for Mr B.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate. But I am not persuaded PML made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered.
First, to confirm that I agree with some of the points the lender made in response to the
adjudicators assessment. From my analysis of the credit report PML provided I find Mr Bs
total unsecured debt of around £42,000 includes the defaulted debt he was making token
repayments on. And it dont think it was unreasonable for PML to use the amounts he was
actually repaying given it had copies of his bank statements and could verify the figures. I
agree as well that it did not need to consider the monthly cost of the payday loan debt this
loan was settling.
However, I dont think it should have gone ahead with the loan until it had confirmation that
the hire purchase agreement for nearly £26,000 was settled. I say this as the monthly
repayment was significant at £559. The lender knew Mr B had problems managing his
money historically and still had over £14,000 to repay across five defaulted accounts. It also
knew he had recently needed to take out four payday loans.
With the hire purchase agreement still in place, this new loan and the actual monthly
repayment to debt collectors Mr B would need to spend around 40% of his income (based on
the £2455.92 figure PML used in its assessment) each month to meet his contractual credit
commitments. I think PML ought to have realised this meant there was a risk he would be
unable to sustainably make his repayments over the ten-year term. And so it should have
paused the release of any funds until it had adequate confirmation the hire purchase was no
longer an ongoing commitment. It raised that it has not seen any evidence that the
termination wasnt completed as planned. But I have a copy of Mr Bs full credit file and this
shows it wasnt settled until 27 December 2019.
It follows I think PML was wrong to lend to Mr B.
I havent seen any evidence that PML acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
I then set out what PML would need to do to put things right.
Both parties responded before the deadline. Mr B had no further information to add. 
PML said Mr B had confirmed the hire purchase was settled and he sent in evidence to 
support this. The lender said as it was now clear the agreement hadnt been settled until 
December 2019 Mr B must have fabricated the supporting documentation. To now find in his 
favour would be to reward this deception.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
I have considered PMLs response to my provisional decision carefully, and listened again to 
the application call from 4 July 2017. Mr B said hed sold his car the previous Friday and 
settled the hire purchase agreement. He said he was waiting on an email confirming that the 
money had gone through which was due any day now. In response to the lenders request 
for confirmation of this he forwarded an email from the other lender dated 3 July 2017. But 
this shows Mr B had requested the voluntary termination of his hire purchase, not that this process had completed, and no monies were outstanding. It evidences that the vehicle had 
yet to be collected and inspected. 
So I remain of the view that, as a responsible lender, PML should have paused and waited 
until it had conclusive evidence that this hire purchase agreement had terminated with no 
ongoing liability. Particularly given Mr Bs historic problems managing money and the high 
value of this monthly repayment. 
I cant see that there is enough evidence to support PMLs claim that Mr B fabricated the 
documentation  he may well have started the termination process. I do accept he said hed 
sold the car on the application call, but this inconsistency does not change PMLs obligation 
to have due regard for the information it gathered and lend responsibly. Arguably, it 
increased the need for PML to have obtained more conclusive evidence that the agreement 
was terminated. 
It follows I am not changing the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. I 
think PML was wrong to lend to Mr B.  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
PML should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then PML should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then PML should
work with Mr B and the supervisor of his debt management plan to agree the revised
monthly repayment.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. PML should give Mr B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Progressive Money Limited must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman