DRN-4063505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc didnt switch their mortgage product in 
accordance with their understanding of what was to happen.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have an interest-only mortgage with Santander. Their existing mortgage 
product was coming to an end on 10 May 2022, and they wanted to take out a replacement 
product and further borrowing for home improvements. Mr and Mrs H had a phone call with a 
Santander adviser on 28 February 2022 in which a new product was recommended at a 
fixed rate of 1.89% for two years both on their existing borrowing and the further advance. 
Santander says Mr and Mrs H were told that an offer would go out and needed to be 
accepted by email. 
On 14 March Mrs H spoke with a Santander adviser and understood that they neednt do 
anything, and the rates would change in May. Then on 24 March Santander sent out an 
email saying that they had until 7 April to accept the offer for the new mortgage product. This 
was followed by a reminder on 4 April 2022. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the offer and so the 
mortgage went on to the Santanders follow-on rate. Santander didnt believe it was at fault 
but offered Mr and Mrs H £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that Santander had done anything 
wrong. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H, in order to get a new mortgage product with Santander, needed to get a 
mortgage product transfer offer from Santander which they did get but also needed to accept 
the offer. Sometimes when offers are sent out, customers dont accept them because they 
realise the offer is unsuitable. So, Santander requires a formal acceptance of this offer which 
Mr and Mrs H didnt do and therefore they werent able to take advantage of the mortgage 
product. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had adequate notice that a formal acceptance was 
required. 
Mr and Mrs H make the point that they struggle with internet transactions and that they had a 
conversation on 14 March when they understood they had to do nothing. But Mr and Mrs H 
have been able to conduct this complaint by email so its likely that they could have 
responded to Santanders email correspondence, and I see that it was after 14 March that 
Santander emailed them to say that they had until 7 April to accept the offer of the new 
mortgage product. The email of 4 April is quite explicit:
We just want to remind you that you have until midnight on 7/04/2022 to review and accept 
your mortgage product transfer off before it expires.
That clearly tells Mr and Mrs H that the offer would expire if they didnt accept it which they 
didnt and so it expired. So, my view is that Mr and Mrs H should have known what was 
required of them to accept the mortgage product transfer offer and had the ability to do it but 
for some reason didnt. I dont accept as Mr and Mrs H suggest that the bank sat back and 
allowed them to go onto the follow-up rate. Clearly Santander was actively looking for a 
response to the mortgage product transfer offer from Mr and Mrs H.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs H missed out the rate that they wanted but, for the reasons set out 
above, I cant fairly say that Santander did anything wrong. So, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. I see that Santander offered Mr and Mrs H £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I will 
leave it to Mr and Mrs H to contact Santander if they now wish to accept it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman