DRN-4024345
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (the AA, 
who declined their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a named storm, Mr B and Mrs B contacted the AA to make a claim. It sent a 
surveyor to assess the claim, as they said that the severe winds had damaged their flat roof.
The surveyor inspected the roof and wrote a report. The report concluded that the roof was 
at the end of its life span and there was evidence of wear and tear. So, the AA declined the 
claim. 
Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy by this outcome and complained to the AA. In its final 
response, the AA didnt change its mind. It said that although there was a storm, the storm 
had merely highlighted existing wear and tear issues with the roof. It also relied upon its 
experts opinion that the roof had come to the end of its lifespan. It also relied upon the 
exclusion terms of the policy namely that wear, and tear wasnt covered.  
Mr B and Mrs B were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  She didnt 
think that the AA had been unfair to decline the claim, as the evidence showed that there 
was damage to the roof, but she was persuaded that the damage only highlighted the 
existing wear and tear. She also said that the evidence showed that the roof was coming to 
the end of its life. So, she concluded that there was nothing further she could reasonably ask 
the AA to do. 
The AA accepted the view, Mr B and Mrs B did not. They said that the roof hadnt reached 
the end of its lifespan. They also said that they had changed the roof around five years 
earlier and the damage caused was consistent with the storm. So, they asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr B and Mrs B, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether the AA fairly declined the claim regarding the 
roof, under the policy exclusion of wear and tear.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event, namely 
strong winds. So, the first answer to the first question is yes.  
Turning to the second question is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. The answer to this is yes. The storm was described as strong winds. And the 
damage was to the roof covering, so I would agree that the damage caused was consistent 
with damage that a storm would cause.
The final question of whether the storm conditions were the main cause of damage is the 
main issue, in this complaint. 
Mr B and Mrs B said that they had had the roof replaced around five years prior to the storm. 
And that there was no way that the roof had reached the end of its lifespan. 
Mr B and Mrs B were asked to provide any evidence, that showed that the roof had been 
replaced at the time that they explained it was. Apart from a handwritten note (which the AA 
had sight of) I note that the note gave no indication of whether it was a quote or an invoice. 
The AA said that it had obtained images of Mr B and Mrs B home in 2009, 2011, 2012, 2014, 
2015 and 2020 and all the images showed the roof looking the same. In addition, it 
explained that when its surveyor had attended the property to assess the damage, Mrs B 
had told him that the roof hadnt been replaced long before they had moved in, which at the 
time was around 12 years previously. 
I understand that Mr B said that Mrs B only told the surveyor that they had been there for 
around nine years but wasnt aware of when the roof had been replaced. 
Ive carefully considered both parties comments regarding the lifespan of the roof. And Im 
persuaded by the AAs comments that the roof had come to the end of its lifespan, and Ill 
explain why.  
Although Mr B and Mrs B said they would provide further evidence to support their 
comments, none was provided. And Im persuaded that the handwritten note that they relied 
upon, didnt show whether it was a quotation or not.  Further, they didnt provide any other 
evidence such as photos of the roof after they said they replaced the roof in 2017 or a bank 
statement, showing that they had paid for the replaced roof. Consequently, Im persuaded 
that the roof had not been replaced in 2017, not least as the photo of the roof in 2020, 
looked exactly the same as the roof in 2009. 
The AA said that it had declined the claim on the basis that there was wear and tear to the 
roof and it relied on the exclusion term in the policy, that wear, and tear wasnt covered. The AA also relied upon its expert  the surveyor  who inspected the property and concluded 
that the damage was caused due to wear and tear and not as a result of the storm. 
In the absence of any expert evidence from Mr B and Mrs B to the contrary. And given that 
the surveyor is an expert in his field, Im satisfied that it was fair for the AA to also rely upon 
their experts report. 
Having reviewed the surveyors report, he said that there was evidence of aging and splitting 
of the roof. Given the conclusions reached by the AAs expert, Im persuaded that the storm 
conditions werent the main cause of damage to the roof, as the damage merely highlighted 
the gradual deterioration of the roof. Which wasnt covered under the policy. Accordingly, I 
think the AA was fair to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr B and Mrs B will 
be, there was evidence of wear and tear and as this was a policy exclusion, Im satisfied that 
the AA fairly declined their claim under the policy terms and conditions. Accordingly, I cant 
reasonably ask the AA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman