DRN-4319892
The complaint
Miss J complains about the actions of Santander UK PLC when she was tricked into 
transferring money as a result of a scam. 
Miss J is being represented by a claims management company but ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Miss J below. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2022 Miss J met a third party 
online and after a few days they swapped mobile numbers. After a few weeks the third party 
started talking to Miss J about investing in crypto. It was suggested Miss J should invest 
through the same merchant as the third party and Miss J was sent a link to the website and 
told to set up accounts with the merchant and a genuine crypto exchange. Miss J then 
proceeded to make the following payments towards the scam;
Date Payee Amount
17/02/2022 Card payment to Crypto 
exchange£500
01/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £5
01/03/2022 Withdrawal £593.30
01/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £3,000
02/03/2022 Withdrawal £3,244.68
02/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £6,500
02/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £1,500
03/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £7,200
03/03/2022 APP to crypto exchange £4,600
04/03/2022 Withdrawal £102.78
Total outstanding loss £19,364.24
When Miss J made the £4,600 payment this was stopped by Santander and a discussion 
took place about why she was making the payment before it was allowed to leave the 
account. After Miss J received the last withdrawal, she lost contact with the third party and 
became suspicious. So, she contacted Santander to try and get her money back. Santander 
considered the claim but decided not to offer Miss J a refund. So, she brought her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Santander had 
asked Miss J on a call whether she had been contacted by third parties and asked to invest 
in crypto but Miss J said she was investing herself. So, she didnt think any further 
questioning from Santander wouldve made a difference here. 
Miss J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Santander shouldve 
stopped the earlier payments she made towards the scam as these were unusual and 
suspicious. And if it had then it wouldve been able to uncover the scam. She said the 
discussion she had with Santander after it stopped the £4,600 wasnt effective and more 
questions shouldve been asked about why she was making the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss J feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Miss J has referred to 
in her submissions). Santander ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various 
risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its 
customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before 
processing payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible 
financial harm from fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Santander has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. Here, Santander says it stopped the £4,600 payment but wasnt 
suspicious of any of the other payments. Miss J has said Santander shouldve done more to 
stop the scam both before and during the call and didnt effectively question her when it had 
the opportunity. 
Miss J was told by the scammers to make a payment towards income tax if she wanted to 
make further withdrawals from her account. She attempted to make a £4,600 payment but 
this was flagged by Santander. When Santander spoke to Miss J she was asked if she had 
been contacted by any third parties and asked to invest in crypto (more than once) and 
whether she had control of the account she was moving the money to. Miss J said she was 
making the payment herself (more than once), no third parties had contacted her in relation 
to crypto and that she had full control of the account at the crypto exchange she was 
sending the money to. Miss J told Santander she was just buying, investing and then selling 
crypto for herself. 
Ive considered everything Miss J has said carefully but I dont think that Santander had a 
reasonable basis to believe Miss J was being scammed here. Thats because this wasnt a 
typical investment scam where a customer is contacted by a scam investment company and 
given investment advice where the bank can ask questions about the investment company 
or conduct its own research into that company on the FCA database. 
Unfortunately, here there was a romance scam element. Its clear that Miss J was under the 
influence of the third party throughout the scam and was persuaded by the withdrawals she 
had received. Miss J told this service she didnt conduct any further checks into the scammers website because she trusted the recommendation of the person she met online. 
She added that after she made the first payment, she was no longer comfortable with the 
investment. But any fears she had were eased by the scammer when they allowed her to 
make a withdrawal (£593.30). 
Later on in the scam she was happy to make a payment towards income tax so she could 
make further withdrawals after she was told by the third party she had met online this was 
normal. And she was happy to tell Santander on the call that she hadnt been asked to invest 
in crypto by any third parties and that she was doing all of this herself. So, I dont agree with 
Miss J that Santander didnt ask reasonable questions during the call. Santander responded 
to the answers it was provided with in the circumstances. And Miss Js answers meant that 
Santander didnt unreasonably think she wasnt being scammed.  
As a result of the above, Im also not satisfied that any earlier interventions by Santander 
wouldve made a difference here nor do I think this is a case where there was anything 
substantive enough to mean that Santander wouldve been justified in refusing Miss Js 
payment instruction (£4,600) altogether - or any of the others - and going against her wishes. 
Ive considered whether Santander acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. 
The payments Miss J lost to the scam were sent to accounts in her name at a genuine 
crypto exchange. Miss J has confirmed that the money was then sent from her accounts to 
the scammers. So, Im satisfied there wasnt any money for Santander to recover for Miss J 
here. 
I appreciate my decision leaves Miss J in a difficult position and that she has lost a lot of 
money to this scam. And Im sorry to hear about her circumstances and the effect the scam 
has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Santander to do 
anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman