DRN-1682388
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2001. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mrs C applied for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she was never consulted abut the PPI being optional, the box was pre-ticked 
and she knows it had to be selected for the application to proceed.  Canada Square disputes 
this and says the PPI had to be either selected or declined for the application to progress. 
Mrs C applied for the PPI online, there's no record that she had any direct contact with the 
bank. Canada Square has provided Mrs C's application report. This shows the answers she 
gave and the choices she made when she applied for the Egg credit card online. It shows 
she ticked the box on the screen indicating she wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the 
statement that by ticking the box she was confirming shed read and agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the PPI. The options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal 
prominence on the screen. I can't find other evidence to support Mrs C's claim that the PPI 
was pre-selected. I have thought about her comments carefully, but given the balance of 
evidence I think it's most likely Canada Square Operations made it clear the PPI was 
optional, and Mrs C agreed to take it out. 
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if 
it was suitable for her. It was up to Mrs C to decide whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mrs C all the information about the PPI 
that she needed before she made her decision. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and 
so appears to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations. The policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive benefit 
level. If Mrs C was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to her work benefit of six months full pay. Mrs C also said she had savings worth around six months' 
salary but the PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst 
not working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. Overall, I think it unlikely Mrs C 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.
It follows I don't think the policy was mis-sold. But Canada Square Operations has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
- Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that 
is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs C.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman