DRN-2953590
The complaint
Mr A complains about Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and their decision to refund his 
buyer after there was a dispute surrounding the earphones he sold.
What happened
On 25 April 2021, Mr A sold a pair of earphones through an online trading website, who Ill 
refer to as E. The payment for these earphones, £128.23, was processed through Paypal.
Unfortunately, the buyer was unhappy with the earphones. Initially, they claimed the 
earphones werent genuine. And later said the earphones were faulty. So, the buyer raised a 
dispute through Es dispute process. The buyer was told to return the earphones and they 
were issued with a refund, which was taken from Mr As Paypal account. Mr A was unhappy 
with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A said the earphones werent returned. And even if they were, Mr A says he wouldve 
been unable to re-sell them for hygiene reasons. So, he didnt think the buyer shouldve 
been refunded, and the funds debited from his account. So, he wanted to £128.23 paid back 
into his Paypal account.
Paypal didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They explained the buyer raised a dispute through 
Es dispute process, not their own. So, they were unable to influence the decision to refund 
the buyer as they were a separate business. They also referred to terms and conditions 
which explained they would follow the decision of E in this situation, unless Mr A opted out of 
this with E verbally. And they didnt think Mr A had. So, they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong.
But they agreed to credit Mr As account with £124.21 as a gesture of goodwill in order to 
bring an end to the matter. But they explained if E found in Mr As favour as he disputed the 
refund, this amount would be taken back. Mr A remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought it was Es 
decision to refund the buyer, not Paypals. And she thought Paypal had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account by following the decision made by E. So, she didnt think 
Paypal had done anything wrong. She also though Paypal were fair to charge their 
transaction fees, as the transaction was completed. But she recognised Paypal had made a 
goodwill gesture which recouped most of Mr As loss from the sale and thought this was fair. 
So, she didnt think Paypal needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He was unhappy that Paypal would take the £124.21 back if E found in his 
favour on the ongoing dispute. He thought this amount should remain in his account, 
whether or not he was reimbursed by E. Paypal didnt agree with this, as they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong and the offer was only made as a gesture of good will. Paypal 
also confirmed the dispute with E had been closed, in the buyers favour. As Mr A didnt 
agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr A. Im aware Mr A 
disputes the claims the buyer made regarding the earphones he sold through E. And I dont 
dispute Mr As testimony that he didnt receive the earphones back even though a refund 
was issued to the buyer. So, I can appreciate why Mr A would be left frustrated, as he was 
left without the payment or the earphones. But for me to say Paypal had done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account Mr A held. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the notes Paypal hold regarding the dispute raised by the buyer. And I think its 
clear the buyer raised a dispute about the earphones through Es dispute process, not 
Paypals. So, it was Es decision to refund the buyer and ask them to return the earphones to 
Mr A, not Paypal. So, Im unable to hold responsible for this.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the account Mr A holds with Paypal. And it explains the 
following:
If you accept PayPal payments from buyers for goods or services you sell through {E}, then
you need to read and understand the {E} Money Back Guarantee program. Unless you opt
out by calling {E}, PayPal will treat {E}'s decisions in favour of your buyers under that
program as a basis for reversing a PayPal payment made to you. If the balance in your cash
account or business PayPal account is insufficient to cover the amount, we may:
 Place a hold on your PayPal account until sufficient funds become available in your PayPal 
account to cover the amount. 
 Create a negative balance in your PayPal account.
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr A opted out of Es Money Back Guarantee program. So, I 
think Paypal acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account by following Es 
decision on the buyers initial dispute and debited Mr As Paypal account. Because of this, I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong.
Im aware Mr A was also unhappy that Paypal charged him for the transaction fee, and the 
fee that covered Paypals pre-approved billing agreement with E. I can understand why Mr A 
would be frustrated with this as he didnt receive payment for the earphones as this amount 
was refunded to the buyer. But, Paypal did process the transaction. So, I think they were fair 
to continue to charge Mr A for the costs of this transaction as this was separate to the 
dispute raised with E by the buyer.
But Ive seen that Paypal have offered to pay Mr A a goodwill gesture of £124.21, to 
recognise the situation hes found himself in. This wasnt a payment to compensate Mr A for 
anything Paypal had done wrong. So, this amount covered the costs associated with the 
transaction and also covered some of Mr As financial losses generated due to the dispute. I 
think this offer was more than fair, considering Paypal hadnt made an error on this occasion. 
This offer came with the condition that, if E reversed their decision and returned the cost of the earphones to Mr A, the £124.21 would be re-debited from Mr As account. And Im aware 
Mr A was unhappy with this condition and didnt think it was fair.
But I disagree. As Ive already explained above, I dont think Paypal did anything wrong. And 
the £124.21 was offered to Mr A as a gesture of good will, to recognise his financial loss. If 
Mr A received the cost of earphones from E, he wouldnt have incurred a financial loss. And I 
wouldnt expect Paypal to pay Mr A an additional £124.21 when theyd made no error. So, I 
think this condition was fair.
Weve also been made aware since this offer was made that E has closed the open dispute, 
without refunding Mr A. So, I think its unlikely the dispute will be overturned at this point and 
that Mr A will be receiving the initial fee he received for the earphones. So, I think its unlikely 
the good will gesture will be taken back by Paypal.
So, Im satisfied that Paypal have acted more than fairly in this situation. And because of 
this, I wont be asking them to do anything more. It remains Mr As decision as to whether he 
wishes to accept the good will gesture put to him by Paypal.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Paypal (Europe) Sarl 
et Cie SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman