DRN-3519574
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs I are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2016, Mr and Mrs I were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs I decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Is behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs I to enter into the contract with P. The CMC 
said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity and would not cost them anything over its 
25-year lifespan;
the system would be self-funding, and would pay for itself within eight years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments;
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once, at a cost of £1,000);
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,370 to mislead them, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £18,124.20.
The CMC also alleged that the system was not of satisfactory quality, based on its 
performance, and that this was a breach of contract.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs I or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs I and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Ps quote was unclear, and did not present information in a way which would be easy 
for consumers to understand;
the quote said it would take the system 8 years to pay for its cash price, but it will 
actually take 21 years;
it would take the system at least 30 years to pay for the loan; and
other customers had reported similar examples of mis-selling by P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs I paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs I could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs I and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs I say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Is testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs I, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and Mrs Is 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I do not agree that the quote is as complicated as the CMC suggests; I think it is clear and 
accessible. I will elaborate on this below.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs I were told that the overall cost of the system was 
more than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £9,270 is only the cash 
price. It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total 
charge for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £18,124.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Is recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr and Mrs I more than the cash 
price as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs I have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Is recollections of their meeting with 
Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs I could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs I could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £243.97, which results in an average monthly income of about 
£20. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £99.05. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs I were told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs I could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £418.05 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs I, the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £964.66. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
That obviously comes to less than 12 monthly loan payments of £99 each.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs I entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £99.05. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £100.69, but the difference  £1.64  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £99.05, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first four years of the loan, meaning that the system would take until year five to start 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think that this table presents this information clearly. It appears immediately above Mrs Is 
signature, so Im satisfied that it was brought to her attention.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs I could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs I werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Is version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs I that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.64 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). As I said above, that section of the quote has been 
signed by Mrs I, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her and her husbands 
attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the 
meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs I were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 30 
years. This shows that it would take eight years for the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs I could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the eight-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2  the only page which the CMC agrees is clear   and so I dont consider that it 
needed further explaining. Underneath, it explains that this relates to the cash price of the 
system, not the cost of the loan.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This shows that during year eight the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs I could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system. The same table also shows that 
the total amount payable under the loan agreement would be reached by the end of year 14 
(although that amount is not shown in the quote but only in the loan agreement).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs I that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 8 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table described above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 25 or even 30 years for the system to 
pay for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is 
in line with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs I.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,580 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Is FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,225 kWh a year. This is a little less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale  about 90%  so Im satisfied that the system is performing roughly as 
expected, in terms of energy generation. I think that 90% is just within a reasonable range of 
the estimate. So if Mr and Mrs I have not seen the expected financial returns they were 
expecting, this is not because the system is defective, but must be for some other cause.
(I have noted that Mr and Mrs I have provided, via the CMC, a photo of their meter, showing 
a reading of 6,490 kWh. They have said that this photo was taken in May 2022, but I dont 
accept that can be correct, because the FIT statement says that in March 2018 the reading 
was 6,566 kWh.)
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs I havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs I could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs I entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs I that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and 
Mrs I to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr l to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman