DRN-4151615
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money 
they lost to a scam. Mr F, who is a director of E, brings this complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr F was introduced to a company Ill refer to as L by a friend. He understood it was a horse 
racing betting syndicate. He says Ls social media, email updates and website all seemed 
professional. And they had been operating since 2010. So he thought L were legitimate.
From Es account with Lloyds, Mr F made two payments of £25,000 to L in January 2018. In 
January 2019, he made a further payment of £50,000. Followed by four payments of 
£25,000 a few days later. Shortly after, public concerns were raised that L might be a scam. 
Mr F contacted Lloyds about this, and it tried  unsuccessfully  to recall his payments. Mr F 
complained about how his fraud claim was being handled. But that was simply in relation to 
the ongoing service and recall requests. Following this complaint, Lloyds declined the fraud 
claim around August 2019.
In 2022, supported by a professional representative, Mr F complained about Lloyds decision 
not to refund E. He said the payments were out of character, so it should have intervened. 
And if it had done so, it would have uncovered the scam and prevented the loss. Lloyds 
didnt agree to refund him, so he referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think all the payments to L looked 
suspicious, given the value of payments E frequently made. Although she thought the last 
payment  the fourth in one day, totalling £100,000, to L  looked unusual, she wasnt 
persuaded the scam would have been unravelled at that point if Lloyds had intervened.
Mr F disagrees. In summary, he suggests L should have been regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) but werent  indicating their dishonest intentions. And Action Fraud 
had issued a warning about scams relating to horse racing being presented as investment 
opportunities  as well as the FCA issuing a warning about unregulated collective investment 
schemes. So he thinks, through speaking to him about the payments, Lloyds would have 
realised L were a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. As Mr F authorised these payments, 
the starting position is that E is liable for them.
Although Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code, which offers some protection to victims of APP scams, this didnt come 
into force until May 2019. As that is after these payments were made, and the code isnt 
retrospective, the code doesnt apply here. 
But there are still some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
Es account regularly made high-value payments. So the payments didnt immediately look 
so out of character that I would have expected Lloyds to have been concerned about fraud. 
When E paid L £100,000 via four payments on one day, that arguably looked unusual 
enough to prompt Lloyds to look into the circumstances further. But Im not persuaded that, 
in doing so, Lloyds would have succeeded in uncovering the scam. 
I havent found any public reports raising concerns about L until after Mr F made these 
payments. At the time, L appeared to be a genuine company, registered publicly on 
Companies House, which had been operating successfully for a long time. So I dont think a 
discussion about the payments would have made it obvious to Lloyds, or Mr F, that L were 
operating a scam. 
Looking at the Action Fraud warning Mr F has provided, that talks about situations where a 
bet is placed then the individual cant get hold of the company. But here, Mr F had an 
ongoing relationship with L. So I dont think his situation would have struck him, or Lloyds, as 
relevant to that warning. 
The warning also says some investments into racing horses as part of a syndicate may in 
some instances be subject to FCA regulation. But that also means not all such syndicates 
should be. And it goes on to say betting syndicates dont require a licence. So I dont think 
the fact L werent regulated would reasonably have caused concern.
As mentioned, by the time I think Lloyds should have intervened, Mr F had paid L previously 
 so had a trusted relationship with them. He was also relying on his friends 
recommendation. Overall, based on the public information about L at that point, and the 
nature of Mr Fs dealings with them, I dont think that questioning by Lloyds was likely to 
have uncovered the scam. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr F. But Im not persuaded Lloyds failure to 
intervene caused or contributed to the fraudulent loss. And so, in all the circumstances, I 
dont consider it fair to direct Lloyds to refund E. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman