DRN-3604150
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Niche 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr R was 34 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was in good health 
and at that point he had accrued around sixteen years of pension benefits with the 
BSPS.
Mr R earned £37,200 per year and Mrs R earned around £28,000. They lived in a 
home valued at approximately £130,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £70,000 with 17 years left to run. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Rs BSPS was approximately 
£212,568 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Niche said Mr R wanted to 
retire early.
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 23 November 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension plan. Niche said this would allow 
Mr R to achieve his objectives. Mr R accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal 
pension. In 2021 Mr R complained to Niche about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Niche said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr R had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Rs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Niche referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, I think its important to say that Niche itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Rs existing scheme were high. This is 
because in its suitability letter, of 23 November 2017, Niche said of the critical yield, taking this into account, I would recommend that you do not transfer this pension, as you are likely 
to be financially worse off in retirement. 
The critical yield Niche said was required to match the benefits of the BSPS at the age of 65 
was 5.86%. For the age of 55, it was 7.06%. But these figures appear to relate to the current 
scheme Mr R was in  the BSPS. And we know a great deal about the timeline of what was 
happening to members of the BSPS at the time, as weve seen quite a few similar 
complaints. So we know, for example, that members were sent a Time to Choose booklet in 
October 2017 with new information about what was happening to their pension. 
So I think by the time of Niches advice in late November 2017, it should have been able to 
advise Mr R on the basis of BSPS2, rather than only the BSPS which was being closed. Ive 
noted another transfer analysis document was produced by Niche in January 2018, updating 
all the transfer comparisons with the new scheme (BSPS2). However, this was after the 
advice had already been provided to Mr R. This analysis provided some slightly different 
critical yield rates, but the fundamentals remain the same  achieving enough growth to 
make the transfer worthwhile wasnt likely, in my view.
I say this because the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 30 more years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. For an early retirement, at 55, the discount rate was 
4.5%. Because these rates are significantly below the critical yields Ive referred to, this 
infers that reaching the growth level required to help make a transfer-out worthwhile, was 
highly unlikely. As our investigator also explained, there were significant charges and fees 
associated with Niches recommendation to transfer to a personal pension. These costs 
would further erode the rates of growth going forward, and further reduced the value of 
transferring out.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Mr R was 
categorised as a moderately cautious attitude to risk (ATR). So, the regulators lower rate, 
which was applicable here, was also well below the critical yield rates. The critical yield rates 
for a reduced pension under the PPF scheme were slightly lower than the others, but Niche 
said Mr R wasnt interested in going into the PPF. 
Everything Ive therefore seen here strongly suggests Mr R would receive lower pension 
benefits as a result of transferring out. In addition to these things, Ive also noted that Niche 
said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the 
existing scheme at retirement at age 65, the funds required would be around £644,000 if 
taking a full pension and £517,000 if taking a pension and lump sum. Ive taken these from 
the January 2018 analysis. In my view, these figures provide a revealing window into the real 
value of what Mr R was being recommended to give up
So, Im very much persuaded to agree with Niches original sentiments - when it said 
transferring away to a personal pension wasnt recommended on this basis. Having said this back in 2017, it would be very hard for Niche now to argue these growth rates were 
achievable.
We know now that Niche still recommended that he transfer out, nonetheless, despite Mr R 
clearly being projected to receive overall lower pension benefits. However, to be clear, 
Niches recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension was not 
predicated on the financial comparisons with the BSPS2 or PPF. Rather, Niche said Mr R 
had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations 
which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower 
benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
Niche recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Rs 
wider objectives. It listed the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Niche said Mr R could retire early. In a personal pension he could take more tax-free 
cash. He could then also draw his desired retirement income more flexibly. 
It said he would have complete control over the funds and investments in a 
personal pension.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr R didnt want to enter the PPF.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that Niche recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr R. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
Niche mentioned several times in documents from the time of the advice and when 
answering his complaint, in 2021, that Mr R had said he wanted to retire early. Ive noted 
Niche refers to a retirement at 55 several times, but I see that in the fact-find dated 9 
November 2017, the early retirement age of 58, not 55, was given. In my view, this was the 
first of several indications that Niche wasnt considering Mr Rs circumstances diligently.
I dont doubt that Mr R might have genuinely hoped to retire early. But Ive seen nothing that 
shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to 
being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr R was only 34 years old at the time 
and its simply not credible that he had any concrete plans for retirement at that point. As a 
regulated financial adviser, Niche should have known this. It should have also known that 
predicating its recommendation on potential events, that were well over 20 years away at 
best, was highly uncertain. So, when it told Mr R that hed be able to start drawing from his 
personal pension early, until he reached state retirement age, these sorts of details were no 
more than guesswork.
Niche also promoted to Mr R that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But Niche should have 
been telling Mr R at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Rs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by Niche - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
Niche should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2, for example. It told Mr R that transferring would enable early retirement, but in 
my view this was mis-leading. In fact, early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, 
was an option for Mr R, although this would have meant Mr Rs pension benefits would have 
been somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I think 
this was discounted by Niche as Ive seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a 
view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Rs best interests. The advice simply focussed 
on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr R faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr R required flexibility in retirement in the 
way Niche suggested. Niche set out, as it was obliged to, the estimated annual pension 
upon his NRA. As a DB pension this was guaranteed and index linked. 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Rs financial and income 
needs were likely to be in retirement. And I certainly havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr R wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing 
his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. I dont think Niche 
properly assessed this. 
This is because, as well as retirement being a very long time away, we know Mr R had 
already joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been 
making contributions to it for up to thirty years more, until he retired. Mr Rs contributions to 
this second pension were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason 
to say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount 
in this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr R could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, but one 
with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found he did 
require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what Niche said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. Niche also implied 
that Mr R would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But 
Ive seen nothing which shows Mr R had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal 
control over his pension. Mr R had no previous exposure to investing. 
So, I think Mr Rs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. Any 
flexibility he wanted could be derived from that scheme.
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr R to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
Niche says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr R died. But Im afraid I think this 
was no more than a stock objective with no real relevance to Mr Rs situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr R. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Rs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his thirties and in good 
health, he and Mrs R had already started a family. In my view, the likely death benefits 
attached to the new DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr and Mrs R and they 
were also substantially underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs R if Mr R 
predeceased her and I dont think Niche made the value of this benefit clear enough, despite 
the details about the scheme emerging at the time. As father, I think the child specific 
benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr R. These were guaranteed and they 
escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, there may not have been a 
large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Rs passing, particularly if he lived a 
long life. Niche should therefore not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that Niche took into account the fact that Mr R could have nominated 
Mrs R as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr R had 
already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
34 years old, this would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr R really did want to 
leave a legacy for Mrs R and / or their child. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Rs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Niche said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Niche said he could have more control over his pension fund. So, its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Rs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche 
should have reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr R through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to Niches recommendation to Mr R to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Niche 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests. I 
think Niches failures in this respect were significant.
I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the 
evidence shows Mr R was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there 
were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think 
Niche ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, 
particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr R still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr R would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr R was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr R chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Niche should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr R would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Niche disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr R, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr R to transfer out, and I think Mr R relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Niches advice. I say this because Mr R was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Niche had explained Mr R was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could probably meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Niche should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. The company 
representing him didnt make a choice, so as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he 
doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. For clarity, Mr R has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requireNiche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman