DRN-1934668
The complaint
Mr D complains Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited avoided his car insurance 
policy (that is, treated it as if it never existed), refused to pay his claim and kept his policy 
premiums.
What happened
Mr D took out a car insurance policy in 2017 through a broker via an online price comparison 
site. He renewed the policy through the same broker in 2018 and 2019. It was in 2018 that 
Watford began underwriting Mr Ds policy (it was underwritten by a different insurer in 2017).
In 2019 Mr D had an accident and tried to claim on his car insurance. Watford avoided       
Mr Ds policy (that is, treated it as if it never existed), refused to pay his claim and kept the 
premiums hed paid. It did so because it said Mr D had failed to disclose two motoring 
convictions  one for drink-driving in 2014 and another for using a hand-held phone while 
driving in 2017. Watford said it wouldnt have offered Mr D cover if hed disclosed his drink-
driving conviction when it started underwriting his policy in 2018.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ds complaint didnt uphold it. He thought Mr D had made 
a deliberate misrepresentation. So he thought Watford had treated Mr D fairly by avoiding 
his policy, refusing to pay his claim and keeping his premiums.
Mr D doesnt agree with our investigator. He says he would never try to hide important 
information from an insurer. And he says the comparison site he used said his proposal 
would go through a full underwriting assessment before he was offered insurance, so he 
thought everything was ok.
Mr Ds complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr D 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding if the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
Watford says Mr D failed to take reasonable care when he didnt disclose his 2014 drink-
driving conviction. It says when Mr D first took out his policy in 2017, he answered No to a 
question on the comparison site about whether he had any driving related convictions, 
endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past five years. And Watford says 
when Mr D renewed his policy in 2019 over the phone he answered Yes when asked to 
confirm all his details on his current policy (which didnt refer to either conviction) were 
correct. Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ds 2019 insurance proposal form from Watford. This 
asks if hes been convicted of any motoring offence, disqualified from driving or had any 
fixed penalties within the last 5 years. This question has been answered with a No.
Mr D says he clicked Yes to the question about driving-related convictions on the 
comparison site in 2017. And he says he told his broker about the 2017 conviction the day 
after it happened. 
Watford says information from the comparison site shows Mr D got five quotes when he was 
looking to take out the insurance in 2017. It says he disclosed the conviction in one quote 
but went ahead with a quote in which he hadnt disclosed it. It says when it first underwrote 
Mr Ds policy in 2018, he didnt fill in a new proposal form because he was buying the 
insurance through the same broker. But Watford says he was asked if anything had changed 
and neither conviction was disclosed. The broker says it has no record of Mr D calling to 
notify it of the second conviction. And, as Ive already mentioned, it seems Mr D confirmed 
his details on his current policy (which didnt refer to any convictions) were correct over the 
phone in 2019  and his 2019 proposal form says he has no motoring convictions.
I think the question Mr D was asked about driving-related convictions when he first took out 
the insurance was very clear. And I think the subsequent confirmation he was asked to give 
about his current policy details being correct and the question in his 2019 proposal form 
were also clear. This and all the other information I have about what happened makes me 
think Mr D failed to take reasonable care in not disclosing his two driving convictions over a 
period of time.
Watfords underwriting criteria shows it wouldnt have offered cover to a consumer with a 
drink-driving conviction. So, if Mr D hadnt made the misrepresentation and had disclosed his 
drink-driving conviction, Watford wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
And what this in turn means is that I must now look at whether I think Mr Ds 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. A qualifying misrepresentation will 
be deliberate or reckless if a consumer:
knew the information they gave was untrue or misleading or didnt care if it was 
untrue or misleading; and
knew the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or didnt care if it was relevant to the insurer.
From the information I have, I think its likely Mr D knew the information he gave was 
misleading. For example, at the outset, he took out five quotes, and went ahead with one in 
which he hadnt disclose the conviction. Its possible, as Mr D says, he mis-clicked when he 
was choosing his insurance. But I think its more likely he deliberately chose a quote in which it wasnt disclosed. And I also think Mr D wouldve known that driving-related convictions 
were something that wouldve mattered to his insurer, both at the time he first took the policy 
out and when he renewed it.
Because Im satisfied Mr Ds representation was deliberate, Ive looked at the actions 
Watford can take in accordance with CIDRA. And Im satisfied Watford was entitled to avoid 
Mr Ds policy. This means that, in effect, his policy with Watford never existed, so it doesnt 
have to deal with his claim. I also think its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
Watford to keep Mr Ds insurance premiums. Because CIDRA reflects our long-standing 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Watford to rely on it to avoid Mr Ds 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Mr D says his brokers website said his insurance proposal would be fully reviewed against 
his insurers underwriting criteria before he took it out. If it had been, he says his 2014 
motoring conviction wouldve been revealed, so he wouldnt have been offered the policy 
and wouldnt have lost his premiums.
We havent found any evidence that Mr Ds brokers website said thered be a full 
underwriting review. It seems it did say certain registers may be searched to check the 
information given and to prevent fraudulent claims. Its possible there was something on the 
brokers site about an underwriting review that has now changed (as Mr D suggests) but I 
think its unlikely. I think it would be quite unusual for a policy of this type in these 
circumstances to go through a full underwriting review before insurance was offered. And the 
brokers site did say it expects consumers to give complete and accurate information when 
they take out an insurance policy, as well as during the life of the policy and when they 
renew it. So Mr Ds argument on this point doesnt change my conclusions on his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman