The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mrs H took out a further advance on her mortgage with Lloyds in 1998. At the same time she 
took out a regular premium MPPI policy to cover her repayments if she was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs H. 
Mrs H disagrees. She says she didnt knowingly take out PPI. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice in taking the policy. Mrs H 
says this wasnt done and that she didnt knowingly take out MPPI. But she hasnt provided 
any specific details about what happened or what was discussed when she applied for her 
further advance. And just because she cant remember talking about MPPI I dont think it 
means it wasnt discussed. Considering the amount of time that has passed I wouldnt 
expect her to remember everything. And Lloyds havent given us any of the MPPI 
documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about 
MPPI or how it was presented.DRN-1095146
But I have seen a copy of the mortgage offer and there is nothing about MPPI on this. I think 
if MPPI wasnt optional it wouldve been a condition of the mortgage and on the mortgage 
agreement. And from what I know about Lloydss sales documentation and processes at the 
time, I think its likely that it wouldve made Mrs H aware that MPPI was an option and that 
Mrs H had MPPI because she freely chose to take it rather than anything else. 
Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt given a choice or that she didnt agree to buy it.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application which shows that Mrs H had a meeting with an 
advisor when she applied for the further advance on her mortgage.  I think MPPI was likely 
discussed and sold during this meeting and I think Mrs H was advised to take MPPI. What 
this means is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way so that Mrs H could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also 
had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mrs Hs 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs H for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mrs H says that she was entitled to some sick pay, had savings and her parents 
wouldve helped make her repayments if she couldnt work. But there is no guarantee 
her parents could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for 
potentially longer, covering her for up to 12 months if she were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or if she lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a 
useful benefit to Mrs H in her circumstances especially considering she was taking 
on a significant and long term financial commitment. Given the implications if she 
was unable to meet her repayments I think Mrs H wouldve been interested in 
protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs H at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs H information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances at 
the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if shed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means Mrs H isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs H's complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman