DRN-4248877
The complaint
Mrs H, Mr H and Mrs I complain that Soteria Insurance Limited has failed to put right 
subsidence damage to Mrs Is property following a claim she made on her buildings 
insurance policy in 2018.
What happened
Mrs I made a claim for subsidence in 2018.
Soteria accepted the claim and proposed some work, to include the removal of some 
trees on a neighbours property.
Mrs I wasnt happy with this and didnt consent to the work. She later withdrew the 
claim and cancelled her policy.
In 2022 Mr and Mrs H - relatives of Mrs I  contacted Soteria asking it to reopen the 
claim. Soteria initially carried out some work but then said that as the policy had been 
cancelled it shouldnt have done this and it would not take any further action. Soteria 
offered to pay a cash settlement of £2,800, which it said represented the value of the 
claim in 2018.
Mr and Mrs H complained. Soteria maintained its position that it would not reopen the 
claim. But in its final response to the complaint Soteria said it would have incurred 
the cost of tree removal and monitoring in 2018 if the claim hadnt been withdrawn. 
So it offered to include the cost of this and increase the cash settlement to £8,574.
Mr and Mrs H replied on behalf of Mrs I. They didnt accept this offer and referred the 
complaint to this service but our investigator thought the offer was fair and didnt 
recommend any further action. Mr and Mrs H disagree and have requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
The investigator referred to the original offer of £2,800. Soteria has confirmed that 
the increased offer of £8,574 referred to in its final response letter is still available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I originally made a claim in 2018. We have considered a previous complaint from her 
about earlier events and cant reconsider what happened then. This complaint is only about 
how Soteria has dealt with things since Mr and Mrs H approached it again in 2022. 
The policy provided cover for this type of claim and the dispute is not about whether the 
claim was covered or not. The only issue for me to decide is whether Soteria should have 
done more to deal with the subsidence after being contacted again.
I appreciate that Mrs I has health conditions that mean shes unable to pursue the complaint 
by herself and Mr and Mrs H deal with her affairs. They say Soteria hasnt taken into account 
how vulnerable she is. But to uphold this complaint, Id need to conclude that Soteria has 
done something wrong which means it is now responsible for the works that need to be 
carried out. Having reviewed things carefully I dont think Soteria has made errors which 
make it responsible for what has happened since 2018.
Soteria cancelled the policy in 2018 at Mrs Is request. It didnt hear anything further for 
some time. While Mr and Mrs H say it would have been obvious to Soteria that Mrs I wasnt 
able to make decisions about her insurance, they didnt contact B again for a long time. It 
was only in 2022 that Soteria became fully aware of the situation. 
It appears the condition of the property has got worse over the years since 2018, which 
would not be surprising if there is subsidence and action hasnt been take to deal with it. But 
I dont think Soteria is responsible for that. Mr and Mrs H say the true extent of the 
subsidence wasnt known in 2018. I havent seen expert evidence confirming this. But even if 
there was such evidence, Soteria was only able to deal with the claim for around two months 
before it was withdrawn and Mrs I cancelled the policy. 
Soteria hasnt had the opportunity during the years between 2018 and 2022 to carry out  
further inspection or monitoring of the property or undertake repairs. And during that time, 
the policy hasnt been in force and no premiums have been paid. I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Soteria responsible for whats happened during these years, when it wasnt the 
insurer for the property.
Soteria has offered a cash settlement of the amount it would have spent, if the works it 
identified in 2018 had been carried out. In the circumstances I think that offer is fair. So I 
wont ask Soteria to do any more than that.
My final decision
Soteria Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £8,574 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Soteria Insurance Limited should pay £8,574.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, Mr H and 
Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman