DRN-3027019
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that PINK PIG LOANS LIMITED (PPL) sold them a second charge 
mortgage that wasnt suitable for their needs. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C wanted to consolidate a number of debts and pay for some home renovations. 
They were referred to PPL by their broker, to look into a second charge mortgage. 
PPL contacted Mrs C to better understand what she needed. She explained that she was 
looking to reduce monthly payments and that she wanted the new loan to be solely in her 
name.
Shortly after the agent called again to discuss the options he had found. During this call, he 
advised that more options would be available if Mr C added his name to the application, as 
some lenders dont lend to people who are married unless the lending is in both names. Mrs 
C agreed and confirmed Mr Cs name and that he was self-employed. 
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs C entered into a second charge mortgage agreement. However 
shortly after this they raised a complaint as they werent happy with the loan. Mrs C said that 
her credit report was now linked to Mr Cs because it was in joint names. She said she had 
tried to avoid this happening as he had a poor score, and this was now impacting her ability 
to obtain credit. She also said the loan wasnt good value, as some of the rates she had on 
previous borrowing were better. And she didnt think PPL offered them enough options when 
advising on the loan. 
PPL didnt uphold their complaint so they brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She sympathised with Mr and Mrs Cs position but was satisfied that PPL explained the 
terms of the loan well enough and had acted fairly when providing it. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of points. As this is an informal
service, I havent responded to each one individually, Ive focused on those I think are most
relevant. However I want to reassure Mr and Mrs C that I have considered everything
theyve said when reaching my decision.
While Mr and Mrs C have raised many points, the main issue is that they feel theyve been 
provided with a loan that is a poor deal, doesnt meet their needs and has had a negative 
impact on Mrs Cs credit rating. Ive addressed the key points in turn below.
The loan wasnt suitable
Mrs C has said that the interest rate of the loan is too high and it isnt a good deal. 
As part of this decision it isnt my role to consider if the loan was a good deal. Instead I need 
to consider whether PPL considered Mr and Mrs Cs needs, found a loan that met the 
requirements they outlined and provided Mr and Mrs C with all the information they needed 
to make the decision about the loan.
PPL has provided a number of calls between Mrs C and its advisor which Ive listened to. In 
the initial call the advisor explained that PPL only deals with first and second charge 
mortgages so wouldnt advise on any other type of lending. He also explained that if they felt 
other types of lending would be better they should get separate advice about this. So Im 
satisfied it was clear that only one type of lending would be offered.
The advisor then went on to ask a number of detailed questions about Mrs Cs current debt 
and the reason she was looking to consolidate it. So Im satisfied it did enough to ensure it 
clearly explained its role and to find out Mrs Cs needs for the borrowing. 
Ive also listened to the call when the loan was agreed to and set up. In this call, the advisor 
explained the interest rate and repayment terms. The repayments were lower than those 
Mrs C was making before the loan, and she had explained this was one of her motivations 
for consolidating the debt. So Im satisfied this met the needs she explained in the initial 
calls.
He also explained that some of Mrs Cs debts that were being consolidated were on better 
terms before the consolidation. He went through each of these and explained why and how 
much more they would cost if the loan went to its full term. In response, Mrs C said Im not 
bothered about that because I know I will pay it off sooner. So Im satisfied Mrs C was 
aware that some of her debt could have been paid off more quickly if she hadnt included it in 
the consolidation. 
Finally he explained the interest rate and broke down the additional broker fees that made 
up the loan. This was also provided in a document to Mr and Mrs C. 
So from looking at everything, Im satisfied PPL did enough to assess Mrs Cs needs and the 
loan met these needs. Im also satisfied it explained the terms of the loan clearly, including 
extra fees and debt that would be lent on worse terms. So I dont think PPL did anything 
wrong when selling Mr and Mrs C the loan.
Mrs C has also said that while she was taking out the loan she was vulnerable and was on 
strong medication which impaired her decision making ability. PPL has explained that it 
wasnt aware of any vulnerabilities throughout the process. And from listening to the calls, I 
dont think it would have been reasonably aware. So I dont think it acted unfairly by relying 
on Mrs Cs decision to enter into the loan agreement. 
Proportion of interest paid in repayments
Mr and Mrs C have said they arent happy with the proportion of the repayments that goes 
towards paying for interest charges. They say PPL didnt make this clear to them when they 
agreed to the loan. 
Ive considered this and I can see that PPL didnt provide a breakdown of the repayments 
and how much was made up of interest charges. However it did confirm the interest rate and 
the total amount that would be repayable at the end of the term - including interest. And I think this was enough for Mr and Mrs C to understand the agreement they were entering into 
and decide if it were suitable, regardless of how the interest was attributed across different 
repayments. So I think PPL provided Mr and Mrs C with sufficient information about the 
interest that would be paid and I wont ask it to do anything different in this regard. 
The loan was set up in joint names
Mrs C is also unhappy that the loan was provided in joint names. She says she didnt want to 
be financially associated with Mr C due to previous bad credit, so she only wanted the 
application in her name. And she thinks PPL were irresponsible for providing her with a loan 
in joint names.
I can see that when Mrs C was originally put in contact with PPL, she made it clear that the 
application should be in her name only. However after the advisor had carried out a search 
to find a suitable loan, he called Mrs C to explain that some lenders only offer borrowing to 
people who are married if the application is in joint names. And said if Mr C added to the 
application this would open up more lenders he could consider. Mrs C subsequently agreed 
to add Mr C to the borrowing.
Mrs C has said that in doing so, she has become financially linked to Mr C through her credit 
report and this has meant she hasnt been able to obtain credit including a re-mortgage. She 
says PPL didnt make this clear when they added Mr C to the application.
From listening to the relevant call I think PPL explained clearly why it was suggesting adding 
Mr C to the application. The advisor explained the rates he had found so far as a sole 
application, so Mrs C did have the option to continue with the application in just her name. 
Mrs C asked about being financially linked to Mr C if she went ahead with the joint 
application and the advisor said that there was already a link on her credit profile. While I 
think PPL could have been clearer about the link that would be created, from considering 
everything I think its most likely this wouldnt have impacted Mrs Cs decision to go ahead 
with the loan. 
Shortly after asking about the link on the call, the advisor explained that other lenders had 
accepted Mr C as a joint applicant and Mrs C quickly agreed that he should be added on. If 
the financial link was of particular concern at this time, I think its more likely Mrs C would 
have asked further questions about this and would have been less likely to accept the 
change to the application as quickly as she did.
Mrs C has provided evidence that she has since had credit applications declined in her 
name. She says this is because of the link on her file to Mr C. When a financial association 
is created on a credit file  as it has been here  this doesnt affect either individuals credit 
score. Instead it allows lenders to view the credit details of the linked person. So the link 
wouldnt have affected Mrs Cs credit score alone. And while it can impact lenders 
decisions, it alone is unlikely to have had the impact Mrs C has described. It seems more 
likely the declines were due to other factors and not just the link to Mr C. 
Mrs C has also said that when PPLs advisor initially called her about her sole application he 
said he could get an interest rate of around 8%, but they ended up with a rate of 12.9%. She 
says that shows that the joint application didnt help get a better deal. I asked PPL about this 
difference in rates and it confirmed that between the initial rate discussed and the final loan 
agreement, Mr and Mrs Cs house was valued. This valuation was significantly less than Mr 
and Mrs C expected which impacted the terms of any possible borrowing, as it was secured 
against the property. So I dont agree that just because the rate was higher than originally 
quoted, this means PPL were wrong to suggest a joint application. So while PPL could have been clearer about the link created if the application was made in 
joint names, from what Ive seen I dont think its likely this would have impacted Mrs Cs 
decision about the borrowing. And Ive not seen enough to convince me that it has had a 
significant impact on Mrs Cs credit worthiness. I therefore wont ask PPL to do anything 
further. 
Mrs C has also said that PPL didnt carry out a thorough enough fact find on Mr Cs finances 
before adding him to the application. She said the loan was lent irresponsibly to him as it has 
increased his indebtedness significantly.
PPL has explained that while some lenders require a joint application from married couples, 
this wasnt in order to increase affordability of the loan. Brokers and lenders are required to 
carry out sufficient checks to ensure the lending is affordable to the applicants. However in 
this case Mrs C had shown that she could afford it on her income alone. So I dont think it 
unreasonable that no further checks were carried out on Mr Cs affordability. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman