DRN-3154759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the performance of a mortgage endowment policy they took 
out in 1994, when compared to the performance of a smaller mortgage endowment they took 
out in 1996. Both policies were with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. They believe the 
poorer performance of the larger policy is due to the glide path applied in 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were sold a mortgage endowment to protect and repay their mortgage in 
1994. The policy had a target value of £46,310 over a term of 25 years. It matured in 2019 
with a value of £36,793.73.
In 1996 Mr and Mrs P were sold a top-up mortgage endowment, which had a target of 
£2,160. The term of the policy was 23 years and it also matured in 2019 for £1,834.05.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva about the maturity value of the larger policy. This was 
because proportionately, it hadnt performed as well as the smaller policy, despite it being 
invested in the same fund. They believed that the difference was due to a glide path applied 
in 2017, which restricted the growth of the policy.
Aviva responded to the complaint in its letter of 10 January 2020. It set out how the maturity 
values had been calculated and how they had been affected by the investment conditions 
over their terms. It also confirmed that as both policies were invested in the same fund, the 
values of the policies without the mortgage endowment Promise sum, was around 72.5% of 
their target figures. The difference in the percentages of target between the two had been 
down to the Promise contribution. It explained that the Promise amount paid on the smaller 
policy had been proportionately higher. This was because it had started later and so its 
growth was further behind when the Promise was issued.  Aviva confirmed that the 
introduction of the glide path in 2017 had not affected the maturity value of the larger policy 
and it referred Mr and Mrs P back to its explanation given in 2018, a copy of which was 
attached. This explained that the glide path was used to smooth out the path of surrender 
values leading up to maturity, so there were no unexpected (from the policyholders point of 
view) outcomes at maturity.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied with Avivas response and asked this service to look into their 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed how the maturity value of the policy was calculated and provided some 
explanation about the glide path and what its purpose was. Overall, he was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs P had received the maturity values for their policies that they were entitled to.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that they fully 
understood how the policy worked and the potential for it to pay out less than expected. 
However, their question of why a downward glide path needed to be applied, which they 
believed effectively restricted the performance of a policy, when the policy was already 
significantly falling short of its target. They remained unhappy that they had not received the 
clarity they needed in this regard. Mr and Mrs P said they believed that Aviva had decided in 
advance what the policy would pay out and restricted its growth so that the maturity value 
was in line with that prediction. 
Our investigator said that he considered Aviva had explained the glide path process and why 
it was used, and so he didnt change his conclusions. As such, Mr and Mrs P asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2021 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mr and Mrs P have confirmed they understand how their policies worked and that they were 
never guaranteed to pay out their target values. As such, I wont repeat the explanations 
about fund performance and investment conditions that have been given previously. This 
complaint comes down to what Mr and Mrs P believe the glide path does and the effect they 
believe it had on the larger of their two policies. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs P think that the introduction of the glide path in 2017 is the reason for the 
difference in the percentages of the target values the maturity values represented, it isnt. 
The glide path is only used in relation to producing values for the policy before its maturity. It 
is used to ensure that the surrender value relates realistically to the maturity value a 
consumer will receive at the end of the term.
When a surrender value is produced, a proportion of the sum assured and bonuses that are 
already attached will be used. The proportion is determined by how long the policy premiums 
have been paid for in comparison to the term of the policy. In addition to this, a proportionate 
final bonus is also paid (if one is payable at that time). The final bonus should take account 
of the policys share of the underlying assets in the fund which can be higher than the 
attached bonuses might indicate, because of the smoothing that is done when the size of the 
annual bonus is decided. 
However, the surrender value of a policy, may not be an accurate reflection of the likely 
maturity value of a policy at the end of the term. This can be because of various factors, 
including deteriorating market conditions, which are expected to continue, with a knock-on 
effect on terminal bonuses. Given the sum assured and already attached bonuses cant 
reduce on a traditional with-profits policy, when a surrender value is provided, a policyholder 
is likely to expect a larger pay out at maturity. The purpose of the glide path is to adjust the 
surrender value so that it more accurately reflects the maturity value that is thought likely to 
be produced. It doesnt restrict the growth of the policy going forward, but rather sets the 
surrender value to a level where a policyholders expectations about that growth and the 
likely maturity value are managed and realistic.
As Aviva explained, the difference in the apparent performance of the two policies is down to 
the amount each was allocated due to the mortgage endowment Promise. This was 
introduced in 2001 and it meant that Aviva pays an additional sum into the maturity proceeds 
dependent on the investment earnings achieved and the predicted shortfall (assuming 6% 
growth each year) on the policy at the time the promise was introduced.  Due to the smaller 
of the policies having been invested for a shorter time, the predicted shortfall in 2001 was a 
higher percentage of the target value than that predicted on the larger policy. This meant 
that when the Promise pay outs were added to the maturity values, that on the smaller policy 
equated to a higher percentage of its target value, than that added to the larger policy. This 
is where the difference in the percentage between the maturity values and the target values 
comes from.I hope this explanation answers Mr and Mrs Ps concerns. I am satisfied that they received 
the maturity values they were entitled to and Aviva didnt do anything to restrict the growth 
on the larger of their two policies.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed they had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comment nor evidence, they wanted me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman