DRN-4460923
The complaint
Mrs E complains about a cancellation fee Co-op Funeral Plans Limited has said will be 
applied to a refund of plan payments. Mrs E is represented by her daughter, Miss E.
What happened
In brief summary, Mrs E and her late husband took out funeral plans with Co-op. As a 
consequence of Co-ops recent customer service and delivery of her husbands funeral plan, 
Mrs E has lost faith in Co-op to deliver her plan to the standards she expects.  
Mrs E told Co-op she wanted to cancel her plan. Co-op explained that this could be done, 
but its standard cancellation fee of £250 would be deducted from her refund. Mrs E 
expressed her dissatisfaction about this, but Co-ops maintained its stance.
Mrs E remained unhappy, so she asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He recognised why Mrs E wanted to 
cancel her plan, but said that as Co-op hadnt done anything wrong regarding Mrs Es plan, 
he thought it was reasonable for the cancellation fee to be charged.
Mrs E didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
At the beginning of November 2023, I issued a provisional decision. The substance of that 
decision is quoted below. Having considered all the evidence, I said: 
This complaint concerns Co-ops intention to apply its standard cancellation fee to Mrs 
Es refund. But I think the circumstances leading to Mrs Es request to cancel  
themselves the subject of a separate complaint  are relevant.
Mrs E has been happy with her plan for a number of years. Shes had no reason to 
reconsider the arrangements made, or think she might be better served elsewhere  
until her husband died and Mrs E had first-hand experience of Co-op as a provider at 
the time of need. 
Its not disputed there were issues with the arrangements for and delivery of Mr Es 
funeral. Co-op has responded to those concerns separately, with recompense and 
compensation being offered. But I think the relevance of those issues is theyre the 
catalyst for Mrs Es change of heart in respect of Co-op delivering her funeral and 
caring for her family when the time comes. And in the circumstances, I can understand 
why Mrs E no longer wishes to continue her relationship with Co-op and why she 
thinks she shouldnt be charged a cancellation fee.
Ive looked at Co-ops terms and conditions. Its clear these allow Co-op to charge a 
cancellation fee where cancellation is requested more than 30 days after the plan start 
date. So what I have to think about is whether that term has been fairly and reasonably 
applied in the particular circumstances of Mrs Es complaint. 
And having thought about that, Im presently minded to say it isnt. To my mind, Co-op 
has focused on its terms and conditions at the expense of its customer service. Mrs E 
has lost faith in Co-op as a provider. The relationship between the parties has broken 
down and Mrs E no longer wishes to deal with Co-op or think about Co-op dealing with 
her and her family in the future. I think Co-op should have recognised the very specific 
reasons Mrs E has for wishing to cancel and in terms of customer service, waived its 
cancellation fee. 
So Im intending to uphold this complaint and tell Co-op that it should cancel Mrs Es 
plan and refund the payments made without applying its usual cancellation fee. I think 
this would be a fair outcome in the circumstances of this specific complaint.
To put things right I explained I was intending to direct Co-op to:
                    
cancel Mrs Es funeral plan and refund the full amount paid. No cancellation fee or 
any other administrative charge should be made, and:
add to the refund 8% per annum simple interest, from 1 June 2023 until the date the 
refund is paid. 
I determined that date as a fair date from which interest to be paid, given Miss Es letter to 
Co-op, dated 1 June 2023, in which she requested full cancellation of Mrs Es plan, but said 
she considered the cancellation fee to be unreasonable.
I told both parties I would consider any new evidence or comments received by 15 
November 2023, after which I would issue my final decision.
Since then, both parties have said the full amount Mrs E paid for her plan has been refunded 
to her. I understand no interest was applied to this payment. Miss E has asked about the 
outstanding interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Ive not received any new arguments regarding the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision. As the payment Mrs E made has now been refunded to her, I only need to address 
the outstanding matter of interest. 
Putting things right
To put things right Co-op should:
pay Mrs E simple interest on the £3750 already refunded at a rate of 8% per annum, 
from 1 June 2023 until the date the refund was paid. 
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
For Mrs E and Miss Es benefit, Id like to clarify that Im not requiring Co-op to pay interest 
dating back to when Mrs E took out the plan. Adding interest to a refund following 
cancellation requested by the customer isnt part of Co-ops terms. But where a business 
has got something wrong  which I think Co-op has here - its our general approach to add 
interest from when the financial loss started. So in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
decided its reasonable to require Co-op to pay interest from when cancellation was 
requested, as Ive explained above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman