DRN-2962732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a Premier annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV,
in September 2019.
Mr and Mrs P were due to travel abroad on 21 March 2020. In the days leading up to their
holiday, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential
international travel and the government at Mr and Mrs Ps intended destination prohibited
visitors from the UK entering the country. So, Mr and Mrs P were unable to travel.
Mr and Mrs P obtained refunds for some of their unused costs and made a claim under their
policy with URV for the outstanding amounts. But, URV said their claim wasnt covered
because there was no cover under their policy for cancelling a holiday due to the FCO
advising against travel.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to URV before bringing their complaint to the attention
of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought URV should accept
part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the
complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in July 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps
complaint.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the limits of Mr and Mrs Ps insurance
cover are set out in the terms and conditions of their policy.
Page six of the policy says URV will pay for certain costs if a policyholder is unable to go on
a trip for one of the following reasons:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative
accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave orders
cancelled.
Theres no cover under Mr and Mrs Ps policy for cancellation of a holiday unless the reason
for that cancellation is one of the above listed events. Mr and Mrs Ps claim didnt arise for
any of these reasons.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps policy doesnt specifically exclude claims arising from changes
to FCO travel advice  but I dont think it needs to. It wouldnt be possible or reasonable to
expect an insurer to list every possible scenario that isnt covered under an insurance policy.
An insurer can define the limits of cover by listing specific events which are insured, meaning
anything not listed isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover for abandoning a trip if a policyholder is delayed at an
airport, international rail terminal or port for 24 hours or more. But that isnt what happened
here.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps claim is covered under the terms and conditions of
their insurance policy with URV.
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to be left in a position
where they had no cover if they cancelled their holiday due to a change in FCO advice but to
also have no cover under the policy if they went ahead and travelled against FCO advice.
But I dont think this was the situation Mr and Mrs P were in.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for Mr and Mrs Ps policy says, unless
agreed with URV, there will be no cover if the FCO advises against travel to the 
policyholders destination. But the IPID doesnt form part of the contract between Mr and Mrs
P and URV. The IPID specifically says the following summary does not contain the full terms
and conditions of the contract which can be found in your policy documentation.
If there is no exclusion for travelling against FCO advice contained in Mr and Mrs Ps policy
documentation, then this exclusion doesnt form part of their contract. The terms and
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps insurance policy dont say there is no cover under the policy if a
policyholder travels against FCO advice. So, I dont think its correct to conclude that Mr and
Mrs P would have had no cover under their policy if theyd travelled regardless.
I understand URV may subsequently have changed the terms and conditions of this brand
and level of insurance to include cover for the cancellation of a trip in the event of the FCO
advising against travel.
URV didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about this  but it didnt have to. Mr and Mrs P entered into an
annual contract with URV in September 2019, based on the level of cover which URV was
prepared to offer to Premier policyholders at that time. It was up to Mr and Mrs P to ensure
they bought the level of cover that suited their needs and theres no obligation on an insurer
to keep existing policyholders informed of any extra cover options that may become
available to policyholders who purchase the same policies at a later date.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I dont currently think there are any reasonable
grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept their claim.Mr and Mrs P said they were very disappointed with my provisional findings, but that they 
had no further comments to make. URV also said it had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional information or evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman