DRN-3961770
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd wont return his funds that a third party bank rejected.
What happened
Mr I made an international transfer through Revolut for $4,244.30, however, a third party 
bank rejected the payment, but Mr I has not received these funds back yet. He wants 
Revolut to locate the funds and return them to his account. Mr I made a complaint to 
Revolut. 
Revolut upheld Mr Is complaint. They said that after Mr I reached out to them on their chat 
facility, their support team checked and informed him that the transfer was rejected by the 
beneficiary bank on 24 October 2022 and the funds should be reverted within five business 
days. Revolut said transfer recalls are only performed on a best endeavour basis as they 
require the co-operation of corresponding and receiving banks, together with an approval 
from the beneficiary, so they didnt have a specific timeframe for the resolution of the issue. 
Due to the challenges and inconvenience of the situation, Revolut credited Mr Is Revolut 
account with £75. Mr I brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Is complaint. She said that she found no evidence that 
the reason Mr Is transfer was rejected was due to a Revolut error. She said Revolut initiated 
a recall as soon as they were made aware of the issue. Our investigator said the recall 
process is also dependent on the co-operation of the corresponding and receiving banks and 
Revoluts internal records show they have been proactively trying to locate the funds, which 
is what wed expect them to do. Mr I asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear to Mr I that although there can be a number of financial institutions involved 
in an international transfer, including but not limited to a sending bank, an intermediary bank 
(or correspondent bank) and a recipient/beneficiary bank, Im only able to consider the 
actions of Revolut as part of this complaint and not any other financial institutions involved. 
This is because Mr Is complaint is about Revolut.
Revoluts responsibility to Mr I here is to ensure that they process the transfer in accordance 
with the instructions he gave them. Once the money leaves them, they would not be in 
control of the funds or responsible for any actions of any other financial institutions here. Not 
every financial institution has a direct link with each other. So they may need to use 
intermediary or correspondent banks who do have links with each other to ensure the funds 
get to the correct destination. 
Due to the payment Mr I made here, it would appear Revolut do not have a direct link with 
the recipient bank  the bank who holds the account of the beneficiary he wanted to pay 
(otherwise they would have paid the funds direct to them). And so they routed this money 
through their correspondent bank who could continue the payment journey. I can see that 
the funds did go through to Revoluts correspondent bank and to the recipients 
correspondents bank. So Im satisfied that Revolut had done what they were required to do 
from their part of the payment journey.
But the evidence shows Mr Is payment was rejected on 24 October 2022. There is no 
reason given for the rejection and the evidence shows it wasnt Revolut who rejected the 
transfer. Unless the correspondent banks made Revolut aware that the payment was 
rejected, then they would not be aware of this unless Mr I informed them the beneficiary 
hadnt received his payment. Thats what happened here. Mr I got in touch with Revolut to 
find out what happened to the payment he made.
So what I would expect Revolut to do here is to reach out to their correspondent bank to 
initiate a payment recall, which they did on 7 November 2022. I can see that they have sent 
messages to their correspondent bank on seven occasions from 7 November 2022-15 
December 2022. The last message they received from their correspondent bank was on 26 
November 2022. This message confirmed they were contacting the bank to retrieve the 
funds as per Revoluts request. Revolut even tried to contact the recipient banks 
correspondent bank on at least six different occasions between 24 November 2022-4 
January 2023, so Im satisfied that they made a reasonable effort to retrieve Mr Is funds. 
While Im very sympathetic to the situation Mr I finds himself in, Im not persuaded this was 
due to an error on Revoluts part. They have processed Mr Is payment in line with his 
instructions, they were not the bank that rejected the payment, and they tried to retrieve Mr 
Is funds on a best endeavour basis, making reasonable efforts to contact two correspondent 
banks involved in the transfer. And they have paid him £75 compensation despite not 
making an error, which is more than I couldve awarded him in the circumstances. Mr I may 
wish to directly contact the recipient banks correspondent bank in order to see if he can 
retrieve his funds. Im aware that our investigator has already gave him their contact details. 
But it follows I dont require Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman