DRN-3955685
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy because she says that Albany Park Limited mis-sold her an income 
protection policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms B took out an income protection policy. She tried to claim on the policy 
but was told that she wasnt covered because it was a pre-existing medical condition. So, 
she says the policy was mis-sold.
Albany Park Limited said they hadnt mis-sold the policy and theyd explained to Ms B the 
circumstances in which any pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered. They didnt uphold 
Ms Bs complaint and so she made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Ms Bs complaint. She didnt think it 
had been made clear to Ms B that taking painkillers would affect if she could claim on the 
policy. So, she thought Albany Park should refund the premiums.
Albany Park asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said it had 
been made very clear that the condition wouldnt be covered. And, they questioned whether 
medical information from Ms Bs GP would demonstrate if shed been receiving treatment.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint. In summary, I said:
Albany Park recommended the policy to Ms B. So, the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that they had a responsibility to make the sure the policy was right for 
her. And, they needed to give her information about the policy which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Im not intending to uphold this complaint because:
I think Albany Park took into account Ms Bs medical condition when 
recommending the policy to her. They explained to Ms B that many insurers 
dont cover pre-existing medical conditions at all but this policy would allow 
her claim if shed not received treatment or experienced symptoms for a 
period of two years.
I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Ms B just because she was taking 
painkillers and she had a pre-existing medical condition. Ms B had set out her 
budget and, as the advisor explained, most insurers dont cover pre-existing 
conditions. And, Ms B didnt suggest that having cover for this condition was 
particularly important to her. Overall, I think the policy offered an appropriate 
level of cover at the price Ms B wanted to pay.
During one of the calls the advisor read out the information about pre-existing 
medical conditions to Ms B. That included an explanation which, I think, made 
it sufficiently clear that if she continued to experience symptoms and take 
medication then she wouldnt be covered. And, in any event, even if the 
information wasnt made clear during the calls, I still wouldnt uphold Ms Bs 
complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
The advisor highlighted the importance of checking the policy documents 
carefully when she spoke to Ms B and explained there was a cooling off 
period. Ms B was sent information about the policy after the call. The key 
facts document says:
It is important that you are aware that medical conditions that are likely to 
continue to need regular or periodic treatment, medication or medical advice, 
are unlikely to ever be covered by the policy.
So, even if I thought the advice or information provided during the calls wasnt 
clear, I think the post-sale documentation remedied any failing. If Ms B had 
any concerns on this point it was open to her to query this with Albany Park 
and cancel within the cooling off period.
Furthermore, even if I thought the policy was mis-sold, Id also still need to be 
persuaded that Ms B wouldnt have taken out this particular income protection 
policy. As Ive outlined above its unusual for income protection insurers to 
cover pre-existing medical conditions. If they do it usually attracts a much 
higher premium. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with I think its 
unlikely Ms B would have been able to source an alternative income 
protection policy, which offered cover for her pre-existing condition, within the 
budget she quoted to the advisor.
Albany Park accepted my findings. Ms B said she was going to cancel the policy and she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy if shed known that she couldnt attend a GP or take a 
painkiller. She said shed been upfront and no one with an ounce of sense would have gone 
near such a policy. 
So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs further comments havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision Im satisfied that the sales call made it sufficiently 
clear that pre-existing medical conditions, such as the condition Ms B disclosed, would not 
be covered until shed been symptom or treatment free for a period of two years. 
And, even if I thought it wasnt clear from the call, I think the post-sale documentation made 
it clear that medical conditions which required regular or periodic treatment were unlikely to 
ever be covered. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, and understand shes upset that her pre-existing condition 
wasnt covered. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons Ive outlined above and in my provisional decision.My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman