DRN-3004209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Everyday Lending Limited lent to them irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in June 2021 which I summarise below.
Mr and Mrs K were given a loan of £12,500 by Everyday Loans in March 2017. The loan was
due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of about £378. The total amount payable,
including interest was just over £22,695.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Everyday Loans needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income 
and expenditure. I said that Everyday Loans was required to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks in order to establish whether Mr and Mrs K could sustainably repay 
their loan.
Everyday Loans asked Mr and Mrs K for information about their joint incomes. It acquired
credit reports and reviewed bank statements from Mr and Mrs K. Everyday Loans allowed
around 35% of their joint monthly income for regular living expenses and it calculated their
monthly payments to outstanding creditors. From what Id seen, I thought the checks that
Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr and Mrs K were reasonable and
proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, on balance, I didnt think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this 
occasion and I explained why.
Everyday Loans calculated that Mr and Mrs K had a joint monthly income of just over £3,415
and were making creditor repayments of around £1,800. Mr and Mrs K planned to use their
Everyday Loan to consolidate around £12,500 of debt from four creditors. From what I could
see, Everyday Loans calculated that Mr and Mrs K paid around £386 per month to these four
creditors whereas the loan from Everyday Loans required a monthly payment of about £378.
Everyday Loans assessed that Mr and Mrs K had sufficient disposable income to afford the
loan.
I think Everyday Loans focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr
and Mrs K on a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was
required to establish whether the borrowers could sustainably meet their loan repayments 
not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments
without borrowing further.
The debt consolidation would have marginally reduced Mr and Mrs Ks monthly outgoings.
But I thought Everyday Loans was aware that even after this debt consolidation Mr and Mrs 
K still had substantial outstanding debt  including at least three higher purchase 
agreements, retail and mail order accounts, credit cards and other loans. I thought Everyday 
Loans ought reasonably to have been aware from the information it had gathered about the 
level of Mr and Mrs Ks outstanding debt, and the number of creditors, that the partial debt 
consolidation was unlikely to help Mr and Mrs K make sufficient inroads into their existing 
debt and potentially increased the level of their indebtedness - given that Mr and Mrs K had 
to repay over £22,000, over the five year term. 
In addition, even after consolidating some of their debt, Mr and Mrs K would still be 
committing a substantial percentage of their monthly income to meet repayments to other 
creditors, which I think Everyday Loans ought to have realised put them at high risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty. On balance, I thought Everyday Loans ought reasonably to 
have recognised that Mr and Mrs K were already having substantial difficulties managing 
their finances and that it was unlikely that they would be able to sustainably repay their loan 
over the extended loan term. I thought in these particular circumstances Everyday Loans 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to them.
I didnt think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs K in 
some other way. But I didnt think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide the loan to 
them. I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence.
Ive not seen any new evidence from either party and the deadline for further comments has 
now passed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided.
Ive not received any new information that changes my mind about this matter. Having 
carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about 
their loan and Everyday Loans should put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs K to repay the principal amount that they
borrowed, because they have had the benefit of that lending. But they have paid interest and
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to them.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr 
and Mrs K made as payments towards the capital. If reworking Mr and Mrs Ks loan 
account results in them having effectively made payments above the original capital 
borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If an outstanding balance remains, then Everyday Loans should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr and Mrs K.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Ks credit file in relation to 
the loan, once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest.
Everyday Loans should give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted,
if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman