DRN-3498052
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) delayed 
the execution of his stop loss order.
What happened
Mr S has a share dealing account with HLAM. He submitted a stop loss instruction to sell 
specific shares if they fell below the price of 1100p per share. On 4 March 2021, the stop 
loss was triggered at 8:39am. However, Mr Ss order wasnt executed until 9:55am at a price 
of 1071p per share. Mr S says hes lost out because of the delay.
HLAM said it attempted to carry out Mr Ss order electronically but when this failed it was 
passed over to its manual dealing desk to be manually executed. HLAM said that it was 
executed as soon as possible but there was market volatility affecting the trade and 
execution times. It referred to its terms to say that it isnt liable for any loss caused by the 
time it takes to fulfil an order.
I sent my initial provisional decision on 29 March 2022 explaining why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. In summary, I explained that HLAM hadnt provided me evidence to 
show what the market volatility was, or how it affected Mr Ss trade. Following that decision 
HLAM sent in evidence to show the market volatility and explained why this affected Mr Ss 
trade. I then sent a second provisional decision on 26 April 2022 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. In summary, I felt the evidence HLAM provided explained 
why it took so long to carry out Mr Ss stop loss order and I didnt think it couldve dealt with it 
earlier.
Neither party responded to the second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision dated 26 April 2022 my decision 
remains the same. I dont uphold this complaint for the same reasons as set out in that 
decision. The relevant extract to explain my reasoning, which forms part of this decision, is 
as follows:
HLAM has provided evidence to show that on the date Mr Ss stop loss was triggered, an 
unusually high amount of limit orders triggered that couldnt be filled automatically. This was 
due, in the main, to the markets experiencing a big US tech sell-off  which had a direct 
impact on the shares Mr S was trying to sell. Specifically, average daily volumes up until 2 
March 2021 were 3.76 million but on 4 March 2021  when Mr Ss stop loss triggered  the 
daily volume rose to 10.14 million.
In addition to the significant increase in market activity, the share price relevant to Mr Ss 
trade had opened on 4 March 2021 5% lower than the closing on 3 March 2021. The price 
continued to fall until it hit its low at 9:36am. This demonstrates to me why the automatic 
trades failed. It was then passed to HLAMs manual dealing desk. HLAM has shown me the 
extent of its queue that day which was a direct consequence of this particular market activity. 
This couldnt have been foreseen and I can now see why it took over an hour for HLAM to 
reach Mr Ss order and carry it out.
HLAM has also noted, following my provisional decision, that the dealer reinstated Mr Ss 
stop loss order because at that point it was able to fulfil the order using the automatic system 
 which is what happened. I cant see that this led to any additional delay.
I understand that this decision will be disappointing to Mr S, but I find that Im persuaded by 
the additional evidence HLAM has now sent through as to why it took so long to carry out Mr 
Ss stop loss order. And I dont think HLAM, under the specific market conditions of that day, 
couldve dealt with it earlier. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman