DRN-3853640
The complaint
Miss K complains about Vitality Health Limiteds refusal to authorise treatment under her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K took out the policy in 2019 on a continued personal medical exclusions basis. A 
moratorium was also carried over from her previous policy with another provider. That meant 
Vitality wouldnt cover any medical problems that existed in the five years before March 2017 
(unless Miss K had gone two years from March 2017 without consulting anyone for medical 
advice or treatment for the condition, or taken medication).  
In 2020, Miss K made claims relating to a wisdom tooth and a hernia. Vitality said it required 
claim forms to be completed before it could consider these. Unhappy with this, Miss K 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Vitality had 
followed its normal process by asking for the claim forms to be completed. 
Miss K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality has provided us with the policy document from 2021. This says:
Sometimes, particularly if you claim in the first one or two years after joining us, we may 
need you to send us a fully completed claim form to help us assess your claim.
I note that Miss Ks earlier version of the policy document (dated 2019) doesnt say the 
above. Though it does still say that sometimes Vitality will require the member to send it a 
fully completed claim form to help it assess the claim. 
Miss Ks claims were made the year after joining Vitality. I appreciate that shed been a 
member of her previous policy with another provider before this, but Vitality wouldnt have 
had access to all medical/claim information before 2019. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Vitality to request the claim forms be completed before authorising her treatment. This 
was in line with Vitalitys normal process. 
Miss K has made the point that Vitality has received information about her hernia from her 
consultant in 2018. This said that she noticed severe pain two months earlier. Miss K thinks 
this shows that her hernia symptoms started after the moratorium began in 2017. 
Vitality has explained that this letter doesnt provide it with a full history of the condition, and 
therefore it still wants information from Miss Ks GP. I note that Vitality also has concerns 
that Miss K may have misrepresented information about her health (in relation to her hernia) 
when taking out the policy in 2019. Vitality wants to see further information from her GP so it 
can consider this further. I think thats reasonable, as I would expect an insurer to carry out 
further investigations where it suspects misrepresentation has occurred. 
I therefore dont find that Vitality did anything wrong here. The claims werent progressed by 
Vitality because it hadnt received the completed claim forms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman