DRN-2802584
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly recorded late payments on his credit 
file, which he says caused his mortgage application to be rejected with another lender.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts that it made an error as it incorrectly reported late payments on Mr Ps 
credit file when it had agreed to give him a payment holiday. 
Mr P says that Barclays mistake led to the refusal of his mortgage application with a third-
party lender, which meant that he has lost £309 per month paying the rates of his current 
mortgage, which he submits Barclays should now reimburse. But while I appreciate the 
adverse information recorded on his file would have likely been taken into account by the 
lender when reviewing his mortgage application, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that this 
was the sole reason for it being rejected. There are multiple criteria that lenders will consider 
when deciding whether to approve a mortgage application, and payment history is just one 
of those factors. So theres no way of saying with any degree of probability whether Mr Ps 
mortgage with the new lender wouldve been approved had it not been for the late payment 
marker. So, in these circumstances I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Barclays responsible for what Mr P considers to be his financial losses as a result of not 
having his mortgage approved.
However, I do accept that the service provided by Barclays in this instance has been poor. 
And I acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this has caused Mr P. Barclays initially 
offered £150 compensation, which Mr P says it subsequently raised to £500. But he does 
not consider this amount to be commensurate to the experience he has had, so Ive 
considered whether, in the circumstances, £500 is fair.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr P, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Barclays have had a much greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which 
Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, stressful and upsetting to Mr P, and 
I understand that he does not feel that Barclays have listened to him. But I can see that it 
has since taken action to remove the late payment markers from his credit file and has 
apologised for its error. Barclays says it has no record of raising its compensation to £500, 
but that it would be willing to honour this in any event. I also consider this amount of 
compensation to be proportionate, and it would be the same level of compensation I would 
have awarded, had Barclays not already done so. 
It follows that I dont consider the actions of Barclays to warrant any further compensation at 
a higher level, as Im satisfied that £500 is fair compensation in these circumstances. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc have made an offer to pay a total of £500.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Barclays should pay Mr P this amount (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of 
receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Mr P should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr P and Barclays as to whether the £500 still remains 
open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of 
it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman