DRN-4398827
The complaint
Mr M complains that Rock Insurance Services Limited failed to issue him with full insurance 
documentation.
What happened
Mr M had a travel insurance policy through Rock (under the AA branding) but he says when 
it came to renewal in 2023, he initially didnt receive any documentation. He says he made 
up to eleven calls to Rock about this and while on one occasion he received some 
documents there was no certificate, insurance schedule nor medical screening information.
Mr M says he continued to chase Rock for missing documentation but ended up getting so 
frustrated he arranged for his bank to recover the premium hed paid via a chargeback.
Rock looked into this matter and was satisfied that Mr Ms documents had been posted. 
They said they find it difficult to conceive that some  but not all  documents would have 
been issued and had no reports of any other problems at the time. And they said they cant 
be held responsible for any possible issues with the postal service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They were satisfied with Mr Ms version of 
events and noted that Rock had been unresponsive and failed to provide evidence to show 
theyd acted fairly. The investigator recommended £150 compensation.
Rock didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too am satisfied with Mr Ms version of events. He has told us of the many times he called 
Rock, not just before he got the partial information but afterwards too. And while Rock say 
they find it difficult to conceive that some documentation was missing he told them it was, 
and Ive not seen anything to suggest they reacted to that in a positive way, such as sending 
a replacement.
I think its reasonable to say Mr M would not have made so many calls if he had received the 
full documentation. Afterall, he wanted the cover, he says he had been a loyal AA customer 
for 32 years and he had paid for it. Mr M also went to the trouble of making a chargeback 
with his bank and will have to go to further lengths to obtain cover from a different company.
These are not the actions of someone who has received the documents they were asking 
for. And while I accept Rock cannot be held responsible if there was a failing by the postal 
service, they cant simply wash their hands of the matter when their customer asks them for 
help. Mr M has said he repeatedly told them about the problem yet they did nothing to fix it.
In view of this, I consider £150 compensation to be fair.
My final decision
I require Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman