DRN-2971954
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy because she feels that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc ("RBS") gave her an 
overdraft during a period of financial difficulty meaning that she couldn't afford to repay the 
overdrawn amount.
What happened
Miss C contacted RBS in October 2017 and advised that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties at that time. In response, RBS provided Miss C with a £1,500 temporary overdraft 
facility to be repaid at the start of January 2018. However, Miss C contacted RBS before the 
end of the temporary overdraft period and asked to be allowed to keep the overdraft facility. 
RBS agreed to extend the overdraft by one year, to January 2019.
 
Unfortunately, in January 2019, Miss C couldnt repay the overdrawn amount and ultimately, 
her account fell into arrears. Miss C wasn't happy about this, and in February 2021, she 
raised a complaint.
 
RBS looked at Miss C's complaint, but they felt that they'd responded to Miss C's advising 
them of her financial difficulties with appropriate forbearance, and that there had been 
nothing in the checks that they undertook into Miss C's financial circumstances at the time 
that they offered her the overdraft that suggested that Miss C wouldn't be able to repay the 
facility at the agreed time. So, RBS didn't uphold Miss C's complaint.
 
Miss C wasn't satisfied with RBS's response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it was fair and 
reasonable for RBS to have provided the overdraft to Miss C when they did, so they also 
didn't uphold the complaint. 
 
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's notable that Miss C has advised this service that the resolution that she is seeking from 
this complaint is that the balance outstanding on her overdraft should be written off. 
However, when a person has had the benefit of a borrowed amount of money - as Miss C 
has in this instance via the overdraft facility - it will almost always be the case that this 
service will consider it fair that the person should repay that money to the business. And, 
having considered all the information available to me, I can confirm that I consider that to be 
the case in this instance.
 
Miss C has stated that she feels that RBS should have recognised at the time that they 
provided the overdraft to her that her financial circumstances were such that she wouldn't be 
able to afford the repayments resulting from the overdraft. 
 
I'm not convinced by Miss C's position here, and I say this because at the time that Miss C 
first accepted the overdraft in October 2017 she'd explained to RBS that her financial 
difficulty at that time was only anticipated to be a temporary measure brought about because 
Miss C had taken time from working to care for her sick mother. Miss C also told RBS at that 
time that she had returned to work was confident that she would be able to clear any 
outstanding balance. Because of this, I'm satisfied that it was reasonable for RBS to have 
provided Miss C with a temporary overdraft to assist her at that time.
 
Furthermore, when Miss C later contacted RBS to request that the overdraft facility, she 
explained to RBS at that time that she was expecting a payment of £3,000 soon and that she 
had work confirmed for the first two months of the year that would pay her in the region of 
£6,000. RBS assessed Miss C's financial circumstances at that time, and this included a 
credit check which appeared to show that, while Miss C had experienced difficulty managing 
her credit accounts some years previously, her recent credit management had been without 
major incident. 
 
Based on the credit assessment and the information provided by Miss C, RBS didn't feel that 
Miss C wouldn't be able to afford the overdraft and so agreed to extend the overdraft facility 
for a further year. And, having considered the information that RBS used when arriving at 
this conclusion, I'm satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for them to have done so.
 
When Miss C couldnt repay the overdraft when the extended period ended in January 2019, 
RBS reviewed Miss C's financial circumstances again and agreed to a payment plan of £17 
per month - an amount that had been offered to them by Miss C. Unfortunately, Miss C didn't 
meet the commitments of that payment plan and her account fell into arrears. However, I 
don't feel that I can fairly censure RBS for accepting this payment plan offer from Miss C, 
given that the income and expenditure information she provided to RBS appeared to support 
that it would be affordable for her. 
 
Finally, Miss C has made this service aware that she suffers with mental health issues. I can 
sympathise with Miss C in this regard but having read all of the notes where Miss C and 
NatWest were discussing Miss C's financial difficulties at various times, I can't see that Miss 
C's mental health issues were brought forward as a point of consideration by Miss C at those 
times. As such, I dont feel that I can fairly censure RBS for not taking these issues into 
account.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that RBS have acted unreasonable on unfairly 
toward Miss C here. Indeed, it appears from the information that I have available to me that 
RBS did provide Miss C with a fair degree of forbearance and did try to assist her in 
negotiating the financial difficulties that she was experiencing. And to that end I must note 
that RBS did make several reimbursements to Miss C's account during this period to prevent 
her incurring charges on the account.
 
It also must be acknowledged, as mentioned previously, that Miss C has had the benefit of 
the money that she used from the overdraft facility, and so Im satisfied that it's fair that Miss 
C should repay that money. RBS have confirmed to this service that their Specialist Support 
Team is available to help her to find a suitable and affordable repayment plan, and I would 
encourage Miss C to contact RBS in this regard.
 
I realise that this won't be the outcome that Miss C was wanting here, but it follows that I 
won't be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss C can understand, given what I've explained above, why I've made the final 
decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman