DRN-3673531
The complaint
Miss R complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent 
her money on a high cost loan so that she was unable to afford the repayments. She also 
complained that 118 118 Money took the money for her loan instalments midway through the 
month making it difficult for her to budget.
What happened
Miss R was provided with a loan for £1,000 on 13 January 2022. The loan was repayable 
over 12 months at the rate of around £111 a month. She complained to 118 118 Money that 
the loan was given to her despite her having a poor credit score and numerous missed 
payments. This caused her to struggle financially, affecting her mental health. She has sent 
to us copies of her bank statements around the time that she applied for the loan.
118 118 Money said it had carried out eligibility checks including verifying Miss Rs income 
and applying average figures to assess her living expenses. It assessed that the loan was 
affordable to her. With regard to the timing of the monthly payment it had contacted Miss R 
following her request to change the date to go through security information but had not heard 
back from her until she made her complaint.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that 118 118 Money had 
carried out a reasonable affordability check, and there was nothing in the checks it did that in 
her view should have caused it to believe the loan was unaffordable.
Miss R disagreed and pointed out that she had had many missed payments on her record, 
so 118 118 Money was irresponsible in lending to her.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss R would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss R would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Rs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
118 118 Money obtained a report on Miss Rs credit status. Ive noted that Miss R says she 
had numerous missed payments on her accounts. Looking at the report, I think it reasonable 
to look at those that were still active at the time of applying for the loan. She had two 
delinquent accounts, one credit card with £465 outstanding, for which she was paying £16 
a month and the other was a mail order account with £1,046 outstanding. The latter was in 
the hands of a debt collection agency and I note she was paying £20 a month towards this 
debt.
Looking at the other accounts on the credit report, which were all credit cards or mail order 
accounts, I think it reasonable to assess that she should have been paying around 5% of the 
outstanding balances each month. These would have amounted, with the debt collection 
payment, to around £188 a month. Her income was assessed at £1,257 a month. So she 
would have been paying around 24% of her income towards her credit commitments. Unless 
there were indicators showing otherwise, I think this would have been just affordable.
Taking into account Miss Rs assessed living expenses (£469) and her rent (£318), the credit 
commitments (£188) and the new loan repayment (£111), she would have had a monthly 
disposable income of around £171, again just about affordable.
Ive noted what Miss R says about missed payments, but I have to bear in mind that this sort 
of loan isnt generally taken up by people with a good credit record. So for 118 118 Money  
to see some adverse entries on Miss Rs credit file would not likely have led it to refuse the 
application. And the accounts that were in default did seem to have agreed payments set up. 
I also take into account that the amount being lent was relatively modest, and repayable over 
a short period of 12 months.Looking at Miss Rs bank statements, which 118 118 Money didnt request to see, I can see 
that she was generally overdrawn by up to around £570 a month (although the credit report 
shows the latest balance as being £0). And she had income from child benefits and a regular 
monthly payment to her of £146, which werent used in assessing her income. And I can see 
she was just managing. Theres no requirement for lenders to look at bank statements and 
again bearing in mind the amount to be lent and the results of the credit check, I cant see 
that there was anything which might have alerted 118 118 Money to look at bank 
statements. Nevertheless, had it done so, I think it still would have lent the money.
So, I think that 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision.
As regards the changing of the date of the monthly payment, Ive noted that 118 118 Money 
was willing to do this if Miss R were to contact it again so this can be set up. I would urge her 
to do so if she wants this to be done. I wont require 118 118 Money to take any specific 
action in this respect.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman