DRN-4501354
The complaint
Mr K complains about Society of Lloyds handling of a claim made under his Structural 
Defects insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. 
Mr K has a buildings warranty policy underwritten by Society of Lloyds (SOL) which covers 
structural defects at his home. Mr K bought his home in February 2020.
In February 2023, Mr K made a claim to SOL relating to issues with his property, including 
problems with a window.
SOL declined the claim. They said many of the issues raised by Mr K were not covered by 
the policy terms since they were not structural issues. 
They also said many of the issues had been  quite properly  raised with the developer in 
the first instance and had either been resolved or the developer had offered to resolve them.
Mr K complained to SOL about their claim decision. And when they didnt uphold his 
complaint, he brought it to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think SOL had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to understand how the policy works. And how that impacts on our 
ability to consider complaints about the policy.
The policy says  very clearly  that any issues arising in the first two years after purchase 
should be raised with the developer or builder.
The developer or builder is expected to address those issues. Although SOL offer to mediate 
between the parties if there is an unresolved dispute.
In that first two years of the warranty policy, there is no insurance cover, assuming the 
developer is still in business and is trying to rectify any faults with the build.
Thats important for us because we are empowered to handle complaints about financial 
services  such as insurance. We are not empowered to consider complaints about builders 
or developers. Nor can we look into complaints about organisations providing mediation 
services.
In this case, during the first two years of his policy, Mr K raised a large number of issues 
about his property with the developer  as the policy terms suggested he should. His 
developer was still in business throughout that period. And the developer made a proposal in 
September 2021 (within the first two years of the policy) about how any remaining issues 
would be addressed.
I am aware Mr K didnt like some aspects of that proposal. However, at that point, his 
discussions were with the developer (who we cant look into) and related to issues raised in 
the first two years of the policy. At which time, there is no insurance contract (unless the 
developer has disappeared or refuses to address any structural defects causing damage).
The developer hadnt disappeared or refused to address Mr Ks issues. Therefore, there was 
no insurance being provided. Therefore, we cant look into those issues.
The many issues raised by Mr K in that period included problems with a window, which Mr K 
believes isnt fitted properly. Thats one of the points Mr K raised in his complaint to us. He 
wants SOL to repair or replace  or pay for repairs or replacement of  his window.
We cant comment on that  and we have no power to require SOL to do anything in respect 
of the window. No insurance service or product has kicked in as regards the window. 
The developer dealt with the issue in the first two years of the policy and proposed a 
solution. They have not gone out of business, and they have not refused to remedy the 
problem. Its not for us to comment on the proposed remedy  thats out of our jurisdiction.
In his latest correspondence with us, after our investigator issued their latest view on the 
case, Mr K has asserted  without providing any compelling evidence  that the builder is in 
fact now refusing to do anything more. 
If that is the case, Mr K should provide evidence to that effect to SOL, and they can then 
consider whether the insurance part of the policy should now kick in. As things stand though, 
I cant justifiably say SOL have acted unfairly or unreasonably on this aspect of Mr Ks claim 
bearing in mind the evidence they had at the time.
The other issue with the property which Mr K has asked us to consider relates to a crack in 
one of the walls. Mr K says the crack indicates an underlying structural defect, which is  or 
ought to be  covered by the policy. 
In this case, Mr K raised the issue with the developer  within the first two years of the policy 
 and they undertook some repair work at the time. But Mr K says the crack has returned  
which seems to be evidenced by the photographs hes sent us. 
It appears the developer believes the crack to be due to shrinkage, rather than any structural 
defect in the build of the property. And, in the case of the crack, the developer appears not to 
be proposing to do anything more about it.
As regards the crack then, Mr K is entitled  under the terms of the policy  to ask SOL to 
consider repairing the damage. In other words, the insurance element of the warranty may 
kick in here, because the developer has said theyll take no further action.
SOL declined this aspect of Mr Ks claim on the basis that the relevant builders and/or 
assessors say that the crack is almost undoubtedly due to settlement in the building and not 
due to a structural defect which would be covered by the policy.Its not unfair or unreasonable for SOL to take that view based on the evidence they had 
when they considered Mr Ks claim. They are entitled to believe the assessment carried out 
by a relevant qualified professional.
Mr K believes the crack has got worse  and continues to widen. If he  or an expert he 
engages  believes the crack is therefore due to a defect in the build, then Im sure SOL will 
consider any new evidence on that point and review their claim decision. 
But again, as things stand, I cant reasonably conclude that SOL have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining this aspect of Mr Ks claim.
Mr K has also suggested to us that SOL acted unfairly because they didnt soon enough 
advise him that he might refer issues about the developer under the Consumer Code for 
New Homes (CCNH). He says that because of that, he missed his opportunity to raise a 
timely complaint under the CCNH.
Weve seen evidence that SOL in fact provided Mr K with information about the CCNH at the 
latest by July 2021, when they wrote to Mr K about his policy terms. So, Im satisfied SOL 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman