DRN-3668329
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined to renew his car insurance policy due 
to adding a young driver on, after having allowed him to do so during the previous policy 
year. 
What happened
Mr R had car insurance with Aviva that he took out online in March 2021. In June 2021 he 
added his daughter to the policy, who was 17 and held a provisional driving licence. He 
made the change online and was charged around £1,100 in additional premiums to include 
her on the policy.
In March 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr R to explain that it wouldnt be offering the option to renew. 
It said the reason for this was because it doesnt offer cover for young drivers under the age 
of 21, so wouldnt be able to offer a policy that included his daughter. 
Mr R made a complaint. He said that if Aviva dont offer cover, then he shouldnt have been 
charged over £1,000 to add her on during the previous policy year. He thought Aviva should 
refund that amount.
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint. It said the amendment to the policy had gone through due 
to a system error. However the insurance policy was in place for the year so Mr Rs daughter 
would have been able to make a claim in this time had she needed to. It initially offered £50 
compensation but later increased this to £100 to make up for the distress its error had 
caused.
Mr R didnt think this was enough, as he said he had needlessly paid around £1,100 so 
Aviva should refund this amount. He brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Unhappy with this Mr R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide if the business has got something 
wrong. And where I find it has, consider the impact of its actions and therefore decide what it 
should do to put things right. 
Here Aviva has accepted that it made an error. It says that the online system shouldnt have 
accepted the change Mr R made to the policy when he added his daughter to the cover. So 
Ive considered the impact of this error.
I appreciate Mr R paid a significant amount to add his daughter to the policy. However, while 
this was an error, Aviva have shown that the policy was in place from this time until the end 
of the policy year. And have confirmed that if his daughter had made any claims, she would 
have had policy cover during this time. So while it was a large amount extra to pay, I dont 
agree that Mr R got nothing for the money. He got the benefit of cover for is daughter during 
the time she was on the policy. 
And while I agree it was a significant amount more than the policy had been when he took it 
out, Aviva has shown that this was the correct amount given its criteria for risk. And, as it 
doesnt usually offer cover to those under 21, it seems that it considers these drivers to be a 
higher risk. So it is understandable that it would charge a much greater amount to offer 
cover. 
Further, at the point Mr R received the quote, he had the choice whether to accept it or to 
seek quotes elsewhere if he considered it to be more than he wanted to pay. But he chose to 
pay the additional premium.
So as Mr R accepted the cost of the premium and received cover for his daughter for the 
remaining policy year. And Aviva has shown that the price of the policy was correct based on 
the age of the additional driver. Mr R received the policy he had agreed to and paid for at the 
time. So I dont agree it would be fair to require Aviva to refund the amount paid for the 
change to the policy.
However I agree that it would have been both distressing and inconvenient for Mr R to find 
out at renewal that Aviva had made a mistake and would no longer be able to offer cover 
including his daughter. He had to take time to find new cover and had to contact Aviva to try 
and understand why hed been able to add his daughter on initially. Aviva has offered £100 
compensation to make up for the distress this error caused and this is in line with what I 
would have directed if an offer hadnt already been made. I therefore think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr R the £100 compensation its offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman