DRN-4017940
The complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 complain about the way AWP P&C SA has handled their claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B1 and Mr B2 booked a multi destination trip abroad. They took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy to cover their travel  this was underwritten by AWP.
On 30 June 2022, Mr B1 and Mr B2 had flights booked to take them to their next destination, 
however, their initial flight was delayed by 23 hours and 32 minutes. They incurred additional 
accommodation and transport expenses due to this delay and missed a days holiday at their 
next destination. Upon their return, they submitted a claim to AWP.
AWP considered their claim and made a £25 payment. It said the policy provided a set 
benefit of £25 for each complete 12 hours of delay and as the delay was for less than 24 
hours, it could only pay the amount for the first 12 hours.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 were unhappy with this settlement, and they made a complaint to AWP. 
They then brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the matter and found 
that there wasnt any cover under the policy for the expenses incurred as a result of the 
travel delay. But she did find that AWP had incorrectly calculated the benefit due to Mr B1 
and Mr B2 as they should have received £25 each for the first full 12 hours of delay. She 
recommended AWP pay the additional £25 owed, with 8% interest from the date the first 
payment was issued until the date AWP makes the second payment.
AWP accepted the recommendation but Mr B1 and Mr B2 didnt agree. They said that the 
£25 benefit payment didnt cover what they had paid out and what they had lost. As no 
agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr B1 and Mr B2s claim is for expenses they incurred for additional accommodation and 
transport when their flight was delayed by nearly 24 hours. AWP has said that they are only 
entitled to a benefit of £25 for the first full 12 hours of delay.
Ive therefore looked at the relevant section of the policy, Delayed Departure  section 9, to 
see what cover is available. It says the following:
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Compensation if the flight, international train or sea vessel you are booked on is 
delayed at its departure point from the time shown in your travel itinerary (plans) 
because of: 
 a serious fire, storm or flood damage to the departure point; 
 industrial action; 
 bad weather; 
 mechanical breakdown of the international train or sea vessel; or 
 the grounding of the aircraft due to a mechanical or a structural defect. 
We will pay: 
Delay 
Up to the amount shown in your summary of cover in total;
The summary of cover shows the amount payable under this section as £25/12 hrs, max. 
£400.
Has the claim been considered correctly?
When looking at the section of the policy wording detailed above, I can see that there is 
cover for delays in departure. And as AWP has made a payment, it seems that the cause of 
the delay is not in dispute. However, as detailed in the summary of cover, the policy 
coverage for such delays is a benefit based on the number of hours the policyholder is 
delayed. In this case, Mr B1 and Mr B2 were delayed for less than 24 hours which means 
they are entitled to £25 per person for the first 12 hours of delay. 
AWP has only made a single payment of £25 for this delay and, as there were two insured 
people on this trip, they are both entitled to this sum. So, AWP does need to pay an 
additional amount of £25 to them. AWP needs to also pay interest to Mr B1 and Mr B2 at the 
rate of 8% on this sum from the time the initial payment was made in September 2022 until it 
makes this second settlement.
I appreciate that Mr B1 and Mr B2 have incurred additional expenses as a result of this flight 
delay, and I fully accept this was outside their control. I understand their frustration, but it is 
important to note that insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for 
the premium). The events they will and wont cover, and what they will pay in relation to 
those covered events, just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. And Im satisfied that AWP has clearly set out the benefit available for a delayed 
departure claim in the policy terms provided to Mr B1 and Mr B2. 
Putting things right
AWP needs to pay an additional £25 to Mr B1 and Mr B2. It also needs to pay 8% interest on 
this sum from the time the initial settlement was made in September 2022 until it makes this 
additional payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned I partly uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA needs to put 
things right as detailed.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman