DRN-4251310
The complaint
Miss D complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her incorrect information about her 
overpayment allowance, which led to her making the payment in the wrong overpayment 
period. It then failed to resolve the problem, withholding a promised refund.
What happened
Miss D told us she has a 10% annual overpayment allowance on her mortgage with 
Barclays. Shed checked with Barclays, to see when she could make an overpayment. She 
wanted to make sure shed used the full overpayment allowance for the year which was just 
ending. But she was given the wrong date, and the wrong amount. So she paid at the start of 
the new year, not at the end of the old year. And she paid more than her annual allowance. 
Not all of the money she paid to Barclays had been credited to her account. And although 
Miss D had asked it not to, she said Barclays reduced her monthly mortgage payment.
Miss D said that when she tried to contact Barclays about this, it just didnt appear to be able
to sort things out. It promised her a refund, but then didnt pay it. She didnt get this money
back for months.
Barclays said it understood Miss D had been told she could pay on either 31 August 2022, or
1 September, and the payment would be applied to the 21/22 overpayment year which was
just ending. She made a payment of £11,000 late on 31 August, it was applied to the 22/23
overpayment year, and an ERC was charged.
Barclays said it then backdated the payment for Miss D, it refunded the £8.85 ERC it had
applied, and paid £125 in compensation. It said it hadnt then realised that it hadnt refunded
the amount Miss D had paid which was over her annual allowance, and it hadnt paid this
onto her mortgage either. So it later paid this amount, £177.06, back to Miss D.
Barclays accepted it had given Miss D some wrong information, but it thought the
compensation it had paid made up for this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Barclays had given
Miss D wrong information, and it had taken a couple of months for her to get back the
amount Barclays hadnt applied to her mortgage. He said Barclays had acknowledged its
error and backdated her payment so that it fell within the 21/22 allowance year. Barclays
had also refunded the £177.06 Miss D had paid, in excess of her permitted allowance, and
the £8.85 ERC that shed been charged.
Our investigator also said Barclays had reduced Miss Ds monthly mortgage payment
because Miss Ds balance was reduced, but when Miss D had asked to keep her payment
the same, Barclays had done that. It had also paid £125 in compensation. Our investigator
thought that had provided a fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint.
Miss D wasnt happy with that. She said the offer of compensation Barclays made, was
made at a point when it still had £177.06 of her money, it hadnt applied this to her mortgage,
and hadnt apparently realised it had just kept it. Miss D said that when she asked Barclays
about this, it didnt seem to know where her money had gone. And she spent many hours on
the phone, just trying to get her own money back.
Miss D didnt think that the offer Barclays made was enough to compensate for the time it
took to sort out its further mistakes. She thought it was important to note that Barclays made
this offer before it even realised those extra mistakes had been made.
Miss D said she was very unhappy now about having to work with the bank going forward,
but that she wasnt able to move her mortgage right now. This case then came to me, and I 
reached my provisional decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I asked Barclays for some further information in this case. It has sent me details of the
transactions on Miss Ds mortgage when her overpayment was made. Its also told me 
that it cannot find the call where it wrongly advised Miss D, although it doesnt appear to 
contest that it gave Miss D some wrong information.
I think there are two issues in this case  the overpayment Miss D made at the end of
August, and her monthly payment amount. Ill look at those in turn.
The August 2022 overpayment.
The transactions on Miss Ds mortgage do show that an overpayment of £10,822.94 
was credited to her account on 31 August. So, although it does seem likely that Barclays 
gave Miss D some wrong information about her overpayment, I think that Barclays has 
backdated the payment, as it said it would.
When Barclays wrote to Miss D on 20 September, about her complaint, it said it had
backdated the full amount of her payment, which was £11,000. And that meant she had 
to pay an ERC of £8.85, because shed gone over her annual overpayment allowance a 
little.
But Barclays hadnt done that. It appears to have backdated the amount of Miss Ds 
21/22 allowance instead, so £10,822.94. And despite the fact that this would seem to 
mean that Miss D didnt owe an ERC for that payment, Barclays still charged an ERC of 
£8.85 to her mortgage. That also meant that a little under £200 that Miss D had paid, 
didnt reach her mortgage at all.
Barclays doesnt appear to have realised this. Miss D did realise that not all of her 
money was accounted for. And she said she had to contact Barclays repeatedly to get 
things sorted out. There has clearly been some confusion about this.
Barclays says it has now paid Miss D £125 in compensation, and refunded the ERC of 
£8.85 that it charged, back to Miss D. It also paid back £177.06 which is the unallocated 
part of her payment. Although Miss D made her overpayment at the end of August, and 
was promised at least some of this money in mid-September, it looks as if none of these 
payments were made until mid-October.
I can understand why Miss D has had some difficulty making sense of this. There 
doesnt appear to be any logical explanation for what Barclays has done. And although 
Im happy that Barclays no longer retains any money which ought to have either been applied against Miss Ds mortgage or returned to her, I can also understand why Miss D 
has not only found this deeply frustrating, but would say she has now lost faith in her 
bank.
All but £125 of the payment Barclays made in mid-October was a refund, rather than
compensation. And I dont think that a compensation amount of £125 makes up for 
whats gone wrong here, particularly considering how long this has taken to resolve, and 
the wider concerns this has raised for Miss D. So Ill think about that, when I think about 
the appropriate amount of compensation in this case.
Miss Ds monthly payment amount
Barclays says that when someone overpays on their mortgage, that payment reduces 
the contractual monthly payment (CMP) which is due. Miss Ds CMP is around £600. 
But it also said that Miss D had a fixed payment amount on her mortgage, so she would 
be paying close to £700 every month, as shed requested. That means shes making a 
small overpayment each month.
I can see that Barclays internal notes say its app will show, as her monthly payment, 
the amount of her CMP, so this will continue to reduce in line with her small monthly
overpayments. But Barclays says that the amount which will actually be taken each 
month will stay the same, in line with Miss Ds request.
I havent been able to see that Barclays has explained this to Miss D. The fact that Miss 
D repeatedly expressed concerns about changes to her monthly payment, makes me 
think it hasnt done so. I think it would have helped if this simple explanation had been 
provided to her. So Ill think about that too when I think about the appropriate amount of 
compensation in this case.
Compensation
I do think Barclays has let Miss D down here. Its initial mistake, in giving Miss D wrong
information, ought to have been easily put right. And although Barclays appeared to be
willing to take action to put things right, unfortunately further mistakes in making the 
required changes have just made things worse for Miss D. I think this has taken up a lot 
of her time, and left her with wider concerns about the administration of her mortgage. 
And I also think that even a smaller issue, like the automated changes to Miss Ds CMP 
in the Barclays app, just doesnt seem to have been clearly explained to her.
For these reasons, I think Barclays should pay a total of £300 in compensation for this
complaint. Barclays has already paid £125, so that means it must pay £175 now.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it would agree to pay the additional compensation Id suggested, because of 
the poor customer service Miss D had experienced. Miss D said she agreed with the provisional decision, and was pleased that the decision 
recognised her frustrations and the time shed spent on this issue. 
Miss D said she noted that Barclays hadnt been able to find the call where it wrongly 
advised her, but Miss D said this mistake happened when she tried to make her 
overpayment, in August 2022. She said she was told then that she couldnt make the 
payment. She agreed that her overpayment had later been allocated correctly, but said 
Barclays added to the confusion by sending multiple letters acknowledging the payment of 
£11,000 had been applied to her mortgage, then another saying a lower amount had been 
applied, without recognising the difference in the amounts. She was glad this confusion had 
been noted in my decision.
Both sides have accepted my provisional decision, and I havent changed my mind. So Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss D £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman