DRN-3263810
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Monzo Bank Ltd.s response to his complaint. It declined to refund him
after he sent £3,980 to scammers.
What happened
I set out the background and facts to this complaint in detail in my provisional decision. But 
in summary Mr R sent £3,980 to scammers thinking he was dealing with HMRC. Monzo 
didnt uphold his complaint as it didnt feel Mr R had a reasonable basis of belief for 
proceeding with the payment. 
I set my provisional decision to both parties explaining why I wasnt upholding the complaint. 
I said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive come to a different
outcome to the investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo
should have reimbursed Mr R in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr R from the possibility of
financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr R was tricked into making the payment. He thought he owed
tax and there would be serious consequences if he didnt pay this. But this isnt enough, in
and of itself, for Mr R to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code
places a level of care on Mr R too.
THE CRM CODE
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
-The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
-The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the 
person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the 
person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Did Monzo provide an effective warning?
I have considered all the warnings Mr R was presented with during the payment journey. In
reaching my provisional decision Ive taken into account whether Monzo provided an
effective warning and if it did, whether Mr R took appropriate action in response to that
warning. Having done so Im provisionally satisfied that Monzo met the standards required of
it by the Code. I think that the culmination of these warnings provided Mr R with enough
information about the type of scam he fell victim, with sufficient impact, that it amounted to
being effective. I say this because:
-it says this is very likely to be a scam and tells Mr R to stop;
- it says HMRC would never pressure him into paying over the phone;
-it explained the common features of the scam, including that numbers could be faked and that a specific 
number should be called to verify the call, importantly this number was different to the number Mr R had 
been called on;
-the warning is bold and red and takes up the entire screen so Mr R couldnt miss it;
-it explained steps Mr R could take to prevent him from falling victim to this scam  that he should call the 
number and to stop;
-and it warned him that if he went ahead with the payment it might not be able to recover his money.
But giving an effective warning isnt enough for Monzo to rely on this on exception to
reimbursement under the CRM Code. For it to do so it must be able to establish that Mr R
ignored the warning. Or in other words that Mr R failed to take appropriate action in
response to the warning it provided. So, Ive gone on to consider this.
Did Mr R take appropriate action in response to the warning Monzo provided?
Mr R has said one of the main reasons he thought the scam was convincing was that he was
told the account he was transferring the money to, was set up in his own name. He says he
had received warnings previously to explain when an account name didnt match, but he
didnt with this payment. In this instance Monzo couldnt check the name on the recipient
bank account because the receiving bank didnt have the same systems in place. Monzo
says where a check cant be made the consumer is told. Mr R received a message that the
name couldnt be checked, that it could be a scam and if he proceeded his money couldnt
likely be recovered. I think having seen this message at the very outset of the payment
journey it should have created some doubt in Mr Rs mind as he couldnt verify that the
account was in his name, especially as he said this was a convincing element of the scam.
Ive also considered the above, in the context of the warnings that Mr R was presented with.
Ive thought about the HMRC and paying someone else warnings that he would have
seen. Monzo has provided evidence to show Mr R spent five minutes looking at each of the
warnings. The HMRC warning said stop, dont pay it takes up the whole screen with a
bright red background. It provided relevant information about the type of scam Mr R was
victim to, including asking him to call HMRC directly on a specific number. He says he didnt
do this because hed been called by a number which appeared on the HMRC website 
although it wasnt the main number. Im satisfied Mr R received that call from the faked
HMRC number before he made the payment to the scammer and I appreciate that a faked
number is a convincing element in these types of scams. But the warning mentioned a
number could be faked and that HMRC wouldnt pressure anyone to pay over the phone. So,
its difficult to see why Mr R proceeded with the payment given the relevance of the warning
to his situation and given that he took some time to read it.
Its not clear why, but Mr R then moved on to a different payment option and selected to pay
someone else. This warning doesnt seem relevant to the payment Mr R was making and
hes not been able to provide a reasonable explanation as to why he selected a different
reason for the payment having already seen and read the HMRC warning. This warning
also explains that telephone numbers can be faked and if he wasnt confident then he
shouldnt proceed. Again, Mr R spent a further 5 minutes on this warning screen and its not
clear why he proceeded at this point.
Finally, Mr R would have seen a pop-up which asked if he was sure he wanted to continue,explaining the consequences of doing so.
Mr R says he was given a number to type into the HMRC website on the payments section
but was then told the it wasnt active and he could only proceed when he had made the
payment. Hes also said when he typed that number in and it worked because it didnt
return an error code and this also convinced him he was genuinely dealing with HMRC. Mr R
hasnt explained where he entered this code on the HMRC website and what was displayed
when he did so. He hasnt said he was then able to access any details about himself or the tax owed. So Im not 
persuaded that a result with a no error code means he was presented
with persuasive evidence he owed tax or was genuinely dealing with HRMC.
When asked what he thought of the warnings he said they were generic and he spent time
looking at them to see if they were telling him not to make the payment  he says they didnt,
so he proceeded. I appreciate its now been quite some time since the scam took place, so
Mr R may not recall exactly why he chose to proceed with the payment. But I think the
warnings did tell him not to make the payment. I dont think the first warning is generic, as Mr
R says, it matched closely the scam he fell victim to. Mr R has said that he was told to ignore
the warnings as it was common for all first-time payees and his name had been blacklisted
so he would see warnings before he made any payments but he should still go ahead. But
this contradicts what he said about spending time looking at the different warnings to see if
they were telling him it was a scam and not to make the payment. Mr R spent a total of 10
minutes looking at the warnings, so Im not convinced he didnt read or understand their
content. Even if he was told to ignore them, I think their content should have caused him to
stop what he was doing and make the checks the warnings suggested he did before
proceeding with the payment.
Having considered what Mr R has said I dont think hes provided a reasonable explanation
for moving past these combined warnings and continuing with the payment. Instead I think
there was enough here that he shouldve doubted what he was being asked to do.
If Mr R had taken appropriate action in response to the effective warning presented
would this have prevented the scam from taking place?
I am satisfied that if Mr R had followed the actions given in the warning messages then it
wouldve been effective in preventing the scam. If Mr R had called the HMRC number given
in the warning then he would have discovered the call he had received wasnt genuine. This
means that Monzo are entitled to apply this exception to full reimbursement and dont have
to refund Mr R the money that he lost as a result of the scam.
In summary
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough under the CRM Code and I think it did. Im
satisfied it provided an effective warning. In these particular circumstances I dont think it
needed to do anymore to protect Mr R as the payment wasnt remarkable enough to prompt
further intervention. Ive also thought about if there are any other reasons why Monzo
shouldve refunded Mr R and I dont think there are. Im satisfied that Monzo did all it could
and acted promptly when the scam came to light in terms of its attempts to recover Mr Rs
funds after the scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I havent departed from the findings made in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why. 
Monzo didnt respond to my provisional findings, so I presume had nothing further to add. 
Mr R initially responded to say he didnt agree and wanted to appeal my provisional decision. 
He said it was unfair that hed spent a great deal of time providing information to our service 
and had to wait a long time for an answer. And our initial answer upheld his complaint. He said he was harassed by the scammers acting as law enforcement to get money out of 
him and told that he would be deported. Information I had already carefully considered when 
reaching my provisional decision. We asked if Mr R had any specific points he wanted to 
raise or that he disagreed with in the provisional decision. He initially asked for more time to 
respond, which we allowed, but we havent had a response since, despite sending several 
chasers. So I have based my final decision on the points Mr R raised in his initial response 
to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy with the outcome and feels he has invested a lot of time in 
bringing his complaint to our service. But Im not persuaded that Monzo are at fault by not 
refunding him. 
Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam but that doesnt automatically mean that Monzo 
should refund him. Ive carefully considered the evidence and the relevant redress scheme 
in place (the CRM code) and based on everything Im not recommending that Monzo refund 
Mr R here. And he hasnt provided me with any new evidence or arguments to persuade me 
that I should reach a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
As set out above and in my provisional decision I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman