DRN-2090436
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused her claim 
brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). This was in regard to a 
hotel booking. She wants refund of the cost of the booking.
What happened
Mrs E tells us that she booked a family holiday in 2018 at a hotel Ill refer to as C. She says 
the cost was over £1,800 of which £300 was paid by Virgin credit card. She says that the 
hotel didnt meet the standards of hygiene shed expected from a four star hotel. And that the 
rooms hadnt been cleaned properly and the breakfast buffet was affected by ants.
Virgin told us it hadnt upheld Mrs Es claim. It said that shed made full use of the facilities at 
the hotel. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was enough information to support Mrs Es claim. She noted that the hotel had waived 
the breakfast charge (£360).
Mrs E didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs E would be disappointed if her family holiday didnt meet expectations.
And I understand that when she originally complained to Virgin that she experienced a 
lengthy delay in her complaint being dealt with. That aspect was dealt with separately but I 
appreciate that Mrs Es overall experience hasnt been as shed hoped.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Es complaint. I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here Mrs E is complaining about the hygiene and service standards of the hotel she and her 
family stayed at. And which was partly paid for on her Virgin credit card.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Its possible that poor hygiene standards might amount to a breach of contract. But I would 
need there to be sufficient information to show that this was the case. I might also expect 
that if standards were so poor as to amount to a breach of contract a consumer might not 
choose to stay for the duration of their booked holiday. Poor servicing of rooms alone, is 
highly unlikely to constitute a breach of contract.
Ive seen details of the correspondence which passed between C and Mrs E. But Ive not 
seen any further information supplied by Mrs E which would support the content of her 
complaint. Im not doubting that she was upset by her experience. But it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to hold Virgin liable for an alleged breach of contract without some substantial 
supportive information.
I should also add that even had I upheld the complaint, Mrs E wouldnt have been entitled to 
a full refund. Where a contract has been part-performed (Mrs E and her family having had 
use of the accommodation and facilities during their stay) the hotel wouldve been entitled to 
be paid for this. The waiving of the breakfast charge in itself is likely to have covered any 
potential award.
In summary, I find that Virgin acted fairly in considering Mrs E s claim.  And that based on 
the information available it reached a reasonable view in not upholding it. I shant be asking 
it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman