DRN-4277960
The complaint
Mr C complained that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, trading as My Community Bank 
(BSCU) irresponsibly granted a personal loan in November 2022 that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr C took out a loan of £3,000, over a term of 24 months. The monthly 
payment was £167.54.
Mr C has complained that the loan was unaffordable at the time of application. He said this 
was one of a number of loans taken out at high interest rates to repay other debts, and that 
the payments were unsustainable. Mr C mentioned having taken out five other loans in the 
preceding six months, and he thinks that a thorough assessment of his credit record 
wouldve shown these, along with high credit card balances, recent missed payments, and a 
history of permanently being in his overdraft. He said that further checks shouldve been 
conducted, and bank statements requested to support the lending decision, and that these 
wouldve shown the loan to be unaffordable. Mr C has also mentioned having gambling 
problems when he took out the loan. 
Mr C thinks that BSCU should refund all interest and charges, and remove any negative 
information from his credit file.
Mr C complained to BSCU about this. BSCU said it had carried out appropriate checks 
before granting the loans, and told Mr C that it did not uphold his complaint. 
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it, and although 
he thought that BSCU ought to have carried out further checks before lending to Mr C, he 
felt that those checks would nonetheless have shown that the loan repayments were 
sustainable. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree, and asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether BSCU completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to make the repayments on 
each loan account in a sustainable way.
Mr C sent in a copy of his full credit file, and bank statements for the months preceding his 
loan application, BSCU provided a copy of the loan agreement, and details of the checks it 
carried out before granting the loan. 
BSCU said in its final response letter to Mr C that it used information from a credit reference 
agency (CRA) and found the following:
There was one hard search in the previous 3 months
Mr C had approximately £1,314 per month in credit commitments, and £529.50 on 
mortgage repayments
There were no insolvency records or delinquencies registered
Mr C had two active credit accounts opened in the last 3 months with a balance of 
approximately £10,500 
There were no payday loans
BSCU further said that Mr C had declared a gross annual income of £100,000, which it 
verified from the CRA records, and it used data from the Office of National Statistics to 
estimate living expenses and an additional buffer. BSCU concluded that after taking 
account of all expenditure  including the repayments on recent loans  and all of the 
information from Mr Cs credit report, he would still have enough disposable income to meet 
the monthly loan repayments sustainably. 
Looking at the information BSCU provided about its checks, I can see that it had had used a 
monthly income of £3,000 in its calculations  which is lower than Mr Cs stated income. It 
had identified two loans recently taken out by Mr C, as it stated in its final response. I am 
conscious that Mr C had taken out a further loan in the week before applying to BSCU, but 
this would not have shown up on CRA records in such a short time (and neither is it likely to 
have appeared on Mr Cs bank statements by then had BSCU requested them) so its not 
unreasonable for BSCU to have been unaware of it. The checks also showed some late 
repayments in the preceding six months. 
I also note from the checks that BSCU had identified credit and mortgage commitments of 
just under £1,850, and taken together with the estimate of living expenses, this didnt leave a 
great deal of disposable income after taking account of the new loan payment. 
So taking all this into account, I think BSCU should have carried out further checks before 
granting the loan, for example making enquiries about Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
As I noted above, I have copies of Mr Cs bank statements for the months leading up to the 
loan, along with his credit history. The figures used by BSCU for credit commitments and 
living expenses are consistent with whats on the statements. And from whats on Mr Cs 
credit history, theres no evidence of excessively high credit card balances, or high overdraft 
limits. However, Mr Cs monthly income as shown on the statements is significantly higher 
than that used by BSCU  but is consistent with Mr Cs declared income of £100,000 as 
noted above. So even after allowing for all of Mr Cs commitments, including the loan taken 
immediately before the application to BSCU, Im satisfied that Mr C was left with sufficient 
disposable income to sustainably meet the monthly repayments on the loan from BSCU.
I accept that Mr C had a number of credit commitments, some quite recent, and Ive thought 
about this very carefully. However, the overall level of unsecured borrowing relative to Mr Cs income does not seem excessive, and I can see that BSCU took account of this in its 
assessment, using the information from the CRA. And the loan from BSCU was for a 
relatively low amount. 
I also note that Mr C has said that, when he applied for the loan from BSCU, he was 
transferring money from his current account to another account, and was using these funds 
for gambling transactions. And I can see from Mr Cs bank statements that there are indeed 
a number of transfers out to another account in his name. Again, Ive considered this point 
very carefully, and Im mindful of the distress that gambling problems can cause, but set 
against this Ive no evidence that BSCU was made aware of Mr Cs gambling transactions, 
and the transfers shown on the bank statements are not identifiable as being related to 
gambling. So even if BSCU had requested bank statements to make further checks on Mr 
Cs circumstances, I dont think it could reasonably have known about any gambling issues 
on the part of Mr C, so I dont think it did anything wrong in this regard.
In summary, whilst I consider that BSCU should have carried out further checks before 
granting the loan to Mr C, I dont have sufficient evidence to suggest that, if it had done so, it 
would have found that the repayments on the proposed loan would have been unaffordable 
or unsustainable. So my conclusion is that BSCU did not act unfairly in granting the loan to 
Mr C, and therefore I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman