DRN-3359799
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In 
January 2020, he was injured whilst on a skiing trip. Mr S contacted UKI and it told him 
that hed need to provide a medical report before it could make a decision about whether 
he was covered for repatriation costs and that he could fly home if he couldnt continue 
his trip. Mr S obtained a medical report on the same day he spoke with UKI and 
contacted UKI again. Mr S wasnt able to scan or fax the medical report and, without 
seeing it, UKI said that there was no medical reason for repatriation.  
Mr S complained that his trip to the doctors for a medical report was a waste of time and 
money and the delay it caused in his return home meant that his return flight was more 
expensive than if hed returned home earlier, without going to the doctors. He wants UKI 
to reimburse his excess due under the policy and the increased cost of his return flight.
In response to Mr S complaint, UKI agreed that it gave him incorrect information. UKI 
said that it shouldnt have told Mr S during his first call that it may cover his claim for 
curtailment if he couldnt ski. It also said that during Mr S second call, it shouldnt have 
declined his claim without considering the medical report. It paid Mr S compensation of 
£75.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that this service 
couldnt deal with Mr S concerns about the information UKI gave him in the phone calls 
as hed referred those concerns to us too late. The investigator said that as UKI didnt 
address the outcome of Mr S claim in its final decision, she could consider that part of 
Mr S complaint. She said that UKI hadnt treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining his claim as he hadnt provided medical evidence required by his policy. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint. 
This decision deals with the part of Mr S complaint concerning the outcome of his claim. 
Theres a separate decision explaining why we cant look at Mr S concerns about the 
phone calls he had with UKI in January 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section C
-Cutting short your trip (after your trip has started)
What is covered
1. Curtailment
 We will cover you for your
unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities);
reasonable additional accommodation costs to allow you to return home early; 
and
reasonable additional travel costs to allow you to return home early if you cannot 
use your return ticket 
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to abandon your 
trip while you are away for one of the following reasons:
One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill:
-any insured person
-[]
Special Conditions
All claims for death, injury, illness or quarantine must be supported by 
relevant medical certificates from a doctor, which must be obtained at your 
own expense as well as any other supporting documents that we reasonably 
require in support of your claim.
What is not covered
We will not cover
[]
any claim resulting from you not enjoying your trip;
any claim for any costs that were not authorised by our emergency 
assistance service before you returned home;
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr S complaint because I dont think that UKI treated him unfairly in 
declining his claim. I say that because:
In March 2021, UKI told Mr S that it required evidence that it was medically 
necessary to curtail his trip. I dont think that UKI treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably in asking Mr S for that evidence. My understanding is that the medical 
report Mr S obtained on the day he spoke with UKI in January 2020 doesnt show 
that he was seriously injured such that his trip should be curtailed. As Ive set out 
above, Mr S policy requires him to provide relevant medical evidence in support of 
his claim and he hasnt done so in this case. So, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. 
Whilst it doesnt alter the outcome here, I note that Mr S says that he was skiing with 
a group and didnt want to stay after hed been injured but would have done so if hed been on a trip with his family. Mr S policy excludes claims arising from him not 
enjoying his trip. 
I dont think that UKI was at fault in declining Mr S claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman