DRN-3756539
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy as he believes he was misled about the price of a car he acquired using a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
Mr A acquired a used car in March 2022 funded in part by a conditional sale agreement 
provided by Moneybarn. When he got it, the car was around three years old and had 
covered around 13,000 miles. The cash price for the car was £27,499. This figure included 
Value Added Tax (VAT) which amounted to £4,583.17.
Mr A says he was misled about the price of the vehicle. Mr A said the cars at the dealer 
didnt have prices on them. He said he was never told what the price of the car he acquired 
was as the dealer wouldnt give him a straight answer. And Mr A says he was shocked to 
find out VAT was added to the price and was only aware once his money was taken from 
him. Mr A says this is not something he would be able to charge for if he was to sell the 
vehicle in the future and says if he had known, he would have walked away.
In May 2022, Mr A complained to Moneybarn and requested, among other things, for the 
agreement to be unwound. Moneybarn responded saying they needed more time to 
investigate. Mr A, unhappy with Moneybarns response, referred his complaint to our service. 
He says that he doesnt object to the general payment of VAT on purchases, but is unhappy 
in the manner that this tax was hidden from him until it was too late.
Mr A has since requested an early settlement figure from Moneybarn and the agreement has 
been paid and settled in June 2022.
Moneybarn later responded to Mr As complaint, and said that as the agreement had been 
settled, they cannot unwind the agreement.
Our investigator found that Moneybarn didnt need to do anything further. In summary, she 
explained she thought the cash price of the car had been made clear on the agreement and 
that it was reasonable for the cash price to include VAT. She also went on to explain that, 
even if Mr A wasnt aware of the VAT, she didnt think this would have stopped Mr A from 
entering into the agreement.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator. He says that the VAT was completely hidden from him 
until all the finance paperwork had been signed and the money had been agreed to be paid. 
As Mr A disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr A complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So Im satisfied I 
can consider Mr As complaint about Moneybarn.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) is relevant to this 
complaint. S56 explains that, under certain circumstances, a finance provider is liable for 
what was said by a credit broker or supplier before a credit agreement is entered into. Im 
satisfied S56 applies here. So, I can consider what Mr A says he was told about the car and 
finance by the dealer before he entered into the contract.
Mr A says he wasnt told the price of the vehicle he acquired, until he had signed the 
agreement. He says the dealer wouldnt give him a straight answer when he asked about the 
price. So I have firstly considered whether the cash price of the vehicle was made clear to 
Mr A.
Before the agreement was signed, Mr A wasnt bound by it and wasnt obligated to take the 
car. He could have walked away at any time. I have seen a copy of the agreement, which Mr 
A has signed. It shows the cash price of the vehicle being acquired as £27,499. I think its 
more likely than not Mr A was aware of the vehicles cash price before signing the 
agreement as it was clearly visible on it. I also think, even if the dealership wasnt initially 
forthcoming with its price, I think its more likely than not Mr A wouldnt have decided to take 
the car and sign the agreement without being told the price.
Mr A has also said he was shocked to find out VAT was added to the cash price of the 
vehicle. Ive considered if a misrepresentation has occurred here. I would consider a 
misrepresentation to have taken place if Mr A was told a false statement of fact that 
induced him into entering into the agreement when he otherwise would not have.  
Mr A was given a VAT invoice during the sales process, which clearly discloses the VAT 
payable. And I havent seen enough to make me think its likely Mr A was told VAT didnt 
apply to the car, nor that he was told an incorrect amount of VAT applied. So, I dont think a 
false statement of fact has been given here.
Ive also considered whether VAT needed to be disclosed separately on the agreement Mr A 
signed. But, this wasnt a requirement. And the VAT invoice set out that £4,583.17 was 
payable and that it was included within the cash price of the vehicle. So I dont think 
Moneybarn needs to take any action here.
Mr A says he has lost out as a result of VAT being payable, but I dont think he has. Mr A 
was purchasing the vehicle from a dealership rather than from a private seller, so VAT would 
likely have always been payable.
In summary, Im satisfied that the information supplied shows that the cash price was made 
clear on the agreement. I think it is reasonable for the cash price to include VAT. I dont think 
Mr A was misled about the VAT nor that the agreement was misrepresented. And Im not 
persuaded Mr A has suffered a loss due to the inclusion of VAT within his agreement. So, I 
dont think Moneybarn need to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman