DRN-3092073
The complaint
Mr S complains that the Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has no record of a 
policy he took out in 1970. Mr S says he made the decision to keep the policy in place until 
such time that he chose to surrender it, and thats why he still has the policy document. He 
doesnt accept Royal Londons position that the policy no longer exists and has no value. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr S took out a 15-year life policy in 1970 with an insurance provider. The policy had a sum 
assured of £750. Royal London has since acquired liability for the policy. So, Ill refer to 
Royal London throughout this decision. 
The policy ended in 1985 at which point Mr S says he was given the option to surrender the 
policy or keep it as an investment gaining 6% interest a year until such time as he wanted to 
surrender it.  
In 2021 Mr S contacted Royal London to find out the surrender value of the policy. Royal 
London said it could find no trace of the policy still being in force. It assumed the policy had 
lapsed without value or had been subject to a previous claim. And so, Royal London said no 
monies were payable on it. 
Mr S complained to Royal London and provided it with a copy of the policy document. Royal 
London maintained it had no record of the policy given it ended in 1985. 
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He maintained the 1970 policy 
was still in force, which was evidenced by the fact he still held the policy document. And he 
thought it was unreasonable that Royal London had no record of the policy.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said if Mr Ss 1970 policy 
was still live, Royal London would have a record of it  and its likely Mr S wouldve 
contacted Royal London about the policy at some point over the last 36 years. And she was 
satisfied no record of the policy existed  and that Royal London was not legally obliged to 
keep a record given the policy ended more than six years ago.
Our investigator also explained that if Mr S had wanted the 1970 policy to continue as an 
investment vehicle beyond the 1985 end date, a new product number wouldve been issued 
along with updated documentation. She also thought that because Mr S took out a new 
policy in 1985  this suggested the 1970 had ended which was why a new policy was taken 
out. She also said the policy couldve paid out without Mr S having to submit the policy 
document. 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He thought it 
was possible records relating to the 1970 policy couldve been lost when Royal London 
acquired liability for the insurance provider who sold him the policy. And given he thought the 
policy was still live, Mr S disputed why he needed to have contacted Royal London about it 
until he wanted to claim on it.
Mr S also maintained that if Royal London had paid out on the policy, why did he still have 
the policy document. He said hes received confirmation the policy document must be 
submitted for a pay-out to be made, and he wanted to see evidence from Royal London that 
the 1970 policy paid out, to who and for what amount. Mr S also asked why he wouldve kept 
the policy document if hed thought the policy was no longer in force. He said hed been 
honest with us and couldnt accept that Royal London having no record of the policy meant it 
had paid out  given there was no evidence to support that.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but I 
want to assure him Ive carefully considered all the arguments hes made in support of his 
complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file.  But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
I should say first that Mr S has referred to a previous case weve looked at that he says was 
overturned in court. I look at each case on its own merits, and the outcome of any previous 
case Mr S has had with this service has no bearing on my decision here. 
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I 
must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr S thinks Royal London should have information about his 1970 policy  
either to demonstrate the policy is still live  or to prove the assumption the policy matured, 
and Mr S received a pay-out. But that evidence is simply not available, and Im satisfied from 
the information Ive seen that Royal London has conducted a thorough search  and Ive no 
basis on which to conclude the records have been lost. 
As our investigator has explained, Royal London isnt obliged to keep records for more than 
six years after a policy ends. And the end date for the 1970 policy was 1985  so regardless 
of what happened whilst the policy was in force, the policy as issued in 1970 wouldve ended 
in 1985. Furthermore, if it was still live, Id expect Royal London to have a record of that. 
Mr S says he wanted to keep the policy in place as an investment  gaining 6% interest a 
year. But as far as I understand it, the 1970 policy didnt offer an investment element. Royal 
London has told us that it was a with profits plan that offered bonuses, but no set 
percentage increase. Also, if Mr S had wanted to invest money from the policy, this wouldve 
changed the policy terms, and required Royal London to issue updated information to Mr S. 
Ive seen no evidence that was the case here. 
I can also see that Mr S took out another life policy in 1985  which suggests to me the 1970 
policy had come to an end. And the 1970 policy isnt listed as a live policy on another 
application Mr S made for life cover in 1992. Again, this suggests to me the 1970 policy wasnt live at that time. Mr S has said that given the 1970 policy isnt listed as a lapsed 
policy on the 1992 application  shows it was still live at that point. But I dont agree with 
Mr S here. Theres nothing to suggest the 1970 policy had lapsed. Rather the evidence 
suggests it ended in 1985 as per the policy term.   
Mr S says the fact he still has the policy document for the 1970 policy shows it still holds 
some value. Hes also referred to a pay-out his wife received on another policy where he 
says the policy document had to be presented to secure the payment. I can understand how 
Mr S has reached the conclusion he has. But without any supporting evidence of exactly 
what happened to the 1970 policy whilst it was in force, and when the term ended in 1985, 
and without knowing the processes involved in any claim or payment made against that 
policy, its simply impossible to say that the policy document alone proves the policy is still 
live and holds any value. 
What is evident is that the 1970 policy ended in 1985. And theres no documentation to 
support Mr Ss view it was kept in place for investment purposes. So, I cant say Royal 
London has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman