DRN-3281142
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lex Autolease Ltd mishandled the extension of his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I am satisfied that Mr G was ready to return his car at the end of the contract in May 2020. 
However, the constraints imposed by the lockdown rules meant that this was not achieved. 
The matter was further complicated by Lex when it failed to act on his request. I think it is fair 
and reasonable to treat the extension period beginning on the day after the original 
agreement came to an end. 
I appreciate that Lex see it differently, but given the circumstances prevailing at the time the 
original agreement ended I think this is the most suitable approach to take and one I would 
have expected Lex to have offered to do so when the matter was first raised.
The remaining issue is the calculation of the sum owed by Mr G for the time he had the car. 
The invoices produced by Lex have been less than clear and it has set out its position in its 
response to our investigators view letter. Given it has included the old monthly charge rate 
for the initial three weeks or so of the extension I consider Lexs figures to be incorrect. 
Mr G has supplied his figures and while these may not be precise I consider they produce a 
fair result overall when taking into account the compensation figure of £125. While one could 
continue to debate the precise sum due I am aware that this matter, which should have been 
relatively straightforward to resolve and could have been settled without the need to engage 
this service, has dragged on too long. I consider that I should look at the complaint in the 
round and the overall impact on Mr G.
Mr G has made it clear he wishes the matter to be resolved sooner rather than later, to the 
point where he has been prepared to accept a lower offer than is fair. As such I do not see 
the need to delay this matter further and I consider the figures proposed by our investigator 
to be fair and I do not see any merit in delaying settlement of this complaint anymore.
In conclusion, I consider the investigators proposals to be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Lex should compensate Mr G as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should refund £691.74 and pay compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman