DRN-3196285
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs S complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined her travel 
insurance claim. My references to IPA include its agents. Mrs S is represented by Mr R, her 
son, in this complaint.
What happened
Mrs S was returning to the UK by plane on 8 August 2020 when she realised shed lost her 
hearing aid. She said she reported the loss to the airline at its airport lounge but wasnt given 
a reference or report by the airline and she needed to board her flight.
When Mrs S returned to the UK she said the Covid-19 situation meant she self-isolated so 
she didnt tell Mr R about the lost hearing aid until he visited sometime later. They say it 
wasnt until then that Mrs S knew she had travel insurance cover through Mr Rs payment 
card membership. Mr R made a claim on the policy on her behalf. 
On 24 September 2020 and 2 October 2020 Mr R emailed the airline asking if the hearing 
aid had been found. The airline didnt reply. 
IPA declined the claim. It said there was no proof of ownership for the hearing aid and no 
evidence the airline was notified of the loss so there was no cover under the policy terms.
Mr R sent IPA the hearing aids purchase invoice from February 2019 and evidence to show 
the airline had been contacted in September 2020 and October 2020. IPA still declined the 
claim but offered Mrs S £50 compensation to apologise for its poor communication around 
the claim.
Mr R and Mrs S complained to us. They said theyd made reasonable efforts to try to get the 
report from the airline given the Covid-19 restrictions. They want IPA to pay the cost of the 
replacement hearing aid.
Our investigator said IPA fairly decline the claim.
Mr R and Mrs S disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary Mr R added that 
when Mrs S told the airline at the airport lounge shed lost her hearing aid the airline carried 
out a search and was unable to find the hearing aid. And the airline hadnt been able to 
provide a report in response to his emails in September and October 2020 as they were 
short of resources due to Covid-19 and he and Mrs S werent responsible for that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and Mrs S but I think IPA reasonably declined the claim. Ill 
explain why.
The policy covers lost items up to £500 for any item, or any pair or set of items which are 
complimentary or used together. 
The policy terms specifically exclude cover for claims for:
Loss or theft not reported to the police or provider of Your transport or 
accommodation within 48 hours and a report obtained
Claims which are not supported by the original receipt, proof or ownership or 
insurance valuation (obtained prior to the loss) of the items lost, stolen or damaged.
The invoice for the lost hearing aid is satisfactory proof of ownership in support of the claim. 
But as Mr R and Mrs S didnt provide a report from the airline to evidence the loss was 
reported to the airline within 48 hours of the loss there is no cover under the policy terms. 
IPA could decline the claim on a strict reading of the policy terms.
I also have to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
IPA said that as Mrs S didnt get a loss report from the airline at the time it would consider 
any emails Mr R and Mrs S sent to the airline, which was a reasonable approach for IPA to 
take. 
However, when IPA knew those emails were sent 24 September and 2 October 2020, many 
weeks after the loss, it considered those emails didnt support the claim. I think that was a 
fair conclusion for IPA to make. The emails were sent to the airline about seven weeks after 
the hearing aid was lost so there is no evidence to support what Mr R and Mrs S say about 
reporting the loss to the airline at the time.
I understand the Covid-19 restrictions meant Mrs S didnt see Mr R for some time and they 
say that until then Mrs S didnt know she could make a claim. But the delay in emailing the 
airline potentially impacted on the claim as the airline and airport policies on lost items say 
they keep unclaimed property for 30 days then dispose of or donate the item. So if the 
hearing aid had been found and handed to the airline/airport its most likely the item would 
have been disposed of by the time Mr R emailed the airline.
Mr R makes the point that he and Mrs S arent responsible for the airline not responding to 
his emails. But the airlines non-response isnt the issue, which is that there is no evidence to 
support what they say about the loss being reported to the airline within 48 hours of the loss 
and the potential impact on the claim by their delay in emailing the airline about the loss.
The claim isnt covered by the policy terms and in the circumstances I think IPA fairly 
declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman