DRN-3428327
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of D, complains that Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac (Allied 
World) declined his claim for theft from his commercial premises because he didnt meet the 
policy conditions. 
Mr M brought the complaint on behalf of the business (D), so Ill refer to both Mr M and D 
throughout my decision.
What happened
D bought a Commercial Combined Policy through a broker to provide cover for the 
commercial premises. The policy included cover for theft. Ds business stock was stolen 
from one of the commercial premises and its yard. The thieves gained access by cutting 
through the metal fence. Mr M claimed under Ds policy for the theft of stock and property 
from inside and outside the premises and for the damage caused when gaining access.
Allied World declined the claim because D didnt have an intruder alarm for the premises, 
which was a condition of the policy. Mr M complained because he said the broker knew D 
didnt have an alarm. He said the broker had visited the premises and didnt mention an 
alarm.
Allied World said it provided the policy based on the information the broker gave it on the 
market presentation document. The document stated that all three premises had intruder 
alarms. 
Mr M made a further complaint because he said the broker had given incorrect information to 
Allied World. The insurer told Mr M hed need to take that up with the broker. Mr M disagreed 
because he couldnt buy the policy directly from Allied World, so it should accept 
responsibility for the information the broker provided. Allied World maintained its position 
because the broker was not one of its agents.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Allied World had considered the claim 
under the policy and it was fair to decline it under the Intruder Alarm Condition. Our 
investigator said Allied World offered the policy based on the information given to it by the 
broker, so it wasnt at fault for the policy being based on false information. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the broker was Allied Worlds agent, so it should take 
responsibility for the mistake and provide cover under the policy. He also pointed out that 
anything stolen from the yard and the damage caused when gaining entry wouldnt have 
been affected by an intruder alarm.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Broker
D bought the policy using a broker, so the broker was responsible for ensuring that the 
information D gave it in response to questions was passed on to the insurer. The insurer 
wouldve made an offer based on the risk it thought Ds premises presented after 
considering the responses.
Ive looked at the market presentation document and it says Ds premises have intruder 
alarms installed. While Mr M says hes never seen that document, I dont think that matters 
here. Thats because its evidence that the broker passed the information on to Allied World, 
so Im satisfied the insurers offer was based on premises protected by an intruder alarm.
As this complaint is about Allied World, I wont comment further on whether Mr M gave the 
broker that information or whether the broker shouldve been aware that the premises didnt 
have alarms. Thats a matter hed need to raise directly with the broker.
I understand Mr M thinks the broker acted as Allied Worlds agent. However, it confirmed 
that the broker was independent. That means the broker wouldve likely looked at other 
insurers and presented D with the best option. Im satisfied that the broker was not acting as 
Allied Worlds agent, so it isnt responsible for any of the brokers actions.
Declined claim
Mr M is unhappy that Allied World declined Ds claim for the theft. The policy schedule 
includes a condition which means theft is only covered if an intruder alarm is in place, 
Intruder Alarm Condition applies.
Looking at the policy documents, this condition is explained further and cover is only given if:
Intruder alarm
1. the Premises are protected by an intruder alarm system in full and efficient working 
order
2. where the intruder alarm specification provides for remote alarm signalling the system    
is
maintained under an on-going maintenance contract
registered with an Alarm Receiving Centre
Mr M confirmed that Ds premises didnt have an intruder alarm. Based on this evidence, Im 
satisfied Allied World declined Ds claim in line with the policy and for the reasons it gave.
Yard property loss
Mr M says Ds external premises wouldnt have been protected by an intruder alarm even if 
one was installed. Thats because an alarm on the building would never have prevented the 
damage to the perimeter fence and theft of yard stock. Therefore, he thinks this part, at 
least, of Ds claim should be covered. Allied World says the policy excludes cover.
I understand the point Mr M is making but I cant agree. Thats because the policy states: 
Property In the Open
Where any Property is in the open the cover is limited to the perils of 1, 3 and 4 only
Allied World explained that theft falls under peril 2. Therefore, the policy does not cover theft 
from the open. And any damage caused, or business interruption, would only be covered as part of a valid claim. Because the theft isnt covered, there isnt a valid claim. This, in turn, 
means the external damage and business interruption are not covered. Its worth noting that 
the policy also excludes cover for damage caused by theft under peril 5.
Overall, Im satisfied that Allied World fairly declined Ds claim for the reasons it gave and in 
line with the policy.
Request to void policy
Mr M said it would be better if Allied World voided the policy and returned the premiums. I 
understand our investigator explained why this wouldnt be a good option and I agree.
If Allied World voided the policy, there would be a record against D which other insurers 
would see each year and possibly rate D as a greater risk. That would be to Ds detriment.
Also, Allied World provided cover for D for perils other than theft, so I cant reasonably say it 
would never have settled any claim. I see no reason to ask anything further of Allied World.
Policy documents
Mr M said hes never seen Ds policy documents; therefore, he wouldnt have been aware of 
the policy exclusion for possessions in the open. Mr M provided the policy schedule when he 
first brought Ds complaint to our service, therefore I think its more likely than not that Allied 
World made the information available to him.
The schedule confirms the Intruder Alarm Condition, so I cant reasonably say Mr M 
wouldve been unaware of the policy condition. It was Ds responsibility to check that the 
details were correct and let Allied World know if not.
Overall, the matter of the theft is not disputed, but Allied World fairly said the policy doesnt 
provide cover in these circumstances. As Ive agreed that Allied World responded fairly and 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, I see no reason to ask it to do any more here. 
Should Mr M wish to dispute the policy sale, hed first need to contact the broker.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman