DRN-3650417
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money recorded 
adverse data on her credit file.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. 
Mrs M opened her Virgin Money credit card account on 26 April 2019 and completed an 
interest free balance transfer. The card was subject to a promotional offer which ended on 
26 August 2021. As such the account became interest bearing once that date had passed. 
When Mrs M opened her account, she registered for access to online and mobile banking. 
Shes said a technical fault prevented her from accessing her account using these methods, 
and left her unable to see her statements. However, this problem didnt prevent her from 
making payments. 
While Mrs M was able to make payments, she says she experience two problems. Firstly, 
she wasnt notified when the promotional offer on her credit card had come to an end. This 
meant she was unaware her outstanding balance was accruing interest. Secondly, on 
31 October 2021 Mrs M paid the full balance shown on her October 2021 statement. 
However, residual interest was charged on the November 2021 statement. Mrs M was 
unaware of this which resulted in a late payment. Mrs M paid the remaining balance in 
January 2022.
Statements
Mrs M says a technical fault prevented her from viewing her statements in the mobile 
banking app. So, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of her account to understand what 
should happen if a customer has a problem receiving/viewing their statements.
The terms and conditions say:
You are responsible for checking your statement each month. You must tell us straight 
away if:
You do not receive a statement when you expect one
You are not able to access your statement
You think something on your statement is wrong.
This term indicates its the customers responsibility to tell Virgin Money, immediately, if 
theyre unable to access their statements. However, Mrs Ms - and her representatives 
testimony, demonstrate that isnt what happened.
Mrs M has said she contacted Virgin Money about the problem with her statements after she 
realised interest had been applied to her account. Ive also listened to a recording of a call 
between Mrs Ms representative and Virgin Money, that took place in early January 2022. In 
this Mrs Ms representative explained that despite the credit card account opening in 2019, 
Mrs M had never had access to her statements.
Mrs M has said shes tried speaking to Virgin Money prior to this January 2022 call. But on 
three separate occasions she was on hold for long periods of time. And on the one occasion 
she finally got through to someone, the call was cut off.  Mrs M says she didnt have time to 
pursue the issue further as shed already waited 48 minutes trying to speak with someone. 
Unfortunately, Virgin Money hasnt been able to provide an audit trail for these calls. Theyve 
explained this is likely because the calls were cut off. This explanation doesnt sound 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms rep says that during the early January 2022 call, Virgin Moneys advisor said there 
had been technical issues with the mobile app. But having listened to this call, I didnt hear 
this mentioned  nor implied in the conversation. As such, I cant fairly say that prior to the 
early January 2022 call, Virgin Money were aware there was an issue with Mrs M not 
receiving her statements. Ultimately, it was Mrs Ms responsibility to tell Virgin Money about 
the problem at the earliest opportunity. However, she didnt make attempts to do so until the 
promotional rate ended  and this was over two years after her credit card account opened. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Virgin Money to do anything to put things right regarding 
this complaint point. 
Promotional offer
When Mrs M opened her credit card account, she would have been aware that the 
promotional offer was for a set period of time. I have reviewed the terms and conditions for 
the account which say:
We may give you a promotional rate. We will take into account your circumstances before 
we do this. If we give you a promotional date, we will tell you what unit is and any fees, how 
long it lasts for and any other information relevant at the time.
The terms and conditions go on to say that the end date for the promotional rate will be 
outlined on the customers statements. And having reviewed her statements, I am satisfied 
they clearly highlighted the promotional rate would end on 27 August 2021. As such, Im 
satisfied Virgin Money did what Id expect to provide Mrs M with information about the end 
date of the promotional rate when she opened her account, and each month it was in place. 
Theres a dispute about whether or not Virgin Money sent Mrs M an email reminding her of 
the end date. Virgin Money has provided evidence to show an email was sent to her in 
August 2021, but Mrs M has said she didnt receive it. While I dont dispute her recollection 
of events, the evidence Ive seen persuades me Virgin Money did send her an email before 
the promotional rate ended. But even if the email wasnt received, I am satisfied  
Virgin Money provided enough information for Mrs M to know when the promotional rate 
would end. And given what Ive said above, I cant reasonably hold Virgin Money at fault for 
Mrs M being unable to access this information on her statements - and thats because she 
didnt make them aware of the problem accessing them at the relevant time. Adverse data
As a responsible lender, Virgin Money has a duty to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies. Its not disputed the payment for the residual interest (which was shown 
on November 2021 statement) was missed, and not paid until January 2022. In the early 
January 2022 call, Mrs Ms representative confirmed the interests charges were legitimate 
charges, its just we couldnt see them. Therefore, as the payment was missed, and no error 
occurred with the application of the charges, I cant say Virgin Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by reporting this to credit reference agencies. I appreciate Mrs M feels this is 
unfair as she was unable to access her statements. However as discussed above, 
Virgin Money were unaware of this and as such cant be held responsible. I can see as a 
gesture of goodwill Virgin Money agreed to refund £50 of the charges which had 
accumulated. This is more than I would have asked them to do in the circumstances, so 
I wont be asking them to do anything further to resolve this complaint point.
Service
I understand that Mrs Ms representative feels Virgin Money ought to have notified Ms M that 
there was an outstanding balance on the account. And while this would have been helpful, I 
dont think it is reasonable to suggest Virgin Money manage a customers account to this 
extent. The terms and conditions are clear that it is the customers responsibility to check 
their statements and ensure they meet the minimum payment.
Throughout the handling of the complaint, there has been some confusion about whether 
credit refence agencies had been informed about the missed payment. During the 
January 2022 call, the advisor confirmed credit reference agencies had been notified in 
December 2021. However, I accept that since then there has been some confusion 
(including in information sent to our service) regarding this. It wasnt helpful conflicting 
information was provided about this, but the terms and conditions of Mrs M account outline 
that credit reference agencies may be notified if a consumer misses a payment. As its not 
disputed a payment was missed, regardless of the confusion, the data was recorded 
correctly. 
Virgin Money accepted there had been service issues and offered Mrs M £20 for the 
inconvenience she experienced. I have also taken into consideration that it refunded £50 of 
the legitimate charges accumulated on the account. Therefore, I am satisfised the 
compensation awarded accurately reflects the inconvenience and miscommunication Mrs M 
experienced. In turn, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman