DRN-3126089
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the fees being charged by Goodwin Barrett Ltd, after it represented 
her with regards to concerns around investment mis-sale. Mrs M also feels that the service 
she received from Goodwin Barrett Ltd was poor.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs M wanted to raise a claim about an investment she felt was mis-sold to 
her. And so, on hearing about Goodwin Barrett, she contacted it, and asked for it to 
represent her in respect of this.
Mrs M completed and signed Goodwin Barretts instruction form. Within this information, it 
was noted that Goodwin Barretts fee would be 40%, plus VAT (48%) of the money 
recovered from the mis-sale claim being made. 
Goodwin Barrett represented Mrs M on this basis. And in September 2020, Goodwin Barrett 
was informed by the party that sold the investment to Mrs M, that it had written to her, noting 
her claim was successful. It had offered her £15,900.25, and this had been paid to Mrs M in 
that September. 
Goodwin Barrett then invoiced Mrs M for its fee  this being the 48% noted above. Mrs M 
was dissatisfied with this  and felt the fee Goodwin Barrett was invoicing her for was 
unreasonable. She noted that the service shed received from Goodwin Barrett had been 
poor. For example, Mrs M said shed had to do a lot of work in relation to the matter herself, 
had needed to chase Goodwin Barrett, hadnt received calls back when asked, and she felt 
the fee being charged was disproportionate to the work Goodwin Barrett actually did.
Goodwin Barrett responded to Mrs Ms concerns. It agreed that it could that there had been 
some failings in the customer service provided to Mrs M. It noted there were times when it 
phoned her, when she had made clear that she required email. And there were occasions 
where Mrs M had called, and someone was supposed to return this call within specific times 
but didnt. In addition to this, Goodwin Barrett said it could have better managed Mrs Ms 
expectations by letting her know that her claim could take up to 12 months, as Goodwin 
Barrett was aware that the party the claim was against were experiencing delays.
However, Goodwin Barrett said it did complete the work to make Mrs Ms claim as agreed. 
And it didnt agree with Mrs Ms comments that it did little or no work on the matter. It said it 
had made its fee clear to Mrs M. But, in recognition of Mrs Ms complaint points it was willing 
to reduce its fee from 40% plus VAT to 30% plus VAT. Meaning that instead of owing 
Goodwin Barrett £7,532.12 in fees, Mrs M would instead owe £5,724.09  a reduction of 
£1,908.03.
As Mrs M remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. On referring her complaint to this service, Mrs M said shed like 
Goodwin Barrett to reduce its fee to 20% plus VAT to resolve her complaint.
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
the investigator noted that Goodwin Barretts fees had been made clear to Mrs M when she 
appointed them, so he didnt think it had acted unfairly in the invoice it had originally asked 
Mrs M to pay.
He agreed there were customer service failings on Goodwin Barretts part. But he felt the 
10% reduction in its fee was fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs M for this. So, he didnt 
recommend that Goodwin Barrett do anything more than it had already offered to do. 
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary she said;
Goodwin Barretts assertion that it sent her monthly updates via email wasnt true. 
And our investigator noting he thought these were likely sent, meant he was doubting 
the validity of the information shed provided.
Goodwin Barrett has inconvenienced her, by her needing to follow up on complaints 
about the service she received. 
The money she received in response to her mis-sale claim was her money, and 
therefore Goodwin Barrett werent doing any favours by reducing their fee.
That she had been promised a stress-free journey with Goodwin Barrett, but the 
situation was anything but stress-fee. She had been stressed and inconvenienced by 
the matter.
Because Mrs M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I wont be requiring Goodwin 
Barrett to do anything more than its already offered to do. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mrs M. Its clear that she feels strongly about the matter. But Ive explained 
the reasoning behind my decision below.
Mrs M appointed Goodwin Barrett to represent her, in October 2019. So, Ive looked at the 
terms of the agreement that was signed up to. Thats because it forms the contract agreed. 
From looking at these, I can see that the following was explained in terms of the fee that 
would be due to Goodwin Barrett;
Goodwin Barrett will endeavour to recover all monies in respect of my claim and undertake 
to forward any payment from my bank or financial adviser to me within seven days from the 
date received, subject to the agreed fee of 40% plus VAT  total fee payable 48%. We 
require that you promptly pay the fee no later than 7 days after you receive your 
compensation (if you are paid direct)
Given the above, Im satisfied it was made clear that the fee owed to Goodwin Barrett, on 
successful recovery of monies was the 48% mentioned. And so, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Goodwin Barrett to invoice Mrs M for this fee.
Mrs M has raised that the money she received from the mis-sale claim is her money. And I 
agree. But that doesnt change that she agreed to pay part of this money, as Goodwin 
Barretts fee  as stated above. The terms and conditions Mrs M signed explained that Mrs 
M could pursue a claim for a mis-sold investment myself directly with my bank or financial 
adviser and use the free services of the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) to do so. But Mrs M agreed for Goodwin Barrett to represent her, being aware of the above. And so, this 
doesnt change my decision that Goodwin Barrett acted fairly in the invoice it provided 
initially. 
I do understand that Mrs M feels the amount of work involved doesnt justify the fee charged 
by Goodwin Barrett. But the fee was set and agreed to at the outset. The agreed fee was 
based on successful recovery of the money, rather than a certain level of work completed. 
So, I dont think this changes the outcome of this complaint.
Mrs M has said that Goodwin Barrett didnt provide her with the service she agreed to, and 
instead the experience was far from hassle free. So, Ive looked at what happened here. I do 
think that Goodwin Barrett did what it needed to  in terms of pursuing the claim against the 
third party, and recovering the money for Mrs M. 
I say this because Ive seen evidence that Goodwin Barrett raised the claim with the third 
party in a timely manner, once having established why Mrs M felt the investment was mis-
sold to her. It received regular correspondence from the third party by way of an update on 
the claim. And ultimately, the claim it made on Mrs Ms behalf did result in a successful 
claim. So, it did carry out the work it was appointed to do.
I also note that Mrs M has said she liaised with the third party directly too. And she felt she 
had to do a lot of legwork in respect of the claim. But I dont hold Goodwin Barrett 
responsible for any contact the third party may have had with Mrs M directly. Thats the third 
partys decision. In its terms and conditions Goodwin Barrett did make it clear that the third 
party may contact Mrs M. So, I think it was clear with Mrs M about this. Given this I dont 
think Goodwin Barrett has done anything wrong in this respect.
I do however, agree there were times when Goodwin Barrett fell short in terms of some of 
the customer service provided to Mrs M. I can see there were times when Goodwin Barrett 
was actively trying to liaise with Mrs M, but was unsuccessful. But I can see, and Goodwin 
Barrett has accepted, that there were times when its communication was poor  with it 
calling rather than emailing at times, or not calling back on occasions when agreed. 
I also agree with Goodwin Barrett that it could have let Mrs M know that whilst a response 
from a third party is usually expected within eight weeks, that there were significant delays 
on the third partys end. These delays may have been out of Goodwin Barretts control. But it 
could have let Mrs M know that claims were, in some cases, taking around 12 months for a 
response. I do think that if Goodwin Barrett had given Mrs M this information, it would have 
given her a clearer picture of what was happening, and why. And, it would have alleviated 
some of Mrs Ms distress about the time being taken. 
Goodwin Barrett has said that it sent Mrs M monthly emails, providing her with updates on 
her claim. Mrs M says the information Goodwin Barrett has provided to this service in this 
regard isnt accurate, and that she didnt receive these regular updates. Ive seen 
screenshots from Goodwin Barretts systems, which show a log of emails being sent. But 
Ive also seen evidence from Mrs M, raising that she didnt receive particular emails, or 
emails were sent at slightly different times of the day to the log Goodwin Barrett holds. Given 
the contradictory evidence about these emails, Im not able to confidently say how many of 
these were received by Mrs M, and how many werent. But I dont think it changes the 
outcome of this complaint. I say this because it is already recognised that the communication 
fell short, and Ive considered this when deciding whether Goodwin Barretts offer in relation 
to this is fair.In this instance, Goodwin Barrett has offered a 10% reduction in the fee agreed, in 
recognition of the above-mentioned service failings. So, Ive considered very carefully 
whether I think this offer is fair.
And having done so, I think it is. So, I wont be asking Goodwin Barratt to do anything more. 
Goodwin Barrett could have improved its communication, and this would have lessened Mrs 
Ms concerns about what was happening and when. 
But I think the 10% fee reduction, which equates to £1,908.03, reasonably recognises the 
upset and inconvenience Mrs M experienced due to the above communication issues, such 
as needing to chase Goodwin Barrett for responses at times. Its more than this service 
would generally offer for circumstances such as this. And ultimately, whilst the service did 
fall short at times, this wouldnt have altered the time it took for the claim outcome to be 
reached. And, Goodwin Barratt did want it needed, to secure Mrs M her refund.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I consider Goodwin 
Barrett Ltds offer to reduce Mrs Ms fee to 30% plus VAT to be fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman