DRN-3677476
The complaint
Ms P has complained to Phoenix Life Assurance Limited that it caused unnecessary delays 
in transferring two personal pension policies (PPPs) to a new pension provider. Ms P has 
said that she needed to become involved in the transfer process to ensure it was completed.
What happened
Phoenix received a request from Ms P for transfer forms on 21 June 2020 and it posted 
these to her on 24 June 2020. These forms included documents which needed to be sent to 
the new provider  Royal London. They included a discharge form, a transfer questionnaire, 
and a declaration form.
Phoenix reissued these forms on 3 July 2020. Ms P then signed Royal Londons letter of 
authority and sent it to that provider on 20 July 2020.
Ms P then called Phoenix three times on 23 July 2020 enquiring about the status of the 
transfer. It transpired that Royal London had sent Phoenix an email, but Phoenix hadnt been 
able to open this as it was encrypted. On 29 July 2020, Ms P spoke to Royal London, and 
thereafter Phoenix called Ms P to confirm that it had received the email and that it would be 
processed within two days.
On 30 July 2020, Phoenix contacted Ms P to say that it couldnt open the email from Royal 
London, but it nevertheless sent the requested information to Royal London on the same 
day. And a further transfer quote was issued to Ms P on 31 July 2020.
Royal London then created a transfer request using the ORIGO system on 5 August 2020 
and this showed an expected completion date of 17 August 2020. Ms P complained to 
Phoenix on the same day.
On 6 August 2020, Phoenix confirmed to Ms P that the pension funds had been transferred, 
and these were received by Royal London on 10 August 2020. 
Phoenix responded to Ms Ps complaint by letter on 30 September 2020, but Ms P has said 
that she didnt receive this. She emailed Phoenix on 26 October 2020, and then again on 17 
November 2020 and was then informed that the outcome had been posted on 30 September 
2020  but that it would post a further copy to her. 
Phoenix then contacted Ms P further on 1 December 2020 saying that the email received on 
23 July 2020 wasnt sufficient to be able to transfer the pension funds and that it had needed 
to issue new transfer documentation.
Ms P referred her complaint to this service in November 2020, and it was considered by one 
of our investigators. He thought the complaint should be upheld, saying in summary that 
although Phoenix informed Ms P that it had located the email from Royal London on 29 July 
2020  five working days after the first contact from Royal London  that email hadnt 
included the necessary documentation to process the transfer and it was when the ORIGO 
request was received on 5 August 2020 that Phoenix was then able to transfer the fund the 
next day.
He concluded that Phoenix hadnt materially delayed the transfer, but he did think that it 
could have kept Ms P better informed during the transfer process, especially once shed felt 
the need to become involved to speed things up. As an example, he said that Phoenix hadnt 
explained to Ms P at the time that the request from Royal London on 23 July 2020 had been 
insufficient to process the transfer. Nor did it do so in its response to her complaint on 30 
September 2020. Although not caused by Phoenix, this was material to the delay incurred, 
and the investigator considered this to be a significant omission.
Although Ms P then tried to intervene to resolve the issue of the encrypted email issued by 
Royal London on 23 July 2020, the investigator didnt think that this should have been up to 
her, and that both Phoenix and Royal London should have worked together to resolve it.
And whilst the investigator acknowledged that Phoenixs service level for dealing with 
correspondence was ten working days, he didnt think that this should apply to every touch 
point of the process, especially where a transfer or dealing instruction had been provided.
He noted that Ms P had provided a call log which consisted of 17 phone calls to Phoenix, 
amounting to over two hours. Ms P had said that this had cost her around £32. And there 
had also been several outbound calls made to Ms P by Phoenix.
The investigator concluded that this would have caused Ms P a significant amount of 
inconvenience, when all that she should have needed to do was complete the relevant 
transfer forms. As such, he recommended that Phoenix pay to her both the cost of the calls 
and an additional sum of £250 in respect of the trouble and upset the matter had caused her.
Ms P agreed with the investigators conclusion, but Phoenix didnt, saying that it had 
reviewed the calls between it and Ms P on 23 July, 29 July and 30 July 2020, and that in 
each of the calls Ms P was aware that Royal London hadnt completed the transfer 
documents. It said that Ms P had confirmed that Royal London wouldnt do so until it had 
received the relevant policy information from Phoenix.
The call handler had told Ms P that there was a ten day service standard to provide the 
policy information, but that if the ORIGO system was used, it would be the quicker route. 
Phoenix also said that it had already sent the policy information to Ms P, which should have 
sufficed for Royal Londons purposes. 
With regard to accessing the email from Royal London, the call centre staff didnt have 
access to such emails, but the call handler had said that they would prioritise the matter with 
the administration team.
Phoenix said that it hadnt taken five days to locate the email from Royal London on 23 July 
2020. It was uploaded on 28 July 2020 and identified as being encrypted on the same day. 
The call centre team leader contacted Royal London on 29 July 2020 and asked them to 
email him directly, which it then did.
The email was forwarded to the administration team, who responded on 30 July 2020, but as 
this was encrypted, Royal London couldnt open it. Phoenix sent an unencrypted email the 
same day. It had therefore taken five working days to action the email, rather than simply 
locate it, Phoenix said.
It further said that it had sent the transfer pack on 3 July 2020 and the transfer paperwork 
which Ms P completed for Royal London was received by it on 13 July 2020  but it didnt then contact Phoenix for policy information until 23 July 2020.
The investigator considered Phoenixs further comments, but reiterated that his reasons for 
upholding the complaint werent related to the actual delays incurred  which he repeated 
werent caused by Phoenix  but to the omission of important information relating to the 
delays and which he said would have better managed Ms Ps expectations.
In particular, he said that Phoenix didnt communicate to Ms P that the content of the 23 July 
2020 email wasnt sufficient to enable the transfer to proceed, nor was this conveyed to her 
in the complaint response of 30 September 2020. This was Phoenixs opportunity to address 
Ms Ps concerns and may have helped her understand the process.
The investigator remained of the view that Phoenixs actions had caused, or contributed to, 
the inconvenience shed experienced. As such, his view on the compensation payments also 
remained unchanged.
Phoenix continued to disagree, however, saying that Ms P was fully aware that the email of 
23 July 2020 didnt contain the transfer paperwork and was only a request for policy 
information. She had herself made it clear in the call that Royal London wouldnt be 
submitting the transfer documents until it was in possession of the policy information. And 
Ms P wanted Phoenix to send the policy information to Royal London to speed up the 
transfer process.
Phoenix said that Royal London had no reason to request the policy information as the 
information which had already been provided should have sufficed. But Ms P was in any 
case informed that the quickest way of processing the transfer was by ORIGO, which is then 
how the transfer happened.
Phoenix therefore disagreed that it had failed to inform Ms P of the reason why the transfer 
couldnt proceed on the basis of the information contained within the email of 23 July 2020. 
The call from the same day evidenced that Ms P was fully aware of the reason.
It also said that, in its complaint response dated 30 September 2020, it had explained that 
the call centre manager had liaised with the contact at Royal London and had sent over a 
response to the requested information. And it had also explained the situation in its further 
response of 1 December 2020, in which it said that although the 23 July 2020 email had a 
letter attached which requested the transfer, it would have needed to issue a transfer 
quotation and paperwork to be completed and sent back by post.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 28 July 2022, in which I set out my reasons 
for partially upholding the complaint. The below is an extract from those findings.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly I agree with the investigators position that Phoenix didnt unduly 
delay the transfer process up until 23 July 2020. I also think its clear from the call of 23 July 
2020 that Ms P was aware of the reason as to why the transfer couldnt proceed at that 
particular point. Further, Ms P was made aware that the ORIGO process would be the 
quickest means of achieving her objectives, and when this was ultimately used, the transfer 
proceeded without delay.
Theres an additional issue here  and this relates to the nature of the call of 23 July 2020, and the subsequent action taken by Phoenix. Its accepted that Ms P was keen for the policy 
information to be provided to Royal London  this is the basis on which Phoenix has said 
that Ms P was aware that the transfer couldnt proceed immediately. She knew that the 
policy information needed to be provided first.
And so this begs the question as to why, then, the email from royal London needed to be 
picked up and processed. It seems that all parties were aware of the nature of the email 
request which couldnt at that point be accessed. So ordinarily I might be inclined to 
conclude that Phoenix unduly delayed matters here. But I also note that the processing of 
the information request, notwithstanding the difficulties in opening the Royal London email, 
was completed by 30 July 2020  so within five working days of the information request. And 
so whilst its possible that the information could have been provided quicker, I dont think that 
timeframe is necessarily unreasonable.
As it was, ORIGO was eventually used on 5 August 2020 to effect the transfer, with funds 
being sent to Royal London on 6 August 2020, and so this was in any case within a ten 
working day turnaround time from 23 July 2020. 
The investigators position was, in essence, that Phoenix didnt manage Ms Ps expectations 
as to why the transfer couldnt occur on 23 July 2020. But Im currently inclined to agree with 
Phoenix that its fairly clear that Ms P was aware as to why this was the case  hence her 
request for the policy information to be sent. 
Phoenix has repeatedly said in its responses to the investigator that it had already issued the 
relevant policy information  as such, I think Phoenix could also have made it clearer at the 
time that this was the case, but as Ive said above, I dont think that the actual amount of 
time it then took to transfer the funds was unreasonable.
The letter of 1 December 2020 indicated that further information would have needed to be 
sent  contrary to Phoenixs position that Ms P already had the relevant information to give 
to Royal London and I think this would have been rather confusing. But Ms P had by this 
time already submitted her complaint to this service, and so I dont think better clarity on this 
would have prevented, or curtailed, Ms Ps complaint.
In terms of the more general customer service issues here, it seems that, following the call 
on 5 August 2020 in which Ms P raised her complaint, she was expecting a call back to 
discuss it further. It wasnt then until 14 August 2020 that Phoenix returned Ms Ps call to 
discuss the complaint.
However, Ive also noted that Phoenix sent Ms P an acknowledgement to her complaint on 6 
August 2020, in which it said that due to the circumstances relating to the pandemic and the 
home working situation of the majority of its employees, it would only be able to deal with 
complaints via email. And so I think by calling Ms P back on 14 August 2020 (which then 
needed to be rescheduled to 17 August 2020), it was treating Ms P fairly.
Ms P then received what Im assuming was a holding email on 3 September 2020, but 
then, as shed not heard anything further regarding the outcome of her complaint, sent a 
further chaser on 26 October 2020, to which she didnt receive a response. Ive noted that 
Phoenix has said that the reason it didnt respond to this was because it had recently issued 
the final response letter and Ms P may not have received it before she sent that email. But I 
think the courteous thing to do would have been to follow this up and check that Ms P had in 
fact received the final response letter.
Ms P then chased Phoenix again on 17 November 2020, and at that point was informed that 
a response to her complaint had been issued on 30 September 2020.Ms P sent several follow up emails between 17 and 19 November 2020, in which she said 
that shed been offered £50 by a contact at Phoenix in relation to the cost of her phone calls. 
But Ms P didnt receive a response to these.
Phoenix then sent a copy of the final response letter to Ms P on 20 November 2020.
So, whilst I dont think that errors which would warrant compensation were made in the 
transfer process itself, I think there were some service failings that Phoenix ought to have 
appreciated might have exacerbated the anxiety which Ms P was feeling about the overall 
process, and what she perceived to be Phoenixs previous errors. 
And so, overall, and albeit for slightly different reasons, I think that the investigators 
recommendation that Phoenix pay Ms P a sum in respect of the customer service she 
received is warranted here. But given the nature of the actual failings, I think a sum of £100 
is probably about right. 
Ive thought carefully about the proposed refund of the cost of the phone calls, but I also note 
that several of these occurred before Ms P submitted her complaint, and related to the 
transfer  a matter in which, for the reasons given, I dont think Phoenix made any significant 
errors. And with regard to those which Ms P made following the complaint on 5 August 2020, 
as Ive said above, Phoenix had said in its acknowledgement that it could only deal with 
complaints by email. And so I dont currently think that an additional amount in respect of the 
cost of the calls would be a fair outcome. 
Phoenix didnt make any further comment in response to the provisional decision, but Ms P 
did, firstly expressing dismay at the amount of time it had taken for this service to provide a 
reply to her complaint.
Ms P also said that Phoenix had demonstrated a lack of care in responding to both her own 
complaint and to information requests submitted by this service. The failure to respond in a 
timely manner had transgressed Phoenixs regulatory obligations, Ms P said.
Further, Phoenix had lost several call recordings, which both contravened its position that it 
recorded all calls, and also delayed the complaints progress.
Phoenix hadnt taken responsibility for its lack of competence in its ways of working, Ms P 
said, and most of its staff seemed to be untrained and unable to assist with basic queries. It 
should either compensate customers for the poor service, or cease to operate, she added.
Ms P also said that the proposed redress didnt take into account how badly shes been 
treated as a customer and that at one point she had effectively been the liaison person 
between Phoenix and Royal London. Had she not been, the transfer would never have 
happened, she said.
Although Phoenix had made many mistakes throughout the complaint process, it hadnt 
acknowledged this, Ms P said. She thought that £250 plus £50 in respect of the calls shed 
made was a fair and reasonable amount to be paid in respect of the poor service shed 
received.
Phoenix had demonstrated a disregard for its customers, at a time when it should be 
increasing its levels of customer service, and online reviews corroborated her view on this, 
Ms P added.
Ms P said that shed read several industry reports about how this service wasnt fully reading 
customer complaints and instead siding with large financial services companies. As such, 
she hoped that Id be able to take on board all of the facts that shed provided.Online reviews evidenced that Phoenix wasnt operating in compliance with the regulators 
requirements, but it needed to do so and also treat its customers fairly, Ms P asserted. She 
had made many phone calls, but Phoenix hadnt even refunded her this cost. This 
demonstrated Phoenixs unprofessional disregard for its customers, Ms P argued. 
This service needed to stress that this was unacceptable behaviour to prevent it continuing 
and also ensure that customers were appropriately compensated, she said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted Ms Ps further points, and I think I should begin by apologising for the 
length of time its taken to settle the matter. We do endeavour to resolve complaints as 
quickly as possible, but due to the volumes we receive and the complexity of some of the 
issues we encounter, this sometimes takes longer than wed like.
This particular complaint has taken longer to resolve due to it needing to be referred to an 
ombudsman for decision, but I do nevertheless acknowledge  and apologise for - Ms Ps 
frustration with how long its taken overall. 
Ill then set out this services remit when considering complaints, because several of Ms Ps 
points relate to what she considers to be Phoenixs failure to adhere to its regulatory 
obligations, along with the action which she believes this service should take in that regard.
This service seeks to right financial wrongs  in other words, if a customer has been 
financially disadvantaged, or caused distress and/or inconvenience by the actions of a 
regulated firm such as Phoenix, well tell it to take appropriate steps to remedy that situation. 
But were not here to punish a firm or tell it how to run its business. This is the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And so if Ms P has concerns about the 
way in which Phoenix adheres to its regulatory obligations, this is something which she may 
wish to refer to the FCA.
My role as an ombudsman is to consider the available evidence of the case and decide 
whether the regulated firm  Phoenix  has done something wrong and, if so, tell it to put 
matters right.
And to allay Ms Ps concerns about whether Ive appropriately considered the evidence, I 
can assure her that I have. Having done so, I reached the conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision. And although I realise that Ms P is disappointed that I considered a 
slightly lower payment to be justified here, I remain of the view that this is the right amount.
In particular, I know that Ms P feels that she needed to become directly involved in the 
liaison between Phoenix and Royal London, but I didnt think that the actual amount of time it 
took Phoenix to progress matters was unreasonable. I concluded that the conversation of 23 
July had revealed the nature of the information request, and so Phoenix could have acted on 
this at that point.
But I also noted that the email of 23 July 2020 was uploaded and identified as being 
unreadable due to its encryption on 28 July 2020 and then the call centre team leader 
contacted Royal London the next day to ask it to email him with the request directly. This 
meant that the information request was completed within five working days, and I dont think its clear that Phoenix wouldnt in any event have progressed the matter within an acceptable 
timeframe had Ms P not called on 23 July 2020.
But I thought that the overall level of customer service Ms P had received, and in particular 
the way it dealt with her concerns between August and November 2020, meant that the 
payment of £100 was warranted. 
I did also consider the matter of the telephone calls, and I note Ms P remains unhappy that 
the cost of these hasnt been refunded, but my view on those remains the same as that 
outlined in the provisional decision, and for the same reasons.  
 
And so, overall, my position remains the same as that which I set out in the provisional 
decision. Although I dont think that any errors in the transfer process itself would warrant 
compensation, I think Phoenix could have handled some matters better here, and that it 
should compensate Ms P accordingly.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay Ms P £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited 
should pay Ms P £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman