DRN-3636025
The complaint
Mr B says Darwin Financial Management Ltd (Darwin) did not provide him with the advisory 
service for his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) that he paid for and was entitled to. 
The service began in 2007 and in 2020 he transferred his SIPP to another firm. He says this 
was due to notice from Darwin that it was withdrawing from pension related services, and 
that the new firm he moved his SIPP to reviewed it and advised him of the following:
Funds within it had not been regularly reviewed or rebalanced (which may have 
affected growth in the SIPP).
The SIPP itself was more expensive than an alternative pension product.
Fund charges in the SIPP had not been made clear to him.
There was no evidence of the annual review service that he was entitled to, so fees 
he incurred in this respect had been unduly charged. 
What happened
One of our investigators issued two views on the matter. In his first view, he mainly said:
Mr Bs new adviser highlighted underperformance in three of the SIPPs funds during 
the preceding four years, but Darwin has said this is a snapshot description that does 
not reflect their overall performance. It has referred to evidence of switching and 
rebalancing in the SIPP in the early years of its service, and particularly between 
2010 and 2013. One firms approach should not necessarily be compared with 
anothers. In the present case, Darwins approach was to focus on overall fund 
performance to meet required income and to undertake changes in the SIPP only 
when/where necessary. It has not been established that the SIPPs funds were 
neglected.
Darwin says advice, fund factsheets and illustrations presented to Mr B explained to 
him the relevant fund management charges in the SIPP. Some evidence of 
factsheets from 2007 and 2012 have been shared with this service. It is not clear that 
Mr B would have had a full understanding of the total fund charges but it cannot be 
assumed that they were not explained to him. Darwin has also referred to the online 
access Mr B had to his SIPP portfolio which included information about charges. On 
balance, it has not been established that he was not informed about fund charges.
Darwin explains that the fee structure for the Standard Life SIPP that Mr B had was 
the same for a Standard Life Personal Pension, as there are no drawdown fees or 
capped income drawdown review fees, and that the varying management fees in the 
SIPP were no more expensive than those in other investment products. There is not 
enough evidence of the contrary, so Mr Bs claim about the SIPP being more 
expensive than an alternative is not established.
With regards to annual reviews, Darwin accepts that some were missed. It also says 
in some years Mr B waived them because he was happy with his investments as they 
were at the time  but Mr B disputes this. 
In his first view, the investigator referred to his understanding that Mr B was not being 
charged for annual reviews and that it was unclear how many annual reviews were missed, 
so he considered compensation for inconvenience instead. Upon receipt of further evidence, 
he reviewed the case and his findings  but only with regards to the annual reviews aspect. 
He referred to the following:
Evidence, and Darwins concession, that Mr B was charged (annually) an ongoing 
service fee of 0.5% (of fund(s) value) which included the annual review service.
Evidence that other aspects of the ongoing service included annual statements, 
online portfolio access, access to a secure messaging service and access to an 
advisor.
Evidence of fund(s) values as of July of each year after the service began and up to 
2020 (when the service ended). 
Evidence from Standard Life of when switches happened in the SIPP and evidence 
from Darwin that those switches indicate when annual reviews happened. 
Based on the above, the investigator concluded that annual reviews were missed in 2008, 
2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. He noted that of all the elements in the ongoing service 
around a quarter related to annual reviews, so he concluded that Darwin should compensate 
Mr B by refunding him with 25% of the ongoing service fees he incurred in these years  
because no annual reviews were done in them. Darwin appears to have agreed with this 
outcome, but Mr B did not. He said he should receive a full refund of the relevant fees 
because the annual review was the only meaningful element in the ongoing service he paid 
for. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service does not usually determine matters of investment performance in isolation. 
Performance is rarely guaranteed and there is no evidence that there was such a guarantee 
in the present case. Mr B has referred to the underperformance observations made by the 
new firm he moved his SIPP to, and there is evidence that Darwin does not refute those 
observations. However, it makes the point  with which I agree  that the basis of the 
observations does not cover the full picture on the SIPPs funds. This is a somewhat natural 
and fair conclusion given that out of around 13 years, the new firm commented on only the 
last four years of performance in some of the SIPPs funds.
Furthermore, the issue to establish is whether (or not) Darwin did something wrong (or 
omitted to do something right) that adversely (directly or indirectly) affected the SIPPs funds. 
Overall and on balance, I have not seen evidence that shows this. Mr B and his new adviser 
were/are entitled to their views on how much fund rebalancing and switching could or should 
have been done in the SIPP, but that does not automatically mean that Darwins approach 
was wrong. Its approach  which, in broad terms, was to address matters in the SIPP only 
when and where necessary  is not uncommon in the industry. Depending on the 
circumstances in a case this could be reasonable or unreasonable, but in isolation it does 
not automatically confirm a lack of service.
Evidence of the years in which annual reviews did not take place serves as evidence of 
periods in which Darwin does not appear to have considered whether (or not) rebalancing steps were necessary. I will address, below, the fee refund claim related to this aspect of the 
case. That claim covers the arguments that have been made about neglect of the SIPP in 
the context of not receiving a service that was paid for. However, in terms of determining 
whether (or not) a wrongdoing by Darwin adversely affected the SIPPs funds performance, 
more needs to be shown beyond the years in which it did not conduct annual reviews. 
Management of the SIPPs underlying funds had a much closer relationship with their 
performances than Darwins advisory service to the SIPP (as a whole). It was not 
responsible for fund management. In terms of servicing the SIPP, rebalances and fund 
switches in the years where annual reviews were missed might or might not have helped 
performance, but they would not have been made with performance guarantees and, without 
the benefit of hindsight, I am not persuaded that Mr B has shown that such actions would 
probably have improved performance. Furthermore, there is evidence rebalancing and fund 
switching was conducted by Darwin in the SIPP during other years in its service to the SIPP. 
As set out in the investigators second view, Standard Life confirmed such activities in 2009, 
2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2019 and 2020. I do not consider it can fairly be said that, overall, 
the SIPP was neglected by Darwin. 
I understand Mr Bs complaint about the cost of the SIPP, and the notion that a cheaper 
pension alternative existed. However, I consider it an under-developed argument that lacks 
supporting evidence. He has highlighted that he did not require the self-invest feature of a 
SIPP, so this appears to be the context in which he says a cheaper pension alternative 
should have been considered for him. However, it has not been shown that his SIPP was 
unduly expensive and there is a lack of details on what would have been a suitably cheaper 
alternative. It is important to note that a firms regulated obligation to give suitable advice 
does not extend to giving the most suitable advice or advice that is more suitable than 
another. The issue for me to consider here is not necessarily that a cheaper pension product 
could have been more suitable for Mr B, instead it is about whether (or not) his Standard Life 
SIPP was unsuitably expensive  and, on balance, I have not seen evidence that it was.
The balance of available evidence is that at the outset in 2007 and during the reviews and 
fund switching activities in the years mentioned above, associated fund charges were 
considered by Darwin and were disclosed to Mr B (in the form of advice, illustrations and 
fund factsheets  some evidence of which has been shared with us). On this basis, I agree 
with the investigators finding that Mr Bs claim he was uninformed in this respect has not 
been established.
Darwins failure to conduct annual reviews in the years identified by the investigator appears 
to have been accepted by both sides. The dispute that remains in this aspect is about the 
level of compensation Darwin should pay for this omission in service.
The types of ongoing advice services firms provide can differ in their contents. Annual 
reviews are common within them but they are not automatically the main feature or the only 
meaningful element of the service. Evidence of the precise nature of the service, in each 
case, is important. Unfortunately, in the present case, whilst this service existed and was 
paid for from the outset its terms were not documented until much later. Darwin relies on the 
subsequent written terms of service as evidence of what it says they always were, but Mr B 
has invited us to question the reliability of the written terms and instead he asserts that 
active ongoing servicing of the SIPPs funds [which is relevant to their annual reviews] was 
essentially the ongoing service  and nothing else was provided.
The written terms confirm the same 0.5% fee that applied to Mr Bs SIPP. 12 main service 
components are listed in it, including  annual statements, ongoing access to Darwins 
support team, access to an adviser, portfolio rebalancing, valuations, review meetings and 
financial health checks. These examples amount to over half of the components listed in the written terms and they appear to be what was available to Mr B/his SIPP from the outset. On 
this basis, and on balance, I consider that the written terms are a reliable reflection of what 
the ongoing service included. 
At least three of the components  portfolio rebalancing, valuations and review meetings  
sit within the annual reviews aspect of the service. The financial health check could be a 
potential fourth component of this aspect, but I consider that it a description that probably 
overlaps or duplicates the act of reviewing that would inherently take place in an annual 
review exercise. I do not consider that any other component sits naturally in the annual 
review aspect of the service. In this context  the annual reviews covering three (but no 
more than four) of the 12 ongoing service components  I agree with the investigators 
assessment that around a quarter of the service related to annual reviews. For the same 
reason, I agree with the investigators finding on redress, which I set out below.
Putting things right
As I said above, there is evidence that Darwin did not provide Mr B with the annual reviews 
he paid for and was entitled to in 2008, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018; he paid for an 
ongoing advice service from Darwin  at the annual rate of 0.5% (of fund(s) value)  and that 
service included the annual reviews; the annual reviews accounted for around a quarter of 
the service; on balance, it is fair to conclude that a quarter of the fees he paid was for the 
annual reviews. 
For the above reasons, I do not accept Mr Bs claim for a full refund of the ongoing service 
fees he paid in the above stated years. I conclude that the refund he is entitled to, because 
he did not receive annual reviews in these years, is limited to the total of a quarter of the 
fees he paid in each relevant year.
I order Darwin to calculate the full ongoing service fees Mr B incurred and paid in 2008, 
2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018; to calculate a quarter of the fees for each year; to add 
them into a total; and to pay/refund Mr B with the resulting total as compensation for the 
annual reviews that did not take place in these years. I also order Darwin provide Mr B with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format; and to pay him interest on the 
compensation, at the rate of 8% simple per year, from the date of this decision to the date of 
settlement if it does not pay the compensation to him within 28 days of being informed of his 
acceptance of this decision (should he accept it). This is to compensate him for any undue 
delays from Darwin in settling the refund/compensation.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Bs case, the complaint events began before 1 April 2019 and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2020 (but before 1 April 2022), so the applicable compensation 
limit would be £160,000.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint (about the annual reviews only) and 
I order Darwin Financial Management Ltd to calculate and pay him compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman