DRN-3136466
The complaint
A limited company Ill refer to as G is unhappy with how Allianz Insurance Plc settled a claim 
under a Complete Retailer commercial insurance policy.
Mr G represents the company and so Ill also refer to him throughout.
 
What happened
G has a fixed business premise, which Ill refer to as property A. Part of its business activity 
is mobile in nature and part of Gs assets included a trailer. The trailer contained some 
contents relevant to Gs business trade. The trailer was apparently kept at a different 
address when not in use and Ill refer to this as property B. From the details provided about 
where the trailer was stolen from its neither A or B but a separate address Ill refer to as 
property C.
Unfortunately, the trailer was stolen while parked at property C and Mr G submitted a claim 
for the trailer and its contents through the insurance broker hed used to buy the policy in the 
first place. Allianz paid £5,000 for the trailer but nothing for the contents. It said the sum 
assured limit was £5,000 and while there was additional cover for a specified list of contents, 
this part of the claim was excluded as there was no cover for Damage caused by theft or 
attempted theft not involving entry to or exit from premises by forcible and violent means. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
while she thought some parts of the policy werent clear, the claim wasnt covered because 
there was a specified list of insured items under a Specific All Risks extension.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said, in summary;
- Contents should be interpreted widely rather than restricted to three specified items
- The trailer cant be classed as a vehicle as it has no engine
- The limit on the contents of the trailer is £5,000.
The investigator restated her position that the policy was clear on a specified list of three 
items, evidence received from the insurance broker wasnt clear that the list was supposed 
to be expansive as opposed to restricted and the amount was clearly stated as £2,500.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contractual relationship between Allianz and G is stipulated in the policy documentation 
(schedule and wording). Property A is clearly stated as the business address with property B 
included as a Premises Address. There is no mention of property C. 
Section 1 of the Schedule concerns Trade Contents and specifies insured limits for Gs 
trade contents kept at property A. There is an extension to this section which states that the 
sum insured includes £5,000 in respect of a trailer kept at property B. There is no mention of 
property C.
Strictly speaking the trailer was only covered at properties A and B. The fact that the trailer 
was stolen from property C could have had negative consequences in terms of the whole 
claim, but it appears Allianz paid out for the trailer notwithstanding the location of the theft. 
Im satisfied Allianz fairly paid this part of the claim.
The main issue though is that of the contents for which Mr G is claiming circa £5,000 but 
Allianz has rejected this in its entirety. The only other part of the policy that gives some cover 
is under a Specified All Risks extension, which states;
In Respect of Section 1 -Trade Contents, Item 5 - All Other Contents includes £2,500 in 
respect of a Barbeque Unit, Utensils and portable Gazebo whilst anywhere in the European 
Union. 
The Extension does not cover: 
A. The first £250 and not the amount of any excess specified in the Policy Wording. 
B. Damage caused by theft or attempted theft from unattended vehicle. 
C. Damage whilst being carried on board ship or in aircraft, unless carried as hand luggage. 
D. Damage caused by theft or attempted theft not involving entry to or exit from premises by 
forcible and violent means. For the purpose of this exclusion any office, hotel room or similar 
is deemed to be the premises. 
This clause is applicable to the following premises: 
[Property A] 
I agree with the investigator that theres some confusion as to location given that the first 
part talks about anywhere in the European Union while at the end of the extension its 
restricted to property A. However, the location issue is only part of the interpretation of this 
extension. Im satisfied the extension for Trade Contents includes £2,500 for the three 
specified items that follow. I dont agree with Mr G that the word includes makes this an 
undefined list or that the three items are just examples and so cover extends widely to all 
contents. The position of includes immediately precedes the amount of £2,500 and Im 
satisfied thats referring to a monetary limit. The words in respect of precede three specified 
items and so Im satisfied these are the only items covered under the extension up to a 
monetary limit of £2,500. I dont agree that it can be reasonably read as widely as Mr G 
suggests. 
If any of the three items were stolen, then the exclusions at A  D come into play. Under B 
Mr G asserts the trailer wasnt a vehicle because it didnt have an engine. An engine isnt 
required for something to be a vehicle, although a vehicle with an engine may be considered 
a mechanically propelled vehicle and subject to requirements that other vehicles are not. 
Indeed, the Vehicle Certification Agency, the designated UK Vehicle Type Approval 
authority, classify trailers as a type of vehicle (Category O). Exclusion D bites as well 
because the theft wasnt from premises as the trailer was stored in a fenced yard and this 
isnt in keeping with the type of premises referred to such as office, hotel room or similar. 
These examples share hallmarks of physically enclosed permanent buildings. 
Im satisfied that the policy as set up by G through its broker didnt cover the contents of the 
trailer that was stolen.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman