DRN-2764149
The complaint
Ms G, who is represented by her daughter, Ms C, complains that Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited didnt allocate her overpayments to cover items bought on buy now pay 
later (BNPL) terms.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The terms and conditions of the account which Ms G holds states that if you want to make 
payment to a BNPL plan you must allocate your payment to that specific BNPL plan. It goes 
on to explain how this can be done and I gather Ms G has done this in the past.
If payments are not specifically allocated by the customer then they are set against the 
account balance in accordance with the rules of the account. I am satisfied Shop Direct 
followed these rules.
Ms G in her initial complaint says that she had been overpaying her account for years and 
Shop Direct had used the overpayments to cover her BNPL purchases. However, I have 
seen no evidence of this. 
I have reviewed her statements for about a year and note that she has made quite a few 
purchases, some on BNPL terms and some not. However, the statements set out what 
terms apply and I can see it sets out when sums have to be paid on BNPL items to avoid 
interest being charged. While the account is busy, I believe there is sufficient information 
available to Ms G to allow her to allocate funds as she wishes.
Shop Direct does not offer to allocate funds to BNPL save for it being told to do so and that 
is a commercial decision with which I cannot interfere. It has set out the rules clearly and has 
provided information to allow Ms G to make a choice as to what items are paid for and when. 
In short, I am satisfied that Shop Direct made the terms and conditions sufficiently clear and 
provided adequate information about the terms on which she bought various items and told 
her when money was due on BNPL goods so as to avoid interest. In turn it was up to Ms G 
to manage her account in line with her wishes and to notify Shop Direct accordingly.
Shop Direct has offered a gesture of goodwill and agreed it would allocate excess payments 
to Ms Gs last two unsettled BNPL purchases for April 2020 and June 2020 and refund 
deferred interest of £493.73. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable response. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman