DRN-3875770
The complaint
Mr M has complained about National House-Building Council (NHBC). He feels it hasnt 
treated him fairly after he made a claim on his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr M faced a number of ongoing issues after he bought a new-build property that was 
covered by a ten-year warranty policy through NHBC. During the first two years of cover, he 
reported a number of issues with his new property which was when section 2 of the policy 
applies. Although there was dispute about whether Mr M made the builder or NHBC aware 
of a number of issues in the first two years some of these were subsequently accepted by 
NHBC under section 2.
Under section 2, the builder is responsible for the issues that are reported during the first two 
years. The builder must put right the issues that have been caused by its failure to meet the 
mandatory NHBC technical requirements during construction. However, if theres a dispute 
between the homeowner and the builder about the construction issues reported during the 
first two years, NHBC will offer its resolution service to determine whether there was a failure 
to meet its mandatory technical requirements. If NHBC issues a resolution report requiring 
the builder to act, and the homeowner accepts the report in full, but the builder fails to 
comply, NHBC becomes responsible for those required actions. We arent able to consider 
all complaints made under this section of the warranty as they fall outside our jurisdiction as 
the resolution/conciliation service isnt a regulated activity in itself.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that this Service couldnt look at issues raised under 
section 2 as they were outside of our jurisdiction which Mr M accepted. And she explained 
that Mr Ms other complaint points, which were dealt with by NHBCs final response letter 
(FRL) of 26 March 2021, were out of time as they were brought to this Service more than six 
months after the date of the FRL and so were also outside our jurisdiction. 
So, when Mr M complained to this Service our investigator focussed on the complaint points 
she could consider in relation to Mr Ms further FRL of 24 September 2021, focussing on the 
points raised that were in this Services jurisdiction. And although she accepted NHBC 
couldve handled the claim better and that there was some delay she thought its offer of 
£450 compensation in acknowledgement of this was fair. 
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Although I can understand Mr Ms clear frustration about how the issues at his property have 
been advanced by his builder and NHBC I must highlight again that his complaint points that 
relate to section 2 of the NHBC policy and the points raised in the FRL of March 2021 are 
not being considered here. As our investigator explained, and Mr M accepted, the points 
raised in his March FRL were brought to this Service too late (more than six months after the 
FRL). And the issues that have been raised in relation to section 2 are also out of our 
jurisdiction. 
I know Mr M feels that all his complaint cant be considered here without bringing all the 
elements mentioned above (dealt with in the March 2021 FRL and under section 2) into 
consideration, but I cant look at them under this complaint as hes been made aware. And 
Mr M would have to raise any new issues, not dealt with in the previous FRLs, directly with 
NHBC now before they can be considered by this Service. And I know Mr M has gone on to 
question whether the issues with his balcony should be considered under section 2 of the 
policy, as opposed to being advanced at present under section 3, but he would have to raise 
this with NHBC as a complaint in the first instance and the insurers decision here may well 
fall out of our jurisdiction.
Turning to the issues I can consider here I agree with our investigator that £450 
compensation (in addition to the compensation NHBC has already paid in relation to the 
other complaints of £1,200) seems fair. Ill explain why.
As Mr M highlights, and has accepted, it is difficult to know what happened between NHBC 
and the local council planning department or what was discussed. I know there was 
comment from our investigator here about what may have happened, but I dont feel it is 
necessary to explore this any further as Mr M accepts that it is difficult to know what 
happened here, in a direct discussion between two parties without any independent 
evidence. So, I dont intend to comment any further on this issue. 
I know Mr M feels NHBC should pay more in compensation for the ongoing stress and 
inconvenience all this has caused him. And I know he has faced potential loss of rental 
income. But our awards are traditionally modest, and the policy doesnt extend to covering 
his loss of rent. As such, I think the £450 compensation NHBC has offered is in line with the 
kind of award I would tend to make in circumstances like this, especially when considered 
alongside the additional £1,200 compensation already awarded. And I note NHBC increased 
its offer by £150 when it reviewed Mr Ms complaint again which seems fair.
There has clearly been a delay in the appointment of new contractors due to the questions 
around the poor quality of works carried out by the previous contractor. So, the appointment 
of new contractors appears reasonable although this has impacted on the timeliness here as 
it has taken time to appoint new contractors to ensure lasting and quality repairs are 
undertaken. And I understand NHBC will review whether Mr Ms tenants should be moved 
out while works are ongoing which seems appropriate given Mr Ms concerns about whether 
the work can be undertaken with them in the property. Mr M feels that this hasnt provided 
accountability and that the repairs were unsatisfactory and continued the problem rather 
than fixed it. However, although NHBCs appointed representative couldve dealt with the 
claim and repair better I feel £450 compensation, in addition to the previous award, seems 
fair.   
Given all of this, I agree with our investigator that £450 is a fair amount of compensation in 
this case. I dont think any amount of compensation would cover the stress and inconvenience Mr M has felt here, but I do think NHBCs offer feels fair. And Ill simply leave 
it to Mr M to advance his additional complaint points, that I cant consider here, to NHBC if 
he wishes.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I feel National House-Building Councils 
response to this complaint (paying Mr M an additional £450 compensation) feels fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman