DRN-4294590
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited - trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly rejected his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to a timeshare product he says was funded by a loan from BPF.      
What happened
In or around November 2017, having attended a meeting, Mr M agreed to purchase a 
timeshare product from a supplier who Ill refer to as A. The cost of the product purchased 
was £15,155 which Mr M says was funded under a fixed-sum loan agreement provided by 
BPF.
In or around August 2022, Mr M submitted a claim to BPF under the CCA. He thought A had 
misrepresented various features and benefits of the timeshare product he purchased in 
2017. And under the CCA, BPF were jointly and severally liable for those 
misrepresentations.
Initially, BPF werent able to find any record of Mr Ms loan with them and asked him to 
provide further information to assist them investigating his claim further. So, Mr M provided 
evidence of the loan agreement hed signed. But having considered this, BPF said their 
records indicated that the loan had never been taken up, so hadnt been provided and no 
repayments had been made. 
Unhappy with BPFs response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Having 
considered what Mr M said together with the information available, our investigator didnt 
think this service was able to consider Mr Ms complaint. They didnt think Mr M was an 
eligible complainant under the rules set out is DISP1 2.7 as the loan wasnt taken and Mr M 
wasnt able to provide evidence that it was.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. In particular, he thought that even if it was found that he 
wasnt a customer of BPF, he was at the very least a potential customer. Under the DISP 
rules, he thought this made him an eligible complainant.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further. Having done so, I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2023 giving Mr 
M and BPF the opportunity to comment or provide further evidence and information before I 
issue a final decision.
Having considered all the facts and information, I decided that Mr Ms complaint was one this 
service could consider. In particular, because I thought his complaint met the two-part 
eligibility test set out in DISP 2.7. That being that Mr M was a consumer who was a potential 
customer of BPF.
So, I went on to consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint further. Having done so, I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 August 2023 giving Mr M and BPF the opportunity to comment or 
provide further evidence and information before I issue a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and Guidance (DISP)
Relevant considerations
Its important to recognise that the complaint and the claim are two different things. 
The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs 
treatment of Mr Ms claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and 
information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to determine any legal 
claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides consumers with protection for goods or 
services bought using credit. Mr M says he paid for the timeshare product under a 
restricted use fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. So, if thats proven to be the case, 
it means Mr M is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those 
provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section, together with other parts of the CCA, 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this complaint
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Does Mr M have a valid claim under the CCA?
S75(1) says, If the debtor [here thats Mr M] under a debtor-creditor supplier 
agreement falling under section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed 
by the agreement, any claim against the supplier [here thats A] in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor [here thats BPF], who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12 of the CCA says, A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being  (b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls 
within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements 
[].
Section 11(1) of the CCA says, A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement  (b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a 
person (the supplier) other than the creditor.
Mr M signed a Membership Application Agreement with A which was dated 8 
November 2017. On the same date, Mr M signed a Fixed-sum loan agreement for 
£15,155 with BPF. The loan agreement confirms its to help pay for a Club 
Membership with A with a cash price of £15,155. So, far, this suggests the necessary 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists to allow a valid claim to be made under 
S75. 
However, BPF have told this service that the loan was never taken up. To support 
this, Ive seen a copy of BPFs own records. This provides all the necessary details to 
satisfy me that the record does relate to the loan Mr M refers to. But it also shows a 
status of Proposal/Not Taken Up. 
Our investigator asked Mr M to provide any further evidence available to support his 
assertion the loan was drawn and was used to fund the timeshare product he 
purchased. Mr M has provided copies of documentation from the time which does 
appear to support that hed applied for the loan and that BPF had agreed to provide it 
to him. But importantly, theres no evidence the loan was actually drawn with 
proceeds paid to A. Or that Mr M subsequently repaid a loan with BPF.Mr M says he would have thought the loan was active immediately. In other words 
when he signed the agreements on 8 November 2017. However, Part 6, section 
25(3) of The Timeshare Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs) says, No person may accept any consideration from 
the consumer before the end of the withdrawal period in relation to the [purchase] 
contract. This means A arent able to accept any payment, either from Mr M or BPF 
until that withdrawal period expires. 
Although I havent seen the full purchase agreement, I am familiar with many of the 
documents associated with timeshare products sold and supplied by A. Ordinarily 
they include a 14-day cooling-off (withdrawal) period, during which Mr M would be 
permitted to cancel the agreement for any reason. It appears Mr M was aware of this 
withdrawal period as he refers to it in his complaint referral to this service. On this 
basis, its reasonable to conclude that the loan wouldnt have been drawn before the 
withdrawal period had expired. 
Mr M says, to avoid paying all this interest [], we raised the money by using our 
rainy day fund [] and made payment on 23 November [2017] to pay off the loan. 
Mr M has told our investigator that he made two lump sum payments direct to A to do 
this. On the basis BPF have provided evidence that the loan was never taken up, it 
appears it was this money that was used to complete the purchase  not the loan 
money. It appears A didnt call for the funds from BPF having received payment from 
Mr M direct. And because of that, it appears there wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement as described in Section 12 of the CCA. Therefore, it also 
suggests the necessary arrangement doesnt exist to enable a claim under S75.
Summary
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive carefully considered everything hes said and 
provided. While its clear he applied for a loan from BPF and they, in turn, agreed to 
provide that loan, in the absence of any further evidence to support his assertion that 
the purchase was ultimately funded by BPF, I cant reasonably say that it was. 
Understandably, I think Mr M assumed the loan would still be drawn  despite him 
sending funds to A. However, unless A requested the funds from BPF, its unlikely 
the loan wouldve been set up. And while I think thats what happened here, I cant 
reasonably hold BPF responsible for that. So, while I do realise hell be very 
disappointed, I cant say that BPFs handling of his claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
Because of that, I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF have confirmed they have nothing further to add to my provisional findings. But Mr M 
didnt agree. He made further comments which he believes supports his view that the loan 
with BPF was drawn. And as a consequence, he believes he has a valid claim under the 
CCA.
In particular Mr M said:
I dont know why the points that I considered salient have been dismissed. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments. So, I would assure Mr M that I havent dismissed anything hes said.
our ownership started on 8 November 2017 I agree that the contract was completed and signed on that date. However, under Part 5 of 
the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
TRs), Mr M may withdraw from the purchase contract within 14 days of conclusion of that 
contract. And as I said in my provisional decision, A werent permitted to accept any 
payment during that period. So, I dont think this argument helps Mr Ms case here.
the purchase was funded by the loan agreement [] evidenced by the [BPF] pre-
contract information date 8 November 2017. Mr M later added, If the 14 day period 
[] is relevant then surely this should have been stated in the loan contract 
Although the purchase and loan agreements are related, they are still separate contracts. 
So, I wouldnt expect the loan agreement to refer to any of the specific terms within the 
purchase agreement. However, under section 66A of the CCA, Mr M is afforded a period of 
14 days in which he can withdraw from the loan agreement. Unfortunately, Ive only seen the 
front page of the loan agreement here. However, similar agreements do normally include the 
consumers withdrawal rights within the associated terms and conditions.
While I acknowledge Mr M says he didnt change his mind about the loan, he has said he 
wanted to avoid paying all the interest. And he made payments to A to achieve that. I believe 
the evidence shows the loan was never taken up and drawn. So, I dont agree the purchase 
was funded by the loan agreement. Despite this being Mr Ms original intention.
Because the loan had been approved and I received the timeshare [] I owed the 
money to BPF
As Ive already said in my provisional decision. Theres no evidence the loan was drawn. On 
balance, it appears likely A used the funds sent by Mr M on 23 November 2017 to complete 
the purchase, rather than requesting funds from BPF.
its funny to me that [BPF] only acknowledged the loan when I provided the 
paperwork 
I dont think it unreasonable that BPF werent able to find records for a loan that wasnt 
drawn. It was only when Mr M provided copies of the documentation they were able to 
identify that the loan hadnt been taken up.
Are you able to explain the role of [A] as a representative of BPF?
A acted in the capacity of credit intermediary when they introduced Mr M to BPF. BPF 
wouldnt have known if Mr M had proceeded with the purchase after expiry of the cooling off 
period. So, I think A wouldve had to request funds from them before the loan could be 
drawn. I dont think they did that here as it seems they received funds from Mr M before the 
loan was drawn. So, it seems reasonable A wouldnt then request the loan funds from BPF 
just to repay them again.
Mr M has also provided reasons which suggest that BPFs decision to provide the loan may 
have been irresponsible given his financial circumstances at the time. But because the 
evidence shows that the loan wasnt drawn, even if I was to find that BPFs decision was 
irresponsible  and I make no such finding  given the loan wasnt drawn, I cant see that Mr 
M suffered loss as a consequence. 
Summary
Again, I want to assure Mr M that Ive considered everything hes said and provided. Even if I 
havent specifically commented on or referenced it in the body of my decision. 
On balance, I believe its more likely than not the loan wasnt drawn. I say that because the 
evidence supports that conclusion. And Ive not been provided with anything that shows the 
loan was drawn. Or that the funds Mr M sent to A on 23 November 2017 were used to repay 
a loan from BPF rather than to complete the purchase agreed. And because of that, I dont 
think Mr M is an eligible claimant under the CCA. I appreciate his disappointment, but I wont be asking BPF to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman