DRN-1711911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Bank of Scotland trading as Lloyds ("Lloyds") returned a 
payment from their current account - to a loan account - due to a lack of available funds 
when in the past they've honoured the payment in the same circumstances.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to us as they were unhappy with the response from 
Lloyds. In December 2018 a direct debit for a separate loan  left their account but was 
returned unpaid on 28 January 2019. This ultimately resulted in the defaulting of the loan 
account in February 2019. Mr and Mrs J were unhappy as in the past, in similar 
circumstances when there wasn't enough money in their current account, Lloyds had paid 
this direct debit.
Lloyds didn't uphold this complaint. They said in line with the terms and conditions on the 
account, in order to make sure payments were made, Mr and Mrs J needed to have enough 
cleared funds in their current account. Lloyds told Mr and Mrs J that when a direct debit is 
presented and the account doesn't have enough funds they make a commercial decision 
whether or not to pay. And on this instance Lloyds said as there was a large shortfall 
between the available balance and the payment they decided it wouldn't be appropriate to let 
the payment go through.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She appreciated Mr and Mrs J felt they hadn't 
done anything wrong and didn't want the loan default on their credit file. But she thought Mr 
and Mrs J were aware there were arrears and ought to have been aware of the possible 
consequences, as a default notice on the loan account was issued on 21 December 2018. 
So she couldn't say Lloyds had acted unfairly as they followed the process correctly and an 
unarranged overdraft should never have been relied on to make the payment as it wasn't 
guaranteed that the payment would go through.
Mr and Mrs J told us they were unhappy that Lloyds didn't text them when they returned 
the payment. They said whilst they weren't dissatisfied with the investigator's assessment  
they would like an ombudsman to review the case as they didn't want the record of the 
defaulted loan on their credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've come to the conclusion that this isn't a complaint that I can properly 
uphold. I'll explain why.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion. I'm afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what shes already told Mr 
and Mrs J. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with her analysis and 
conclusions.The information from Lloyds satisfies me that they acted in line with the terms and conditions 
on this account when they returned this payment, so I don't think they've done anything 
wrong. They're entitled to make a commercial decision to refuse the payment here. The 
amount requested by the direct debit was over six times the balance in Mr and Mrs J's 
account. So I don't think this was unreasonable and it follows that I can't uphold this 
complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs J are disappointed that Lloyds didn't text them about the missed payment 
rather than sending a letter as they were away from home at the time. The letter was sent to 
the address in the contact details Lloyds have registered for Mr J and Mrs J. I appreciate 
their point. But it's also Mr and Mrs J's responsibility to manage this account in line with the 
terms and conditions and to ensure any changes to their contact details are communicated 
to Lloyds. And I cant see they did this despite knowing the loan was at risk of default, was 
being paid potentially from an unauthorised overdraft on this current account and being away 
from their contact address for a time. So I dont think their failure to receive notification of the 
problem via letter is something I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for. So overall I 
cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong here and I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman