DRN-2164084
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) told her in a phone call that she 
could transfer balances onto her Tesco credit card with 0% interest for 28 months. This was 
not the case and she was later charged interest on her account. Mrs H also complains that 
the customer service has been poor.
What happened
Mrs H told us that she called Tesco in November 2019 to ask if there was a 0% balance 
transfer available. She was told that there wasnt but to call back in December. When she 
called back in December, Mrs H says she was told that a 0% balance transfer rate was 
available, and she consented on the phone to transfer two credit card balances. Mrs H says 
that she was reassured by the call handler that the two transfers would not take her over her 
credit limit of £6800. The transfers were completed within a couple of days. 
When Mrs H received her next Tesco credit card statement was shocked and upset to find 
that the account was not interest free, and as a result of the balance transfer fees and 
interest being added, her £6800 limit was exceeded, and she had been charged £12 for 
going over the limit.  
Mrs H contacted Tesco on 17 January 2020 by phone. The call handler advised that the 
banks systems should not have let Mrs H go over the credit limit and so agreed to refund 
the interest and late payment fee that was charged for January. The balance was then 
£6771.41, bringing Mrs H within her credit limit.  He then initially told Mrs H that he would 
reinstate the 0% interest for 28 months, but after checking, he said that there was no 0% 
offer available to Mrs H at the date of her transfer.
 
When Mrs H received her January statement, she could see the charges had been refunded, 
but the account was not interest free. In addition, further interest for January had been 
charged, which had again taken her over the credit limit, and another £12 charge had been 
added. 
Mrs H complained again to Tesco.
 
Tesco issued their final response on 30 January 2020 in which they said they were unable to 
provide any further refund of charges as there was no 0% rate available to her at the time of 
the transfer. They also said that their records show that the transfers were made online, not 
by phone. However, they did offer to freeze the interest for 2 months so that Mrs H could try 
and find another provider with an interest free account option.
Tesco have sent us their records from Mrs Hs account. These records do not show any 
record of telephone calls made to Tesco by Mrs H in December 2019. They also show that 
the balance transfer requests were completed by mobile app at 16.03 and 16.07 on 15 
December 2019 and were processed shortly afterwards, with fees of £159.60 and £103.74 
applied respectively.   
Our investigator looked at the information provided by Tesco and Mrs H and decided that 
Tesco didnt do anything wrong. She accepted the evidence from Tesco that there was no 
telephone contact, and that the balance transfers were made online. She thought that 
Tescos offer to freeze the interest for two months and to refund the December interest and 
fees was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Mrs H believes that she was misadvised when she spoke to someone at Tesco regarding 
her balance transfer, and she says that she would not have transferred her balances if there 
was no 0% offer available.   
Mrs H told me that the two cards that she transferred to Tesco were on 0% interest until 1 
December 2019 and 1 January 2020. I am therefore persuaded that Mrs H was looking for 
another 0% interest offer, and that she would not have transferred the balances unless she 
believed that she was getting another 0% offer. Having also listened to the call on 17 
January 2020, Mrs Hs distress is evident, and I think that Mrs H genuinely thought that she 
had opted for a 0% interest offer with Tesco. 
However, I am unable to find evidence which supports why she thought this was the case.
 
Mrs H believes that she received the rate information and made the balance transfers by 
phone on 15 December 2019. Having viewed all of Mrs Hs telephone records for the 
relevant period, I can see no calls to Tesco on or around mid-December 2019.  The bills do 
show calls to other card providers in December 2019 and I wonder if Mrs H has received 
advice about a 0% rate from another provider which she has mistakenly thought to be 
Tesco. 
Tescos have also provided me with their records which show that transfer was made by 
online banking on the mobile app on 15 December 2019, which supports their original 
response. 
As neither Mrs Hs telephone bills, nor Tescos records show any calls to Tesco in mid 
December 2019, I am unable to conclude that the balance transfers were completed by 
phone. 
Although this appears to be the first and only transaction that Mrs H completed on the mobile 
banking app, it nevertheless appears to have been made.
I am therefore unable to say that Tescos have made a mistake here and that Mrs H should 
have been a 0% rate. 
I can see that when Mrs H made her complaint Tesco refunded the first months interest and 
charges and offered her a period of two months grace with no interest for her to find another 
card provider and transfer her balances. Mrs H has advised me that she did not move her 
balances again as she knew that after two months the interest would be reapplied and she 
would be in the same position, and there were no offers available at that time. I am unable to 
say whether there were offers available at the time that Mrs H could have taken, but I can see that with the Tesco interest rate of 18.9%, Mrs H was roughly in the same position as 
she would have been if she had not moved the balances from her previous cards, which 
would have been charging 18.2% and 19.44% by February 2020.  
In view of my reasons above, whilst I can sympathise with Mrs Hs position, I am unable to 
find that Tesco have misled Mrs H about a balance transfer interest rate or applied the 
wrong rate to her balance.  
My final decision
As I have not upheld Mrs Hs complaint, I will not be asking Tesco to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman