DRN-4264066
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems trying to upgrade his Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
account and of customer service issues in branch. He would like an apology.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr S to go into a Barclays branch to 
upgrade his account on 9 March 2023 and not be able to do so. And  to be told there 
were no in branch appointments until April or May 2023. I understand Mr S went into 
an alternative branch where he was able to upgrade his account .So I am pleased 
Barclays were able to sort out what he wanted on the day he wanted
I have listened to the phone call Mr S had with Barclays on 8 March 2023 in relation 
to cancelling an appointment he had to upgrade his account on 10 March 2023 and 
his request for an appointment to do so on 9 March 2023 instead. The adviser told Mr 
S there were no appointments available in the branch on the day he wanted until the 
end of March, but he could pop into the branch as there might be a cancellation. I 
think Barclays made Mr S aware he couldnt guarantee seeing anyone in branch on 9 
March 2023. And  Barclays didnt advise Mr S could walk in and be seen at anytime
Mr S made another phone call which I have also listened to , this one on 9 March 
2023 . Mr S complained about the service he had received in branch and explained 
his specific needs. Barclays went through in detail what Mr Ss needs were and what 
would support him in his dealings with Barclays going forward. I think if Mr S had 
made Barclays aware of his specific needs earlier this may have helped when trying 
to rearrange his appointment. But as Barclays were unaware of his specific needs at 
that time I cant say they were at fault in not making any adjustment for him.
I appreciate Mr S wanted an apology from Barclays. I cant reasonably ask Barclays 
to apologise as I dont feel it did anything wrong. However, I think Barclays did take 
Mr Ss complaint seriously. I understand it has emailed the branch in question about 
Mr Ss branch visit. And  in the second phone call Barclays agreed with Mr S what it 
should record on its system to help him in the future. So, I think once Mr S made 
Barclays aware of his specific needs it acted appropriately and sensitively
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman