DRN-2619114
The complaint
Mr R says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), trading as Portafina LLP, to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
benefits into a Transact Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommend investments 
in unregulated and specialist investments was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr R says he was cold called and invited to a pension review with Portal. He accepted and 
in January 2013 information was gathered from him about his circumstances, objectives and 
matters such as his attitude to risk. The process appears to have been conducted over the 
phone and in correspondence.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 11 January 2013, identifying his objectives, including 
to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
Tax Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
-Ensure that you have a good awareness of investment opportunities available to you.
-Ensure your portfolio reflects your current Risk & Reward profile.
-Have access to a system which will monitor the performance of your investments.
-Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
-Consolidate your investments, as far as reasonable, to facilitate clearer and simpler 
reporting on investment performance. 
Mr R was a deferred member of two OPS  the Premier Foods Pension Scheme and the 
Ryder Pension scheme. Ultimately, he was persuaded to transfer his benefits, which had a 
combined value of around £89,000.
Portal noted its recommendation would allow Mr R to access tax-free cash (TFC) of around 
£22,000. The bulk of Mr Rs residual pot was to be invested in line with its recommendations, 
with 87.5% being placed in four unregulated and specialist funds, and 12.5% in cash. The 
balance was used to pay Portal and Transact fees.
Mr R approached this Service in January 2020. When he spoke to an Investigator he raised 
concerns about the advice hed been given in 2013. For example, he says he was told his 
OPS pensions were frozen and not doing anything. He had no other provision and so 
wanted low risk investments. He said that Portal had continued to give him assurances that 
the investments would pay out. He trusted what it told him.
Portal had sent Mr R its final response to his complaint on 7 October 2019. It argued hed 
brought his complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. An Investigator set out 
why we could look at the case, but Portal disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an 
Ombudsman for review. He concluded that we could look at Mr Rs complaint.
Whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a compliant, they 
must still consider jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set 
out by the Ombudsman in October last year. Theres little point in me rehearsing everything 
again. Portals main argument hinged on two letters it said Mr R had received in 2015 and 
2016 from his SIPP provider which noted problems with his investments. I think the following 
extract from the Ombudsmans decision neatly summarises the position:
Portafina said it wrote to Mr R in 2015 and 2016 and said the investments werent growing 
as expected, and there had been a loss in their value. And Mr R should have known there 
was a problem with the investments and the advice after receiving the letters in 2015 and 
2016. Ive seen copies of these letters and have considered them carefully. 
The investigator has copied several sections of the 2015 letter, which I dont propose to 
repeat as the contents are well known to Portafina and Mr R. But having read the letter I am 
satisfied it would have reassured Mr R that Portafina was optimistic that he would eventually 
get the returns promised. So, Im satisfied that this letter is not enough to mean he ought to 
have known the advice was unsuitable or that he had cause to complain.
Portafina have also raised the letter they sent to Mr R in 2016 as additional evidence, which 
taken together with the 2015 letter, should have made Mr R think he had cause to complain. 
But again, the wording of the letter, although saying there is cause for concern about the 
performance of the investments, makes clear that Mr R should not worry. It says the 
following:
During the past six month period, the market suffered a downturn. It is nothing to worry 
about and is something to expect when investing in any type of fund. Although we would like 
to see investments rise on a constant basis, by nature there will be down periods and as the 
markets have dropped in recent months this will have a knock on effect to your investment. 
Investments should be viewed as long term, 5 years plus, so this is when you will see the 
potential long term gains we would expect.
It also says Portafina . are hopeful that because of the security agreements build into 
these funds your pension grows by the targeted amount by the end of the specified 
investment period.
It goes on to say We believe the funds that currently make up your pension are still the best 
funds for you, based on your circumstances and future plans.
I think this letter would probably have reassured Mr R that his funds were being managed 
and would grow sufficiently by maturity. So, Im satisfied that the two letters, even taken 
together, would not have meant Mr R ought to have realised he may have cause for 
complaint in 2016.
Mr R continued to receive annual reviews, which showed the values of his investments drop, 
until he complained in August 2019. So, I need to consider at what point he reasonably 
ought to have realised he had cause for complaint. Mr R is an inexperienced investor, who 
likely was reliant on Portafina to manage and advise on his investments. I think the earliest 
point it would be considered reasonable to think he had cause for complaint, is when he 
received the third statement in a row which indicated the performance of his investments 
wasnt what had been forecast. And this would have been in 2017. As his complaint in 2019 
was within three years of this date, I think he made his complaint in time.
This Service can consider Mr Rs case.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Rs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr R, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr R to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr R a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr R understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr R on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated 
collective investment scheme).
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued around the time of the advice Portal gave Mr R, it wasnt new 
guidance; it was the regulator re-stating its position.
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are several documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr R that are important to 
my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial Questionnaire (fact 
find) and the Pension Release Report.
At the time of Portals advice Mr R was 56 years old and his intention was said to have been 
to retire when he reached state pension age. He was married with two children in full time 
education. Mr R was a lorry driver earning around £20,000 a year, but it seems his then 
employer didnt provide a pension.
Theres no detailed information about Mr Rs household incomings and outgoings, although 
the indication is there was a small net disposable income each month. He had £1,000 of 
savings and £10,000 in an ISA. He had no other assets. He also had a small loan but 
doesnt appear to have had any other liabilities.
Mr R was a deferred member of two OPS. These had a combined value of around £89,000. 
This was his only pension provision. When asking the question about what pension income 
he would require in retirement, the answer recorded is full state pension at state retirement 
age.
The first two objectives Portal recorded for Mr R in this transaction were to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
Tax Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
In responding to the Investigators view, Portals main contention was that Mr R had gone 
against its recommendation that he shouldnt transfer his pension. It said he had been an 
insistent client. And it disagreed with the Investigators conclusion that it hadnt conducted 
that process properly. I note it had nothing to say about the suitability of the investments he 
ended up with, a matter I will return to later.
Of its position on Mr R being an insistent client, Portal said:
You state in your findings that Mr R was not correctly recorded as an insistent client. I am at 
a loss to understand how you have come to this conclusion. [Mr R] signed the insistent 
declaration form stating that he was going against our recommendation. This was further 
repeated in the Suitability Report, that he would be going ahead on the insistent basis. The 
advice provided was on that insistent basis. [Portal] recommended to leave his pensions 
where they were but if he wanted to go ahead, he would then become an insistent client.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal has said. Where a firm decides to transact with a 
customer on an insistent client basis, it should communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation. 
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. Portal also needed to obtain Mr Rs acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. This acknowledgement shouldve been in Mr Rs own words.
Ive reviewed Portals approach to how it conducted business with Mr R as an insistent 
client. For example, Portal has provided a letter it sent Mr R, presumably shortly after it had 
first spoken to him and had secured information from his OPS providers about the benefits 
hed be giving up if he transferred his pension. It was a short letter in which it recommended 
he did not proceed. It said:
You currently have a pension with Ryder Pension Scheme which has a Transfer Value of 
£30,768, from which you could release a total amount of £7,692 as a tax free lump sum. You 
also have a pension with Premier Foods which has a Transfer Value of £58,043, from which 
you could release a total amount of £14,510 as a tax free lump sum. However, as the Critical 
Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with Ryder Pension Scheme 
and Premier Foods) is 12.83% and 11.25%, it would be against our recommendation to do 
this. Furthermore, you will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £6,236 
per annum which is payable at retirement age 65.
In the same short letter to Mr R, Portal immediately went on to say the following:
If you decide that you still wish to proceed then we can help you with this, but we would 
have to treat you as an insistent client as this would be against our recommendation. We 
would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client form confirming that 
you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to us at Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will 
arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our 
advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with Mr R being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with his OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mr R with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if he took the first option. Mr R completed the 
forms provided by Portal to say he wanted to transfer his pension. Portal then wrote to him 
and provided a suitability report around 11 January 2012.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did and what its said about the insistent client 
process it followed. I have several concerns about it. And like the investigator Ive concluded 
it was flawed. I say this because:
- While its communication with Mr R did set out its recommendation for him not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same short 
letter about how he could still go ahead. Portal shouldve provided a breathing space 
here.
- I note that it would only send Mr R the suitability report after hed decided that he 
wanted to transfer his OPS. This undermines the process  how could he have been 
expected to take a fully informed decision without access to the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mr R signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal that he had no knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure he understood what he was getting 
into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that 
he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or certainly that it provided Mr R, to enable him to make a fully informed 
decision. For example, what were the terms of his OPS? Many similar schemes allow 
early access to benefits, albeit often being actuarily reduced.
In responding to Portals objections to his findings about its dealings with Mr R as an 
insistent client, I thought the Investigator neatly summarised other concerns about his 
knowledge and experience of pensions and investments, which again shouldve put Portal 
on notice that it wouldnt be fair to treat him as an insistent client:
[Mr R was at the time a lorry driver with no previous experience in investments. He did not 
approach Portal Financial, he was cold called and invited to a pension review. I don't believe 
that it was his intention to invest in UCIS when he was invited to the review. He may have 
signed an Insistent Client document but this does not mean he was a suitable client to be 
defined by Portal financial as an insistent client. The insistent client process was a papering 
exercise and didnt reflect what actually happened.
When I asked [Mr R] about his understanding of what an insistent client was, he had no 
understanding of what it was or what it meant and disputed it was his intention to invest prior 
to meeting Portal Financial. This is why its important that the correct procedures are 
followed and documents held. The report only has fleeting mentions of an 'insistent client' 
and does not go into any detail why or what it means.
Given these failings it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude that the process Portal 
followed meant that Mr R can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its communications 
werent clear or fair. It wasnt acting in his best interests. And it failed to act with due care 
and skill.
Portal says Mr R wanted TFC to establish an emergency fund. It said that it had explored 
alternatives available for funding, but he didnt want a loan or to access his bonds (ISA?), 
which were said to be tied-up.
While Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mr Rs OPS wasnt suitable, there were failings in 
the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position and we dont 
know what effect fuller information and better analysis wouldve had on his decision making.
For example, Portal failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. Theres no 
substantive input about options for the creation of an emergency fund and how large this 
should be (its often suggested 3-6 months of household expenditure is a good guide). And 
theres no record of any discussion of why accessing his valuable OPS benefits was a better 
option than turning to the £10,000 he had in bonds.
Portals arguments here are weak. Even if it had been in Mr Rs mind to access his TFC to 
create such a fund, it wouldve been obvious to it that this was a questionable strategy that 
would release funds way beyond what a usual assessment of what would be required for an 
emergency fund. Theres no record it gave Mr R such advice.
Its recorded that Mr R would only require the full state pension in retirement. Ive seen no 
evidence of an attempt by Portal to get to the bottom of this assertion. And Ive seen no 
effective comparison of the benefits available under his OPS and an illustration of what 
couldve been available under the new arrangements. As Ive already mentioned, we also 
dont know what flexibilities were available to Mr R under his OPS.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr R about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access is contemplated there 
needs to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the case here.It was Portals role to discern what Mr Rs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it 
recommended Mr R didnt transfer his benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met these 
obligations.
Turning to the other aspect of what I think was Mr Rs main objective, to provide an income 
in retirement. Leaving aside what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of 
the funds recommended to him, I have various concerns about Portals advice here.
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr R wasnt an investment professional. Nor 
was he a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him.
Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr R. The Pension Release Report had a brief 
section about the outcome of the analysis. It said:
We have evaluated the answers you have given regarding your attitude to risk in respect of 
these funds. The answers you gave indicate that you have a balanced attitude to risk. This 
broadly means: 
-Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They 
may have some experience of investment, including investing in products containing 
risky assets such as equities and bonds. 
-In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in 
order to be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk 
with at least part of their available assets.
-Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a 
gamble provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They 
will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly, but 
do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Ive several concerns about the risk assessment process Portal conducted. Some of these 
relate to the fact it hasnt provided us with a copy of the questionnaire it completed with Mr 
R, which is unusual. Ive not seen any notes of the discussion either. 
Interestingly, the Pension Options Personal Financial Questionnaire, captures a response 
from Mr R about the nature of equities. This indicated he wouldnt be happy to invest in the 
stock market due to volatility. This appears at odds with his supposed balanced attitude to 
risk.
Even if I thought Portals risk assessment for Mr R was about right, and I dont, there remain 
fundamental problems with its approach. For example, its odd and concerning that it ended 
up recommending the investment funds it did. I dont think the portfolio it proposed was an 
appropriate match even for someone with a balanced risk outlook and lots of investment 
experience. And I dont think Mr R was either of these.
Mr R was recommended investments where 87.5% of his money would be placed in four 
unregulated collective investment schemes and specialised funds. One of these funds would 
account for around half of his pension pot, the Hypa Raithwaite Fund was described as 
follows:The Hypa Raithwaite LP Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in 
Whitby, Yorkshire and is designed to yield 8% per annum. Our due diligence research 
evaluates this as a low to medium risk investment which will run over an approximate 7 year 
period and should provide an average compound return of 11% once capital growth and 
income are taken into account. The fund will hold the hotel rooms until the hotel becomes 
established and then look to sell them on at profit as single units or in bulk. This is similar to 
a buy to let investment.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Rs funds were being invested, 
Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced or 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on.
Indeed, all Mr Rs non-cash funds were being placed in similar investment vehicles. As 
Portal noted in the report it prepared for him:
Please note that the Hypa Raithwaite LP, Kudos Asia Investments Ltd, Venture Oil Investments 
Ltd and EOS Solar Investments Ltd funds are Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS).
This approach flew in the face of regulatory obligations on Portal that Ive already set out at 
some length.
Im also concerned that Portal didnt get to grips with Mr Rs capacity for loss. Although he 
had another 10 years or so before his recorded planned retirement date, he was being 
advised to transfer his only pension provision and to invest in a high-risk portfolio. He had no 
other assets or savings to fall back on.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its investment 
recommendations than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Rs best interests 
concerning his valuable pension funds.
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr R. Those charges are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged 5% of the transfer value for the 
initial transaction. And there was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. There were also fees 
for the SIPP provider. And there were management fees associated with each of the funds 
he was investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements with his former pension plans. While it did note the new arrangement would 
be more expensive, I dont think that was sufficiently transparent.
Portal shouldve provided Mr R with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits into a Transact SIPP, the purpose of which was to access 
his TFC and invest in a high-risk portfolio. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its 
advice process; what it knew about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and his lack of 
experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Instead, Portal failed to conduct a satisfactory insistent client process with Mr R. And it 
recommended that his OPS benefits be invested in unregulated and specialist funds way 
beyond his risk appetite. It knew this and the potential consequences. The funds could be 
illiquid, meaning Mr R might have difficulty getting access to his pension funds. The 
investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was 
subject to valuation uncertainty.I cant see that accessing his TFC was a pressing concern for Mr R. If hed had a need to 
access finance, potentially better alternatives werent properly explored by Portal. Nor was 
there a convincing assessment of his retirement income requirements.
I think that if Portal had given Mr R appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits to the Transact SIPP and the high-risk investment portfolio it 
proposed. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Rs personal pension funds into the Transact SIPP 
and the investment in the high-risk portfolio of funds it recommended could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to him. As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements 
placed on it when providing him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Rs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr R 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr R the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Portal doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
I consider Mr R wouldve remained in his OPSs. Portal Financial Services LLP should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
My aim is to return Mr R to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr R to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. For the SIPP to be closed and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this 
is something that Mr R can discuss with Transact directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pays Mr R an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr R. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from 
DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
Distress and inconvenience In addition, I consider that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr R compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £200. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. I require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman