DRN-4453491
The complaint
X and Mr O have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold their home 
insurance policy. For the avoidance of doubt, the term Aviva includes its agents and 
representatives for the purposes of this decision. 
What happened
X and Mr O unfortunately suffered a break-in at their home in April 2023. They reported the 
matter to Aviva with whom they insured their property at the relevant time. X and Mr O said 
that the loss was valued by Aviva at over £10,000 but that the insurance cover for valuables 
was limited to £10,000. X and Mr O said that they werent told about this limit by Aviva when 
they took out the policy. They considered that the policy documents were unclear and 
misleading. They therefore wanted their claim to be met in full.
X and Mr O complained to Aviva however Aviva didnt consider it had treated X and Mr O in 
an unfair or unreasonable manner. In the circumstances, X and Mr O referred their complaint 
to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She didnt consider 
that Aviva had made an error in setting up the policy. She considered that policyholders had 
responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for their needs. She also noted that the 
relevant policy documents showed the limit for valuables to be £10,000, which could 
however be increased to £20,000.
X and Mr O were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. The matter has therefore 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue here is whether Aviva mis-sold the relevant policy. I dont consider that it did, 
and I cant say that Aviva otherwise acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. Ill explain 
my reasons for not upholding X and Mr Os complaint as follows. In reaching this decision 
Ive also considered the submissions of both parties as summarised below.
X and Mr O said that the problem didnt become apparent until after theyd made the 
insurance claim in 2023. In essence, X and Mr O considered that Aviva hadnt paid out an 
adequate sum following their theft claim. They said that the sum offered wouldnt in any way 
cover their losses or to enable them to replace their stolen belongings. In the circumstances, 
they considered that Aviva had mis-sold the insurance policy to them. They considered 
Avivas quotation and sales documents to be inconsistent, misleading, and contradictory.
They said that theyd filled in an on-line form on the relevant website to obtain home and 
contents insurance. Mr O said hed had problems completing and submitting the online form, 
which he thought was due to a flaw in Avivas internal systems, so he sought assistance 
from Avivas representative. He said that some of the pre-filled on-line details were checked 
by Aviva, but not all relevant aspects. X and Mr O thought that this is where the level for 
valuables was missed. They thought that Avivas failure to check and confirm all relevant 
aspects meant that Mr Os attention; was not drawn to the crucial aspects of the insurance 
notably the specific limitations on valuables.
X and Mr O had taken out home insurance for over 25 years, with the majority of these being 
a mixture of over the phone and online. Theyd never previously accepted such a low limit for 
valuables. They said that on each other occasion, the salesperson would thoroughly verify 
and confirm both the building and content of the insurance with me to ensure they were 
adequate and correctly filled out before finally signing it off or clicking the submit button. 
Additionally, the Aviva representative advised that hard copies of the completed insurance 
documents would be sent by post to show details of cover. However, X and Mr O said that 
this didnt happen although theyve received other correspondence from Aviva. They 
considered there to be no evidence that Aviva had a system in place to ensure all mail was 
sent and arrived with customers.
X and Mr O considered that the insurance quote document was different from the actual 
insurance that had been sold to them. They said that the former was taken from the website 
which referred to content insurance of £50,000; and in no way indicated a possible 
graduation, which reinforced my belief that the content coverage was adequate. They said 
there was contradictory information on the website also which referenced £55,000. They felt 
that the upfront presentation of content coverage at this level was made deliberately to 
mislead customers and potential customers. They also felt that there was no clear definition, 
description, or explanation of what might constitute valuables. They would have considered 
£10,000 inadequate if theyd been told at the time of purchase and felt documents such as 
the product information document to be unclear, contradictory, and grossly misleading. 
They thought that the sales representative should have taken time to explain critical parts of 
the policy to customers and not selectively explain.
Finally, X and Mr O said that theyd asked for the insurance details to be emailed, but the 
representative refused, with the advisor saying that it was only going to be posted, only for 
the alleged mail not to be received. They considered it onerous to expect customers to have 
to chase insurers for insurance documents and said this isnt what theyd previously 
experienced of the insurance industry, where insurers would provide details and follow up 
with several emails after sale. They hadnt asked, because they thought the sum of £50,000 
as presented, would cover the needs.
 
I now turn to Avivas response to the complaint. As to the two separate figures referenced by 
X and Mr O, it said that X and Mr O had completed two on-line quotations, two days apart. 
The first was for £55,000 and the second for £50,000. It said that both quotes included 
Avivas standard cover for valuables with a limit of £10,000. This had an option to increase 
this to a maximum of £20,000. In its final response letter, Aviva said, As a consumer it is 
your responsibility to read the policy information on-line and that this includes policy 
limits 
Aviva stated that from the sales call, its representative had asked if Mr O wanted the details 
checked and in response, Mr O asked if Aviva could do a better deal, and the representative 
then checked back with Mr O as to certain property information. A discussion also took place 
about the type of cover in place. Aviva acknowledged that there had been no discussion 
regarding valuables but said that it would not expect to do so on this type of call.
As to X and Mr Os argument that they hadnt received the original policy documents, Aviva 
stated that its records showed that the documents were sent on a specific date at the end of 
October 2022. It said that they were sent via the royal mail postal service, and that there was 
therefore a clear audit trail to show that the policy documents were sent. As to other relevant documents and evidence, Ive considered the detailed Aviva case-notes 
regarding the matter as well as the relevant telephone call record when the policy was set 
up. The notes refer to the fact that X and Mr O had obtained two on-line quotes from Aviva, 
both of which provided cover of £10,000 for valuables. They also record that its policy offer 
was based on the information inputted online by X and Mr O. It said that the system asked if 
the valuable limit was suitable and gave the option to increase this to £20,000. It also asked 
if there was any single item valued at £1,500.
Having considered the above evidence and submissions, I now provide the reasoning for 
this final decision. The starting point is the insurance documentation, and in particular the 
terms and conditions of the policy, which form the basis of the insurance contract between 
the insurer and the customer. Whilst it can be a time-consuming and challenging process for 
consumers, there is an expectation that the consumer will check terms and conditions 
carefully and read through policy documents to assure themselves that the selected cover 
suits their requirements. This is particularly where relevant information is inputted online by 
the customer to produce a quote.
I appreciate that where the quote process has been commenced on-line and then completed 
by telephone, that this may have created an expectation that further support and guidance 
would be provided by Aviva. Mr O felt that the specific limitation on valuables was a crucial 
aspect of the insurance which Aviva should have drawn to his attention. I do have some 
sympathy with X and Mr Os position in this respect, and I agree that best practice would 
have been for Aviva to have re-stated on the telephone all the cover and limits which had 
been recorded within the on-line quote. This would have provided a useful double-checking 
facility. Nevertheless, I remain of the view that the customer has the primary duty to check 
the details and limits when purchasing a policy when its partly on-line and partly over the 
phone. I therefore cant say that Aviva acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner by not 
spelling out what had been inputted by Mr O during the quote process. 
As to X and Mr Os complaint that they hadnt received the hard-copy documents in the post 
in order that they would be crystal clear about the selected cover, I have no reason to doubt 
that Aviva sent out the policy documents in the post. I also have no reason to doubt that X 
and Mr O may not have received the documents and were somehow lost in transit. I also 
appreciate what X and Mr O say, that theyve not previously needed to chase documents 
from insurers. However, I conclude that in relation to the policy, it would be reasonable to 
expect that the customer would follow up such an important document if it wasnt received 
promptly in order to check that the cover meets their needs.
As to the Insurance Product Information Document (PID), X and Mr O said that this played 
a significant role in the decision to take the cover. They considered the PID to be misleading. 
Again, unfortunately for X and Mr O, I consider that it would have been reasonable for them 
to check the on-line information and the policy documents to satisfy themselves as to the 
level of cover in place. A PID is only intended to provide a brief summary of the policy cover. 
If there had been any concern or doubt, then there was an opportunity to ask questions 
about on-line cover limits or the nature of valuables in the telephone call to Aviva. I 
therefore cant say that Aviva acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold X and Mr Os complaint and I dont 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 Claire Jones
Ombudsman