DRN-3698508
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his car insurance policy and 
declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr R claimed on his policy with Aviva for his previous car which had been written off in an 
accident. Aviva accepted the claim and paid out the market value of the car. Mr R then 
replaced the car on the policy with a new one. 
Mr Rs policy then renewed with Aviva. A couple of months later the named driver on Mr Rs 
policy was involved in an accident so Mr R claimed on his policy. Aviva reviewed the claim 
and discovered that the car on Mr Rs policy was registered to the named driver, who is Mr 
R's daughter, Miss R. Aviva said it would never have provided cover if it had known the car 
was registered to the named driver, and so avoided his policy and cancelled the previous 
policy from when the car had been added to it. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair and complained. Aviva reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Aviva thought Mr Rs misrepresentation was deliberate Aviva also kept the 
premium. Mr R didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. He said the previous 
car on the policy had also been in his daughters name, and so as Aviva had paid that claim 
they should also pay this one. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably when saying it wouldnt have provided cover. She 
also found that before the policy had renewed there had been quotes attempted for the 
policy to be in the named drivers name. Because of this she thought Aviva had acted fairly 
by saying the misrepresentation was deliberate. Mr R didnt agree, he said the registered 
keeper and owner are different and didnt think it was fair for Aviva to decline this claim when 
it had accepted the previous one. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
changed the car on his previous policy and when the policy renewed. Aviva said he should 
have let it know the car was registered in Miss Rs name.
Ive seen the question on the online application, and it says: Who will be the registered 
keeper? and Who will be the legal owner? it also has an explanation of what needs to be 
entered next to each of these questions. Im therefore satisfied a clear question was asked. 
The documents provided when Mr Rs policy renewed also have a section titled Your car. 
Within this section it has a field Vehicle owner and one for Registered keeper. Next to all 
of these it says Proposer. The logbook for the car on Mr Rs policy was in Miss Rs name. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr R made a misrepresentation when adding the car to his old policy 
and when taking out this policy, so Ive looked at whether it would have made a difference.
Aviva has shown its underwriting criteria to show that if Mr R had declared the correct
information when he took out his policy, then it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means 
Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Aviva has also said it believe Mr 
Rs misrepresentation was deliberate and kept his premium. Its said this because there are 
quotes attempted for the policy in Mr Rs daughters name, but Aviva wouldnt provide cover, 
so no premium was quoted. 
I agree that its fair and reasonable for Aviva to find that Mr Rs misrepresentation was 
deliberate as Im satisfied, he knew the car was registered to his daughter. I say this 
because hes said it was the same for the previous policy and there are also attempts at 
insuring the car in his daughters name. As Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation can be 
treated as deliberate. Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
The actions available to Aviva are to avoid the policy, decline any claims and keep the 
premium. As this is what Aviva has done, Im not persuaded Aviva has done anything wrong. 
I understand Mr R has said he had a previous claim and the details were the same so Aviva 
should pay this claim. But just because a previous claim has been paid on the previous 
years policy doesnt mean Aviva has acted unfairly by avoiding this policy due to the 
misrepresentation. Im therefore not going to tell Aviva to do anything different. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman