DRN-2514185
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he took on hire purchase from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. Specifically, he says that the satellite 
navigation system didnt work and that there was a persistent oil leak from the engine.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B took a used car under a 48-month hire purchase agreement. The cash
price was just under £12,500 and the recorded mileage 64,000. The car had been first
registered in January 2015. Under the agreement Mr B was to make an advance payment of
£500 followed by monthly payments of just over £300.
Fairly soon after he took delivery of the car, Mr B reported that the sat nav wasnt working,
even with a replacement SD card. This was important for Mr B, as he used the car for work.
He later reported that the engine was leaking oil and that the oil needed to be topped up
frequently.
Repairs were carried out to rectify the oil leak, but Mr B reported that the car was still using
excessive oil. The cause of that was not identified, although engineers suggested an internal
engine leak or the failure of an engine component.
The car was not successfully repaired and Mr B sold it. This left an outstanding balance on
the finance agreement of £660.81.
Mr B referred the matter to this service. He thought he should have been entitled to return
the car when repairs didnt resolve the issues Ive summarised. One of our investigators
considered what had happened and concluded that the car had not been of satisfactory
quality at the time of delivery. She set out in some detail the history of repairs and
inspections, so I dont need to repeat them here. 
The investigator recommended that, to resolve the complaint, BMWFS should:
pay Mr B £660.81, the amount he had to pay to clear the outstanding finance on the 
hire purchase agreement;
pay £405.88, which Mr B had paid for a hire car while his was not available;
refund the advance payment of £500;
refund 10% of the monthly hire payments, to reflect the impaired use of the car; and
pay Mr B £200 in recognition of the distress caused to Mr B and the inconvenience to 
which he had been put.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendations; BMWFS initially indicated it also
accepted them, but then changed its view. I therefore reviewed the case and issued a 
provisional decision. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that I was in agreement with much of what the 
investigator had said. The car was not of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr B; it 
was leaking oil and did not have a functioning sat nav system, as it should have done. Even 
after the oil leak had been repaired, the cars oil consumption was unacceptably high. 
The investigators recommendations had been made with the intention of putting Mr B in the 
position he would have been in had he returned the car. Whilst that was fair in principle, I 
thought that requiring BMWFS to refund 10% of the hire payments and to pay him £200 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put was, in effect, compensating him 
twice for much the same thing  his loss of enjoyment of the car while it was out of use. I 
thought that the payment of £200 was sufficient to compensate Mr B for that part of the 
complaint.
BMWFS indicated that it would accept my provisional findings. Mr B expressed 
disappointment that I had reduced the investigators recommendations in the way I had. He 
also noted that he had spent more on oil for the car than should have been necessary; he 
acknowledged however that he did not have receipts.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. Mr B has lost out financially because the car that BMWFS provided was not of 
satisfactory quality. For example, he paid for a hire car, and its likely that the value of his 
own car was reduced because of the problems with it; that in turn is likely to have been 
reflected in the amount needed to clear the outstanding finance on the hire purchase 
agreement.
I accept as well that Mr B was put to some inconvenience and suffered distress as a result. I 
can make an award to reflect that, and I believe its appropriate to do so here.      
Putting things right
As Ive indicated, BMWFS has said that it accepts my provisional decision. I shall 
nevertheless make a formal award in the same terms, so that Mr B can enforce it, should he 
need to do so.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Bs complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should pay Mr B:
£660.81 in respect of the outstanding finance;
£500 by way of a refund of the deposit;
£405.88 for the cost of a hire car; and
£200 in recognition of the distress Mr B has suffered and the inconvenience to which he 
has been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman