DRN-4191856
The complaint
Miss M and Mr W complain Esure Services Limited treated them unfairly when it didnt auto-
renew their home insurance policy which included home emergency cover. They say this 
resulted in Esure declining a claim for an escape of water because cover was no longer in 
place.
Although Miss M and Mr W are being represented on this complaint, for ease of reading, Ive 
referred to Miss M throughout my decision. Any reference to Miss M also includes her 
representatives comments. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
On 23 November 2023, Esure wrote to Miss M to say her policy was due to auto- 
renew on 21 December 2022. 
Later, having been told by Miss Ms bank the renewal premium payment couldnt be 
completed, Esure wrote to her on 19 December advising Miss M to call Esure by 29 
December 2022 to complete the payment so cover could continue.
Esure wrote to Miss M on 3 January 2023 to say the policy had been cancelled as it 
hadnt heard from her. 
Following an escape of water in mid-January, Miss M tried to make a claim on her 
policy but was told cover wasnt in place and so, Esure declined the claim. 
Unhappy the policy hadnt renewed, Miss M complained to Esure. 
In its final response, Esure said it was satisfied Miss M could have contacted it to 
arrange payment. It said it was ultimately Miss Ms responsibility to ensure she had 
alternative cover in place, and it wouldnt retrospectively cover her claim. 
Miss M disagreed and so brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it.
Miss M disagreed. She said shed made considerable efforts to get in touch with 
Esure to make the payment, and it was clear from her actions that she intended to 
keep the policy in place. 
And so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. Im being asked to decide whether 
it was reasonable for Esure to cancel Miss Ms policy in these circumstances. On the face of 
it, as Esure had not received payment from Miss Ms account, it would be reasonable for 
Esure to cancel the policy. Ultimately, if its not been paid, its under no obligation to provide 
cover and I think it is reasonable to consider this as widely understood by consumers.  
However, here, Miss M complains she didnt have a reasonable opportunity to get in touch 
with Esure to complete the payment and so, I need to consider whether Esure treated her 
fairly. 
So, Ive looked at the email dated 19 December 2022  where Esure told Miss M it hadnt 
been able to collect the payment owing to an issue with her credit card company  to see 
what it advised she needed to do to ensure cover continued. The email says:
If you do require your insurance policy to remain in force you must call our Customer 
Service Department on the above number [] before 29 December 2022 to arrange 
payment of your premium. 
It goes on to say: 
If we do not hear from you by this date then we will assume that you do not require 
renewal of this policy and will cancel your policy from the renewal date.
So, I dont think theres any ambiguity about what Miss M needed to do  which was 
telephone Esure by 29 December 2022 for the payment to be made  and if she didnt, the 
policy would be cancelled.
Miss M has provided evidence of her emailing Esure on 20 December 2022  the day after it 
wrote to her saying there had been a problem with her payment. In her email titled urgent 
call back requested please, Miss M tells Esure shed been on hold for 15 minutes but had 
given up. And that she wanted to know the renewal price and if Esure needed new details. 
So, whilst I dont doubt Miss M made some attempt to contact Esure prior to 29 December 
2022 she got in touch by email  even though it said to telephone  and made one telephone 
call. So, I dont consider these attempts to be sufficient to say Esure should overlook that it 
hadnt received payment at this time. Nor do I agree that Esure has treated her unfairly. 
Miss M has provided evidence which she considers shows she made considerable efforts to 
get in touch with Esure to keep her policy in place. This includes her call history, internet 
search history and further emails she sent to Esure. But I note these post-date 3 January 
2023. So, her attempts were after the policy was cancelled. Because of this, these efforts, 
whether considerable or not, were simply too late and do not change my mind. 
Miss M has said owing to her having thirty-minute lunch breaks it was difficult for her to 
make telephone calls which would last longer than this. Whilst I appreciate Miss Ms point, 
Esures phone lines were open until 8pm on weekdays and 5pm on weekends. Its not 
uncommon that phone lines might be busier at different times of the day, but that isnt reason 
enough to conclude Esure has treated her unfairly. 
Miss M has said her policy was still showing as live on Esures online portal on                            
30 December 2022 and so, she assumed cover was still in place. Shes also said she 
couldnt take a new policy out whilst the policy was live. But Im not persuaded by this 
argument. I say this because ultimately, Miss M knew her policy was going to be cancelled if 
she didnt pay the premium in time and so, I think it would have been prudent to telephone 
Esure to clarify the situation  rather than assume her policy was still in place, particularly in light of the letters and documentation shed received to say it would end. In addition, her 
policy showing as live on the portal wouldnt have precluded her from obtaining a new 
policy with Esure or another insurance provider. 
So overall, Im not persuaded Miss M was prevented from getting in touch with Esure to 
arrange payment of her premium. Whilst Ive seen evidence that Miss M contacted Esure in 
the period between 19 December 2022  3 January 2023, this is very limited, and so, Im not 
satisfied she made efforts to such an extent that it would be reasonable to conclude Esure 
had treated her unfairly by refusing to retrospectively reinstate cover to enable Miss M to 
make a claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman