DRN-2586541
The complaint
Miss P complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt update her address and gave her 
misleading information when she called it.
What happened
Miss P says she spoke to Erudio to change her address. She says she was told during that 
call that her account would not be passed to a third-party debt collector. Miss P says the 
third-party company wrote to her using an old address which has caused family problems as 
the letter was opened and read. She also says that she was mislead during that call about 
the involvement of the third-party company and would like her debt written off.
Erudio says it hasnt sold the debt but accepts it should have told Miss P about the 
involvement of the third-party company. It accepts that Miss P updated the address and has 
apologised for what took place and offered £200 compensation but says it will not write off 
the debt.
Miss P brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought it 
up to Erudio if it involved a third-party company, but it ought to have told Miss P that, and 
that company should have used the correct correspondence address. The investigator 
accepted this had caused a family problem and recommended Erudio pay £300 
compensation.
Miss P doesnt accept that view and neither does Erudio.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that Erudio ought to have told Miss P it was using a third-party 
company to collect its debt and that company ought to have used Miss Ps up to date 
address. I accept Miss P was caused distress and inconvenience in those circumstances 
and that the mistake caused family problems. 
Im satisfied that its up to Erudio to decide if it wishes to use a third-party company to 
manage the debt. And I cant fairly interfere in that commercial decision. I think Erudio has 
fairly explained the reasons why it made that decision and that it still owns the debt.
Im also satisfied that Erudio has fairly apologised for the address mistake. But I dont think 
its compensation offer goes far enough or reflects the problems that it caused. I agree with 
the investigator that the total award should be £300 which I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount. And takes into account that I dont think Miss P suffered any financial loss as a 
result of what took place.
I appreciate how strongly Miss P feels about whats taken place, but I dont think it fair or 
proportionate that the debt be written off.
Putting things right
I intend to order Erudio to pay a total of £300 compensation. Its not clear if Erudio had paid 
any compensation so far, but if it has, then it should deduct any of those payments from the 
£300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Erudio Student Loans 
Limited to pay Miss P a total of £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman