DRN-3958414
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to a 
cryptocurrency investment scam. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr K became aware, via a social media platform, of an individual (who Ill refer 
to as Mr C) offering advice and guidance about crypto trading. Mr C advised that he was 
working for a company Ill refer to as X. Interested in the opportunity, Mr K contacted Mr C 
via a messaging app. Mr C assured Mr K that he could make large, guaranteed returns of up 
to 1,000% with a minimum investment of £200. Mr C then provided Mr K with a crypto wallet 
address to make his deposits.
 
Mr K transferred funds, via a series of debit card payments, from his Lloyds current account 
to his own crypto wallet held with a crypto exchange Ill refer to as B. From there he 
transferred funds to the crypto wallet address Mr C had provided. Mr K was also advised to 
set up an online account with X, where he was able to monitor his investments. 
  
Mr K said having made his deposits he could see his investments making profits, but when 
he tried to make a withdrawal, he was told he needed to pay a fee. Having paid the fee Mr K 
still didnt receive his funds and Mr C stopped responding to him. Mr K says at this point he 
looked online and found reviews of X which suggested it was not regulated as it had 
advertised, and that it was most likely a scam.
 
The transactions relevant to this complaint are as follows:
Date Amount Type
18 July 2022 £50 Debit card
27 July 2022 £200 Debit card
28 July 2022 £17.29 Debit card
28 July 2022 £139.26 Debit card
1 August 2022 £2,564.27 Debit card
1 August 2022 £34.20 Debit card
Total £3,005.02
Having instructed the help of a professional representative (which Ill refer to as P), Mr K 
complained to Lloyds that it had not done enough to protect him from falling victim to an 
authorised push payment scam. P argued Lloyds should reimburse Mr Ks losses under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.  It said Lloyds had failed to provide Mr K 
with any scam warnings before it processed his payment instructions. It said Lloyds should 
have recognised the £2,564.27 payment as being unusual and out of character for Mr Ks 
account, and so should have intervened before processing the payment.
  
Lloyds considered what had happened but explained it would not reimburse Mr K for the 
payments hed made. It explained how it monitored accounts for fraudulently activity, but that 
unfortunately not all fraudulent transactions could be detected.
Mr K was unhappy with Lloyds response and so referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, with the help of P. He complained that Lloyds had not warned him 
before processing the payments that he could be falling victim to a scam. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that as the payments went to a 
legitimate crypto exchange there was no prospect of a successful chargeback claim, so 
there was no opportunity for Lloyds to recover Mr Ks funds. He was also of the view that the 
transactions were not sufficiently unusual or suspicious that Lloyds should have intervened 
before processing the payments  and so there was no opportunity for Lloyds to prevent the 
loss. 
P disagreed and asked for Mr Ks complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. It maintained that the £2,564.27 transaction was unusual and out of character for 
Mr Ks usual account usage. It noted the payment was substantially higher than his usual 
transactions, and so argued it should have triggered Lloyds fraud detection system. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and for largely the same reasons as our Investigator. I 
realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but for the reasons Ill go on to explain I 
dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
Im sorry to hear Mr K was the victim of a sophisticated scam and lost money as a result. I 
can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only 
direct Lloyds to refund Mr Ks losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for 
them. 
It is evident that Mr K authorised the transactions from his Lloyds account. So, although he 
didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr K is presumed liable for his loss in the 
first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a valid payment 
instruction has been received Lloydss obligation is to follow the instructions Mr K provides.
 
P has suggested that Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr Ks losses under the Lending 
Standards Boards CRM Code. This is a voluntary code which requires signatories, such as 
Lloyds, to reimburse customers who are victims of scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. But the CRM code does not apply to debit card transactions, so I have not 
considered it in this case. 
While the CRM Code doesnt apply, there are other relevant obligations that could apply. In 
accordance with the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers, as far as is reasonably 
possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. For example, a bank should intervene and ask 
more questions about a payment if the instruction was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account. Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
So, the starting point for me is to consider whether Mr Ks payment instruction was 
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, taking account of his usual usage.
Ive reviewed Mr Ks account statements from February 2021 to July 2022 when the scam 
occurred. I accept that Mr Ks payment instruction of £2,564.27 was larger than the 
payments he routinely made from the account, but I dont agree that it was wholly out of 
character or indeed suspicious in the context of his overall account usage. 
Mr K had an existing payee relationship with B and had been making payments to it since at 
least May 2021. He had also previously made occasional large payments, including one of 
£3,000 to another payee, prior to making the £2,564.27 transaction. So, while I agree the 
transaction was not completely in keeping with his day-to-day spending, I dont agree that it 
was so unusual or out of character that it should have prompted Lloyds to intervene before 
processing the payment. 
Ive also considered the other account activity around the £2,564.27 payment to see if 
anything else should have alerted Lloyds attention, but I dont think it should have. While 
Mr K made six payments in total to B, this was over the course of two weeks. The payments 
varied in amount and there were numerous other payments made between those being 
made to B. So, I dont think there was any suspicious pattern of payments emerging that 
should have alerted Lloyds attention. So, while with hindsight we know that Mr K was sadly 
falling victim to a scam, I dont think there was enough reason for Lloyds to suspect this at 
the point it processed the payments.  
Overall, I can find no reason why Lloyds ought to have intervened before processing Mr Ks 
payment instruction. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should have 
prevented his loss. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds did enough to recover Mr Ks funds once the scam 
came to light. As the payments were made by debit card, Lloyds could have submitted a 
chargeback claim on his behalf. Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds attempted a chargeback, 
but I think this was reasonable in the circumstances as I dont think there would have been 
any reasonable prospect of the claim succeeding. 
Mr K used his debit card to pay B, a legitimate crypto-exchange platform, to buy crypto 
which was subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not 
think Lloyds would have been under any obligation to pursue a chargeback claim in this 
instance.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr K being the victim of a scam. But it 
would only be fair for me to direct Lloyds to refund his loss if I thought it was responsible  
and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything considered, I cannot fairly and 
reasonably hold Lloyds liable in these circumstances. It follows that I will not be directing it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman