DRN-2158925
The complaint
Mr E complains that he has been charged cash advance fees in error by Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money.
What happened
In April this year, Mr E made several transfers to his partners account from his Virgin Money 
credit card using a third-party payment card. Mr E initially made a transfer for £10 to test 
whether the transaction would incur a fee. When Mr E didnt see an immediate charge for 
the transactions, he proceeded to make further transactions for higher amounts over the 
next few days. However, a 5% cash advance fee was subsequently charged to his account 
for each transfer.
Mr E contacted Virgin Money as soon as he became aware of the charges. They told him the 
charges had been applied correctly so they wouldnt be reversing them.
Mr E complained to Virgin Money and asked them to refund any charges he had incurred as 
a result of these transactions and he asked them to provide clear information on how he 
could identify what transactions would be classified as cash transactions. He also asked for 
compensation for the distress and anxiety the situation had caused him. 
Virgin Money responded and said cash advance fee information had been provided to Mr E 
at both the account opening stage and on his monthly statements. They also explained that 
the charging of a cash advance fee isnt an automated process so it wouldnt have 
immediately shown on Mr Es account. 
Mr E brought his complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into matters. 
She said she thought Virgin Money had provided sufficient information about cash advance 
fees and she didnt think that Virgin should refund all charges and interest associated with 
the transactions or provide compensation.
Mr E didnt agree so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I have reached much the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments 
below on what I think is relevant so if I havent commented on any specific point, its because 
I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
Firstly, I want to recognise the distress this matter has caused Mr E. Ive no doubt Mr E 
didnt expect to be charged a cash advance fee based on the trial transaction for £10 that he 
carried out. So, I can understand why he was surprised to see the charges appear on his 
statement and I can appreciate why he wouldve been frustrated and upset when he saw 
they had been applied. 
However, for me to agree that Virgin Money have done something wrong, Id need to see 
that the charges Virgin Money applied to the account were unreasonable and not in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Or, that the information Virgin Money provided to Mr 
E about these charges was unclear. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mr E transferred a cash sum from his credit card account to his partners account. Although 
he used a third-party payment card to carry out the transaction, I think it is reasonable to 
consider this transaction to be the same as making a cash withdrawal directly from his card. 
As such I think it is fair to expect a cash advance fee to be charged in these circumstances. 
Ive considered Mr Es argument that if he were to make a purchase on this third-party card 
which he then recharged to Virgin Money, he would not have been charged a fee to do this. I 
understand the point Mr E is making but he did not make a purchase in this instance. On the 
contrary he transferred a cash sum to his partners account. So, I cant agree that these 
transactions are the same.
I can understand why Mr E thought the charges wouldnt apply after he made the initial 
transfer but as Virgin Money have explained the fees dont instantly appear on the account. 
Mr E was obviously concerned that a charge might have been applied so I think it is 
reasonable to say that he couldve mitigated his losses by contacting Virgin Money in 
advance to clarify what charges would apply. 
Mr E is frustrated that Virgin Money havent listed every circumstance in which a cash 
advance fee might be charged. I cant see that it would be possible for Virgin Money to 
provide a definitive list of every transaction that would incur a cash advance fee, so Ive 
considered how they define a cash transaction to see if any of the examples they provide are 
relevant here.
Virgin Money say that a cash transaction is A transaction under which you receive a cash or 
cash substitute by using your card or card number, including foreign currency, travellers 
cheques, postal orders, gambling transactions and any electronic transfers of cash which are 
not money transfers. Im satisfied that the transactions in question were an electronic 
transfer of cash as opposed to a purchase and Ive already explained my reasoning for this 
above.
Furthermore, on the third partys website there is a warning that cash advance fees may be 
applied to transactions, and they tell consumers to check their card issuer's terms and 
conditions for whether any fees might apply. So again, I think it is fair to say that Mr E 
shouldve contacted Virgin Money in advance of making the transactions if he wanted 
clarification on whether a charge would apply.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the current pandemic has had on Mr Es circumstances and I 
do sympathise with him. However, Im unable to find that Virgin Money has done anything 
wrong here so it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to refund the charges.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to take any further action in 
relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman