DRN-3769967
The complaint
Mr T complains that Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C & G) have 
declined their claim for treatment provided to their Dachshund dog F.     
     
What happened
In March 2022 F became partially paralysed by Intervertebral Disc Disease (IVDD) and 
needed surgery on his spine. Mr T made a claim under his policy up to the policy limit of 
£4000 for the treatment.  
C & G declined the claim, saying that the policy doesnt cover any condition where a pet has 
been deemed overweight and has a condition associated with being overweight. 
Mr T disagreed with this and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint. He thought that C & G hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim and 
recommended that the claim is reconsidered.   
   
Mr T accepted our investigators view, but C & G didnt and so the case has come to me to 
review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
In deciding this case I have to look at whether C & G have applied the terms and conditions 
of their policy correctly, and whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exclusion and declining the claim. 
I have seen all the correspondence between C & G and Mr T and I have also reviewed the 
medical evidence. 
C & G have declined Mr Ts claim because they say that Fs condition is excluded under the 
following clause in the policy:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this 
results in your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical 
weight for its age, type, breed and sex as recommended by a vet.
C & G said that on reviewing Fs clinical notes, he is recorded in as being Overweight just 
before his surgery with a body condition score (BCS) of 8/9. Following surgery, he was again 
noted as being overweight when they couldnt manually empty his bladder and at the 
beginning of April, Fs weight was recorded as being 10.1kg with a BCS of 8/9. C & G say 
that this weight and BCS indicate that F is twice the recommended weight for a miniature 
Dachshund and he is clinically obese. 
C & G then referred to a 2013 study which they said confirmed that being overweight 
significantly increases the risk of disc extrusion, and so they consider the claim was correctly 
declined. 
Mr T has provided two vet reports to counter C & Gs view. The first is a report by the vet 
that treated Fs IVDD. The report says that  Dachshunds are chondrodystrophic dogs which 
are sadly reported to be predisposed for intervertebral disc herniation due to disc 
degeneration. The exact trigger for disc herniation remains unknown and therefore there is 
no direct known link between obesity and the onset of disc herniation.  We believe that Fs 
condition could have occurred regardless of his body condition, and that the two problems, 
obesity and disc herniation should be considered as separate conditions.
They have also provided a further report from Fs usual vet who says that according to their 
records they had no concerns regarding Fs weight or body condition. He also makes 
reference to a 2015 study which opposes the views expressed in the 2013 study. This later 
study looked at over 2000 Dachshunds and concluded that sex, bodyweight, body condition, 
and conformational variables were not associated with Intervertebral Disc Disease risk. It 
concluded that IVDD is thought to be as a result of a combination chondrodystrophy linked to 
genetic predisposition.  
While I note the views expressed in these studies, I dont think that they are determinative in 
applying this policy exclusion. Thats because these studies look at the possible increased 
risk of a dog developing a condition because of increased weight. They dont directly 
address the causation of symptoms in the dog who is the subject of the claim.
 
The policy exclusion clearly excludes  Any claims resulting from your pet being medically 
overweight. So, the burden of proof is on C & G to show evidence of a direct causal link 
between Fs weight and the claim, because in order to apply the exclusion, the medical 
condition being treated has to be directly caused by Fs excess weight. 
C & G have provided a report from their in-house vet who has reviewed Fs clinical records 
and concludes that in her opinion F being overweight has significantly increased his risk of 
IVDE. 
 
Whilst I accept that F was recorded as overweight according to his vet records, I cant see 
any direct evidence in the records or C & Gs evidence that the IVDD has resulted from F 
being overweight.  
I can see, however, that Fs vet has clearly dismissed any connection, saying that she 
believes that Fs condition could have occurred regardless of the body condition. In the 
absence of any other direct medical evidence, I am persuaded by the opinion expressed 
here, as this is the opinion of a trained vet, who has examined and treated F, including 
performing the surgery. 
Im therefore satisfied that there is no evidence on which to apply this policy exclusion and I 
dont think that C & G have fairly applied that term.
   
Putting things right
I think that to put things right, C & G should reconsider Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy.
 My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding Mr Ts complaint about Casualty and General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited and directing them to put things right as above.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman