DRN-4339490
The complaint
Mrs W complains that due to failings on Lloyds Bank PLCs part, she was unable to access a 
valuation for her stocks and shares ISA online, between late February 2022 and August 
2022, when she encashed her ISA.
Mrs W says her ISA fell significantly in value during the period she was unable to access a 
valuation online. To put matters right she would like Lloyds to compensate her for the fall in 
the value of her ISA.
Mrs W is represented by Mr W in this matter.
What happened
Mr W says that Mrs W had online access to her stocks and shares ISA until sometime after 
she sold part of her ISA holdings in February 2022, when for no logical reason we were 
not allowed access because their IT department started making changes to their systems.
Mr W complained to Lloyds as, for the first time since 2004 our investment lost a huge 
amount in the period during the time we had no access to make changes to the investment.
Lloyds upheld Mrs Ws complaint in part. It paid Mrs W £50 for the trouble and upset she had 
experienced as a result of not being able to access her ISA account online. But it said it 
didnt think it could be held responsible for any fall in the value of Mrs Ws ISA. It noted that if 
Mrs W had wanted an up-to-date valuation, she could have looked up the current fund price 
online or telephoned to request an up-to-date valuation.
Mr W was not satisfied with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. He said 
that he and Mrs W had tried to telephone it on many occasions  but we have better 
things to do than spend hours on the phone waiting for someone to answer and even when 
the computer (not a person) answers you still have to wait for very long periods and still no 
one answers. Furthermore phoning is not an efficient way to run/check investments it takes 
far too long and sometimes you have to make fairly quick decisions.
Mr W also said:
Your IT section removed the facility for checking without notice or offering an alternative 
method of contact. In fact the message that still appears when trying to check the investment 
on the old system An error has occurred. Please hit your refresh button to retry indicated 
that the problem is temporary and the system will be running normally shortly.
Having carefully considered the information available our investigator said he didnt think 
Lloyds had acted incorrectly or treated Mrs W unfairly. He noted that Lloyds terms and 
conditions set out that it reserved the right to terminate access to its free online service and 
website at any time, and to restrict or refuse access to all or any part of this website at 
any time, and without notice or explanation.
He also noted that Lloyds had explained that it was in the process of migrating certain 
policies to newer software. As a result, it said that although Mrs Ws online access had been 
suspended, it would be reinstated in the future. He reiterated that if Mrs W had experienced 
problems accessing Lloyds online services, she could have contacted it by email or used its 
online chat service.
Mr W did not accept our investigators view. He said, in summary that he felt our investigator 
had not considered that:
UK contract law terms and conditions must be fair and reasonable to both parties and from 
your description Lloyds terms seem to be very one sided - in addition they do not apply 
because we were not shown them and have never been sent them.
For the Ombudsman to say that after 19 years of having daily control it is fair and reasonable 
to take away online access is preposterous.
In addition we did try phoning and using online chat but it was a complete waste of time. We 
made dozens of calls and only managed to speak to someone a couple of times THAT IS 
NOT HAVING CONTROL OF YOUR INVESTMENT.
As stated above it was very rare to get an answer to the phone we very often waited more 
than 30 minutes for it to be answered which is totally unreasonable - and then it was a 
computer which could not help, the online chat was the same no one could help. You also 
state that other online options  were available I can categorically say they were not.
Mr W also reiterated his concern that Mrs Ws ISA had fallen in value by over £2,000 during 
the period they were unable to access Mrs Ws ISA valuations online.
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Ws complaint on 7 August 2023. In my provisional 
decision I said I thought that Lloyds should have done more to assist Mrs W. To put matters 
right I said it should pay Mrs W a further £100 for the problems she had experienced, in 
addition to the £50 it had already paid her. I explained my provisional decision as follows.
I said I was mindful that Mr W had raised a number of points in his responses to this service. 
I said I appreciated that Mr W felt this service should provide a detailed response to every 
point. I explained that we are an informal dispute resolution service, and I am not required to 
address every point raised. I instead focussed on what I considered to be the key issues. I 
said I trusted Mr W would not find this a discourtesy.
I noted it was not in dispute that when Mr W emailed Lloyds, on Mrs Ws behalf, in early 
August 2022, it provided an up-to-date valuation for Mrs Ws ISA and confirmed the number 
of units Mrs W held. She was then able to use the current unit price to calculate the current 
value of her ISA. Lloyds had paid Mrs W £50 for the inconvenience she experienced when 
she was unable to view her ISA online.
Having carefully considered this matter, I said I didnt think the £50 Lloyds had paid Mrs W 
was sufficient to compensate her for the worry and inconvenience this matter had caused 
her.
I accepted that Lloyds was, of course, free to update its online offering. And I also accepted 
that this may, from time to time, cause a disruption to the service it is able to offer to its 
customers. However, I said it was still required to ensure that it treated its customers fairly. 
I noted that Mr W had explained that when Mrs W tried to access her ISA account online, 
she received the message An error has occurred. Please hit your refresh button to retry. I 
said I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs W to think that this indicated that the problem is temporary and the system will be running normally shortly. As a result, I noted 
that Mrs W said she had made a number of unsuccessful attempts to access her online 
account.
I also noted that Mr W had explained that when they tried to contact Lloyds by telephone  
we made dozens of calls and only managed to speak to someone a couple of times. Again, I 
said I was not satisfied that the service Mrs W received when she tried to telephone Lloyds 
was satisfactory.
But I said I was mindful that when Mr W emailed Lloyds on Mrs Ws behalf in early August 
2022, it responded promptly with a link to current fund prices and then confirmed the number 
of units held by Mrs W so that she could calculate the current value of her ISA holding. I said 
it was unfortunate that Mrs W, or Mr W did not email Lloyds sooner than they did about the 
problems they were having accessing Mrs Ws online account.
I said I thought that if Mrs W had received a more accurate or helpful error message when 
she tried to access her online account, it was likely that she would have emailed Lloyds 
sooner to request a valuation and confirmation of the number of units she held. I noted that 
she would then have been able to monitor the value of her holding by calculating the value of 
her ISA using the current fund price.
I noted that Mr W said he felt Lloyds should compensate Mrs W for the fall in the value of her 
ISA between February 2022, and the date she encashed her holding in August 2022.
As our investigator had already explained, I said I couldnt reasonably require Lloyds to 
compensate Mrs W for any fall in the value of her ISA.
In reaching this view, I explained that I had taken into account that Mr W had confirmed that 
Mrs W understood that the value of her ISA could fall as well as rise and that she had not 
encashed her ISA when it had fallen in value on previous occasions, despite being aware 
that the value had fallen.
I said I was also mindful that Mrs W didnt give instructions to encash her ISA until 19 August 
2022, despite having received an up-to-date valuation on 4 August 2022.
In view of this I said I could not safely find that Mrs W would have encashed her ISA holding 
sooner than she did, even if she had been able to access her online account.
Lloyds responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and would make arrangements 
to pay the additional £100 redress I had recommended to Mrs W.
Mr W responded on Mrs Ws behalf to say she did not accept my provisional decision. Mr W 
made the following points:
- He said Lloyds had incorrectly claimed they could have looked up the current fund 
price online.
- He reiterated his view that Lloyds was responsible for the fall in value of Mrs Ws ISA, 
because had they not removed access we could have minimised any losses, the 
whole point of having access is to control the investment. And if Lloyds take access 
away they have to be responsible for the investment. 
- he said that  for more than 18 years the value had not fallen more than about £200 
at any one time and always recovered in a week or so.Lloyds are also fully aware 
that when the ISA was taken out we were very averse to risk as this was most of our savings and we did not want to risk losing the capital. THIS IS CLEARLY STATED 
ON THE ORIGINAL PAPERWORK. and this is why they recommended this 
particular investment.
- Mr W also disputed my view  that Mrs W would not have encashed the ISA sooner 
than she did because of her delay in deciding to close the account - which is utter 
nonsense the reason for the delay in making a decision to encash the ISA was the 
awful shock of the loss, and deciding whether to see if it would recover or not - or to 
cash it in.
- Mr W also noted that the error message was still there after more than 18 months. 
He said this service should be investigating this delay and why client access had 
been disrupted while the software updates were being carried out.
- He reiterated his view that the online chat service was not of any use at all.
- Mr W said he felt the suggestion that we could have used e-mail is fine and whilst 
they might have replied the information would be worthless because it would be long 
out of date when we received the reply.
Mr W also said he found it a great discourtesy that I had not responded to all the points he 
had raised in connection with this complaint and said:
If you do not take into account all the information provided you cannot possibly make an 
informed and unbiased decision. At the outset you requested that we supply all relevant 
information and we have. But you have totally ignored it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to change my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
It appears there may be a misunderstanding on Mr Ws part regarding whether I considered 
all the available evidence and arguments when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I set out in my provisional decision, I considered all the 
evidence and arguments provided in reaching my provisional decision. However, as I also 
explained in my provisional decision, Mr W had raised a number of points in his responses to 
this service and he indicated that he felt this service should provide a detailed response to 
every point. I explained that we are an informal dispute resolution service, and I am not 
required to provide a response on every point raised. I instead focussed on what I 
considered to be the key issues. I can confirm that in establishing what I considered to be 
the key issues I have considered all the points Mr W and Lloyds have raised.
Fund price information
It is unclear to me why Mr W has said, in his response to my provisional decision, that it was 
incorrect for Lloyds to have said Mrs W  could have looked up the fund price online. I can 
confirm that this information is available online via the Scottish Widows/Lloyds Banking 
Group Fund Centre, available to the public 
(https://digital.feprecisionplus.com/SWFunds?defaultcategorycode=sw). 
Or, if Mrs or Mr W had used a search engine to search for the current fund price for the fund 
Mrs W was invested in, she would also have been able to find an up-to-date unit price, and historic price information. As the fund is an open-ended investment company (OEIC) it is 
priced daily, so Mrs W would not have needed to monitor the fund price throughout the day.
I appreciate that Mr W says the online chat service was not of any use at all, but it is 
unclear to me why he feels this was the case. Lloyds have confirmed to this service that the 
online chat it offers is staffed by its help desk employees. 
As I remain satisfied that Mrs and Mr W were able to access up-to-date fund price 
information online, I cannot reasonably uphold Mrs Ws complaint that they were unable to 
minimise any losses because they did not have access to current fund price information.
 Access to online account
I note that Mr W says the error message is still there after more than 18 months and he 
feels that this service should be investigating the delay in providing access and looking into 
why client access was disrupted while updates were being carried out.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I am sympathetic to the problems Mrs W experienced 
when she tried to access her online account. However, this service considers complaints on 
their individual merits, we do not have the power to order a business to change its 
processes. Nor do we have the power to take disciplinary action if a business has failed to 
meet regulatory requirements. If Mr W wishes to pursue this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint, he 
may wish to contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator.
Should Lloyds be required to compensate Mrs W for the fall in the value of her fund holding?
I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly that Lloyds should compensate Mrs W for the fall 
in the value of her fund between February 2022 and 19 August 2022, when she instructed 
Lloyds to encash her holding. As I set out above, having carefully considered this matter, I 
am satisfied that Mrs W could have monitored the value of her fund holding using up-to-date 
information available online, if she was struggling to get through to Lloyds by telephone.
I therefore cannot reasonably require Lloyds to compensate Mrs W for the fall in the value of 
her investment.
I appreciate Mr W feels it is utter nonsense for me to say that I cannot safely find that Mrs 
W would have encashed her ISA holding sooner than she did, even if she had been able to 
access her online account as I noted that Mrs W didnt give instructions to encash her ISA 
until 19 August 2022, despite having received an up-to-date valuation on 4 August 2022. 
And I also noted that Mr W had confirmed that Mrs W understood that the value of her ISA 
could fall as well as rise and that she had not encashed her ISA when it had fallen in value 
on previous occasions, despite being aware that the value had fallen
I note that in his most recent response to this service Mr W said that the reason for the 
delay in making a decision to encash the ISA was the awful shock of the loss, and deciding 
whether to see if it would recover or not - or to cash it in. I think Mr Ws comment supports 
my view that I cannot safely find that Mrs W would have sold her holding sooner than she did 
and may well have waited to see if it would recover or not, even if she had been able to 
access up-to-date fund price information online.
I am mindful that in his most recent response to this service Mr W has raised a new issue. 
He has indicated that he has concerns about the suitability of the fund Mrs W held. He said 
that Lloyds are also fully aware that when the ISA was taken out we were very averse to 
risk as this was most of our savings and we did not want to risk losing the capitol. THIS IS 
CLEARLY STATED ON THE ORIGINAL PAPERWORK. and this is why they recommended this particular investment.
If Mr W feels the advice to invest in the fund recommended was unsuitable for Mrs Ws 
attitude to investment risk, he will need to raise this issue with Lloyds in the first instance and 
give it the opportunity to respond to his concerns. If Mrs W is unhappy with Lloyds response 
on this issue she is, of course, free to then refer the matter to this service. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs W was hoping for but having very carefully 
considered all that has been said and provided I cannot reasonably require Lloyds to 
compensate Mrs W for the fall in the value of her fund when she was not able to access her 
online account. As I have explained above, I am satisfied that Mrs W could have obtained 
up-to-date fund price information online if she was unable to reach Lloyds by telephone or by 
using its online chat facility.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the service Mrs W received 
from Lloyds when she was unable to access her online account was below the standard she 
could reasonably have expected. I am satisfied that the £150 compensation, in total, that I 
set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Putting things right
To put matters right Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs W a further £100, in addition to the 
£50 it has already paid her, for the worry and inconvenience its poor service caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put matters right Lloyds Bank PLC 
should pay the redress set out above, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman