DRN-3880111
The complaint
Mrs H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc misled her that she met criteria for a 
buy to let mortgage. On this basis, she applied to NatWest to re-mortgage. Some months 
later she was told she didnt meet its criteria. During this time, she was on her lenders 
standard variable rate (SVR) and interest rates had gone up. Mrs H asks for compensation 
for her costs and time.
What happened
Mrs H applied to NatWest for a buy to let mortgage in October 2021. The security property 
was in joint names. Mrs H says she checked with NatWest that shed be able to apply for a 
mortgage in her sole name before going ahead. 
NatWest issued a mortgage offer in December 2021. Mrs H says she expected the mortgage 
to complete by 1 January 2022. She chased NatWest and says she wasnt told there was a 
problem with the property being in joint names until late February 2022. Mrs H says her 
existing mortgage had moved onto the lenders SVR and the products on offer had higher 
rates than the products available in late 2021. 
NatWest didnt have a recording of Mrs Hs call with the mortgage adviser. It paid £350 
compensation and removed its searches from Mrs Hs credit file. It said it upheld the 
complaint due to the lack of a recording, meaning its investigation was inconclusive. 
Our investigator said theres no guarantee a mortgage application will be successful, and 
NatWest processed the application in accordance with its policies. The investigator said 
NatWest wasnt responsible for Mrs Hs higher interest costs and the compensation it offered 
was fair. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she thought thered be a financial penalty if she withdrew 
during the application process with NatWest. And she wouldnt have been able to get such a 
good rate elsewhere once interest rates had gone up. In the end, she stayed with her lender 
but on a higher product interest rate than she could have secured in late 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs Hs product with her existing lender was due to expire on 31 October 2021. Mrs H 
provided a mortgage illustration from her existing lender with a two-year 2.58% fixed interest 
rate product. This was on a part repayment and part interest only basis. It said the product 
had to be in place before the end of February 2022. And until she made an application and 
accepted the illustration the product could be changed. 
As NatWest offered lower interest rate products, Mrs H applied to NatWest for an interest 
only mortgage. This was a buy to let mortgage and the application was on a non-advised 
basis. 
Mrs H attended an appointment with NatWests mortgage adviser in mid-October 2021, and 
an application was submitted. NatWest says with non-advised mortgages on a fee saving 
basis (with NatWest paying fees direct to the solicitor) ownership issues wouldnt be dealt 
with until the solicitor carries out title searches. Mrs H says she told the adviser the property 
was in joint names. The mortgage adviser says he was told the property was in sole 
ownership. He recorded in the application notes that the property was in sole ownership. 
There isnt a recording of their discussion available.
NatWests solicitors wrote to Mrs H on 25 October 2021. They sent a letter noting the 
security property was in joint names. The solicitor said theyd been instructed by NatWest to 
arrange the transfer of the legal title. It said if she was happy with this, she should complete 
and return the enclosed questionnaire. If not, she should let them know immediately. Mrs H 
says she returned the form, but without completing the part relating to the transfer of the title 
into her sole name. She says the solicitors didnt respond to say this was a problem.
NatWest issued a mortgage offer on 8 December 2021. Mrs H accepted the offer and says 
she expected completion to take place by 1 January 2022.
Mrs H chased NatWest in January 2022. NatWest said it was waiting for the solicitor to 
request funds. She chased NatWest again in February 2022 and it spoke to the solicitors. 
The solicitors wrote to Mrs H on 18 February 2022 asking for contact details for the other 
party on the property title, which it needed for the transfer. The solicitors said theyd sent a 
reminder by text and letter in December 2021: Mrs H says she didnt receive the reminders.
Mrs H sent an email to NatWests solicitors on 21 February 2022 saying she didnt want to 
transfer the property title into her sole name, and NatWest hadnt said this was required.
Mrs H didnt want to transfer the property into her sole name. The joint owner of the property 
couldnt be added to the mortgage due to his age. Mrs H applied for a new product with her 
existing lender at the end of March 2022. Interest rates had increased since late 2021. And 
she was charged interest at her lenders SVR from 1 November 2021 to 31 March 2022. 
Mrs H says this totals about £7,000 of additional interest.
Im sorry that Mrs H wasnt able to go ahead with the re-mortgage, and that her lender had 
increased the interest rates in the meantime. I dont think though, based on the available 
evidence, it would be fair and reasonable to require NatWest to pay compensation for this. 
First, its not sufficiently clear from the evidence that NatWest was made aware at the outset 
that the property was in joint names, or that it gave Mrs H incorrect information. There could 
have been a simple misunderstanding. 
Second, the solicitors wrote to Mrs H in October 2021 about transferring the property into 
sole ownership. This letter ought reasonably to have alerted Mrs H to there being a possible 
problem with the property being in joint names. Its unfortunate Mrs H didnt receive 
reminders from the solicitor, but I cant fairly say NatWest was responsible for this.
Mrs H says the solicitors didnt explain the matter to her, due to Covid restrictions. Mrs H 
could have contacted NatWest directly to ask about the property being in joint names. While 
Mrs H says she thought theyd be a financial penalty if she withdrew during the application 
theres nothing to suggest NatWest suggested this to her.NatWest says its policy is that the mortgage must be in the same names as the owners of 
the property. It says the application shouldnt have gone ahead. As it couldnt review a 
recording of Mrs Hs discussion with the mortgage adviser it arranged to remove its search 
from Mrs Hs credit file and paid £350 compensation. It apologised for the poor service 
Mrs H had experienced at times. I think, in the circumstances, thats fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by National Westminster Bank Plc are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman