DRN-3239602
The complaint
Mr P is represented and his representative complains on his behalf that Standard Life 
Assurance Limited (SL) allowed his pension transfer to proceed in 2014 without warning him 
about the risk factors in doing so.
Mr P also complains that SL undertook this a pension transfer to a London & Colonial (L&C) 
Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) in 2014 when, as a regulated 
business, it should have been aware of the initiative to prevent pension scams. 
Mr Ps representative submitted that the involvement of unregulated introducers and 
unauthorised advisers, an overseas pension scheme, being cold called, Mr P not receiving 
regulated advice, being recommended an unregulated and high investment and Mr P being 
told that he would achieve unrealistic returns, were warning signs. And if SL had contacted 
Mr P to discuss these issues he would not have proceeded with the transfer.
What happened
Mr Ps representative says he was cold called by a business called 
wefindanypensions.com. It offered a free pension review. He gave that business his 
authority to request pension details and these details were obtained in November 2013. He 
was then put in touch with a business called Global Partners Limited (GPL) who were based 
in Gibraltar. He says he was told that his existing arrangements were frozen and not 
generating any returns. 
Mr Ps representative says Mr P was told that if he transferred his pensions elsewhere he 
would obtain better returns. It says Mr P says that he no knowledge of what investments 
would subsequently be chosen, apart from it would be stocks and shares. It says that Mr P 
was not informed of any risk to his pension and was told the recommendations were safe. 
He says he wasnt intending to live abroad but was advised to transfer to a QROPS. It 
confirms that Mr P thought the adviser was trustworthy professional. 
Mr P agreed to the transfer and his pension fund was transferred to the L&C QROPS in June 
2014. The money was then invested in the Trafalgar Multi Asset Fund (TMAF). This has now 
failed and it is likely that Mr P has lost most, if not all, of the money invested. 
SL didnt uphold the complaint. SL say it received all the necessary documents and 
information and this appeared to comply with the requirements for a statutory transfer. It said 
that it carried out an appropriate level of due diligence at the time. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered the complaint. She 
didnt believe it should be upheld. In summary she said:
It was arguable whether SL should have contacted Mr P at the time to discuss the 
transfer further, given the facts SL knew. 
The businesses involved in the transfer (GPL and L&C) were EEA authorised.
SL released pension information to GPL, not wefindanypensions. It also provided this 
information to Mr P and provided hm with a Scorpion leaflet which warned about the 
risk of pension liberation. 
Because he had been given the Scorpion leaflet, Mr P should have been aware 
about the warning sign of being cold-called by businesses offering free pension 
reviews. If he had any concerns about this he could have contacted SL or phoned the 
number on the leaflet. 
SL checked that L&C QROPS was a HMRC registered scheme. 
SL didnt have any particular need to know about the investments Mr P was then to 
make given L&C had oversight of any investments. 
This was not a situation where liberation was occurring and there was no indication 
Mr P was to take cash from his pension. The investments in which he subsequently 
invested may well have been unsuitable for Mr P but is was not SLs responsibility to 
assess whether they were suitable for him. 
Having spoken to Mr P the investigator was persuaded that he believed he was 
receiving professional advice at the time and accepted the assurances he was given. 
She was persuaded that Mr P relied more on this than literature he received.
SL carried out adequate due diligence and enquiries as to the transfer and didnt 
believes this was at odds with industry guidance at the time. 
Mr Ps representative dd not accept the investigators assessment. In summary it said: 
That there were warning signs about the transfer that SL should have highlighted to 
Mr P. If it had done so then Mr P would have been better equipped to make an 
informed decision about the transfer. By not contacting Mr P, SL was in breach of its 
duties to Mr P.
SLA should have contacted Mr P bearing in mind the warning signs and it then could 
have explored any other warnings signs. SL would then have been alerted to any 
other warning signs.
Although pension liberation did not occur, there was an inducement by conflicted 
third parties to invest in a high risk an illiquid investment. Such an arrangement 
should be regarded as a scam and SL failed to discharge its duties by not warning Mr 
P. 
Mr Ps representative asked that, if the investigator was not persuaded to change their view, 
that the complaint should be passed to an ombudsman. Therefore the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SL was operating
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme theright to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like SL are regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the Scorpion campaign, personal pension
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the Scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, 
and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned 
about the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation.
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow.
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as SL.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whetherthe adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives,
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did SL follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I have noted in particular that:
SL received a request from wefindanypensions.com dated 21 November 2013. This 
enclosed an authority from Mr P to request information about his pension. 
wefindanypension.com requested a Discharge Pack including projections and an up 
to date transfer value. 
SL didnt provide the requested information to wefindanypensions but sent it to Mr P 
direct. SLs letter was dated 27 November 2013. The letter said it contained a 
number of documents including a Pension liberation fraud leaflet (the Predators 
stalk your pension leaflet)  from the Pensions Advisory Service. 
Subsequently GPL requested an up to date transfer value from SL. 
Then L&C sent a letter to SL dated 19 May 2014. That requested that a transfer 
payment was made to it in respect of Mr Ps pension. The letter enclosed documents 
for arranging a transfer to a QROPS.  Further correspondence followed between L&C 
and SL to arrange the transfer.  
SL confirmed that the L&C QROPS was registered with HMRC as a QROPS that met 
the relevant criteria. The transfer was then actioned in June 2014. 
SL did send Mr P the Predators stalk your pension insert that was included in the 
action pack. 
This insert SL sent was primarily warning of the danger of unlocking cash from pensions 
early (pension liberation). It warned about receiving loans or cash incentives. It said that 
consumers should watch out for being approached out of the blue, introducers who offer 
cash incentives, companies offering loans and not being informed about the tax 
consequences. It went on to discuss Five steps to avoid, which included finding out about 
the companys background, setting out that any advisers should be registered with the FCA 
and speaking to an adviser not associated with the proposal received. 
It should be noted that there is no evidence here of pension liberation occurring or Mr P 
being provided with loans or cash incentives. The evidence is that Mr P was advised or 
guided to transfer his pensions to a QROPS to put his money in a particular investment. In 
general there is nothing untoward about that and many individuals choose to change 
pension and make different investments. The QROPS might not have been the most suitable 
product for Mr P and the investment itself may well have been flawed, but SLs 
responsibilities did not extend to assessing the suitability of the transfer for Mr P. It was not 
advising him. 
As discussed, Mr P was provided with the Scorpion warning leaflet, so he was or should 
have been aware of its content. The leaflet set out the warning sign of being approached out 
of the blue or cold-called. It also suggested that he find out about the companys (who 
advised him) background and speaking to an unrelated adviser. But Mr P proceeded with his 
transfer despite having that information. 
 
However, as set out above, Mr Ps representative says there are additional reasons why SL 
should have taken further steps to warn Mr P about the transfer. Materially this was because 
of the transfer overseas, being cold called, Mr P not receiving regulated advice, being 
recommended an unregulated and high investment and Mr P being told that he would 
achieve unrealistic returns. A transfer overseas was one of the matters listed in the TPR 
action pack (referred to above) as being a potential warning sign. So it could be argued that 
SL should have then contacted Mr P to warn him about pension liberation and discuss the 
situation with him further. It could have then identified that there were other factors that were 
warning signs.
However, as discussed, Mr P had been provided with the Scorpion insert which warned 
about liberation and that being contacted out of the blue was a warning sign. Mr P 
proceeded with the transfer in any event. Mr P was not accessing cash from his pension and 
so the primary risk discussed in the literature was not present. Mr P was receiving advice 
and/or guidance from an adviser  GPL  an authorised adviser regulated by the Financial 
Services Commission in Gibraltar.  Furthermore the QROPS itself was an established 
scheme from a respected provider. I dont believe there was anything of concern in the 
choice of QROPS provider. 
So, it is probable that any concerns Mr P had were likely allayed in the circumstances. He 
was receiving advice from a, on the face of, it authorised adviser and was not participating in 
the type of scheme or arrangement that the Scorpion literature discussed. Mr P was only 
transferring his pension to invest, something that was not unusual. If SL had contacted Mr P 
it would have been limited in what it discuss  it was not advising him and could only 
realistically set out factual matters he might want to think about. Which could have included 
thinking about the nature of a QROPS and any subsequent investments that were to be made. Given what knew about GPL at the time and the fact it was authorised in the EEA, it 
would not have been appropriate for SL to make any negative comment about its 
involvement  and I do not believe it would have done so. It was not for SL to assess the 
suitability of that transfer or the investment or assess the risk of the investment for Mr P
I have taken into account all the evidence, including what Mr P has told us, I dont believe it 
has been demonstrated as more likely that Mr P would not have transferred had SL 
contacted him (assuming that SL should have done so). Mr P may well have lost out as a 
result of the transfer because of the actions of third parties and that is very unfortunate. But 
in these specific circumstances I dont believe SL has caused that or is responsible for that 
loss. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman