DRN-3271394
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited didnt tell his insurer that his van 
had modifications when he took out a commercial motor insurance policy and that it had 
made errors at the renewal.
 
What happened
Mr Ks insurer cancelled his motor insurance policy due to undisclosed modifications. Mr K 
had taken out the policy through Bollington. He said he had declared all modifications during 
the sale, but Bollington hadnt passed this on to the insurer. He said an agent had told him 
that modifications arent always entered in the system when producing a quotation. Mr K 
thought this explained why his vans modifications hadnt been disclosed to his insurer.
Mr K was also unhappy that Bollington made repeated errors with his policy at its renewal. It 
made several errors when passing information on to the insurer. And then it repeatedly failed 
to correct these. So Mr K didnt know if he was insured correctly.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Bollington had made repeated errors at the renewal. It wasnt able to provide a schedule 
showing that these had been corrected. The policy year had ended so she couldnt ask 
Bollington to now put this right. But she thought it should pay Mr K £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this had caused. Bollington agreed to do this.
The Investigator saw that Mr K had first taken out his policy through an online comparison 
site. He wasnt then asked to disclose modifications and the site said its assumption was that 
there were none. But, if there were modifications, Mr K was asked to check and amend this 
on the insurers website or to call for a revised quote. Bollington said Mr K hadnt called 
during the sale. Mr Ks insurance documents said there were no modifications, but he didnt 
correct this. So she thought Bollington hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr K replied that he always declared modifications. He said the comparison site hed used to 
obtain his quote was specifically for modified vans. But the sites assumption was that the 
van was unmodified. He thought this was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K feels frustrated that his policy was cancelled due to 
nondisclosure of modifications to his van. Ive seen the evidence that hes provided to show 
that he always declared modifications. 
The policy was cancelled by Mr Ks insurer. But I cant consider that here as its a separate 
business to Bollington. What I can consider is whether Bollington acted incorrectly in passing 
Mr Ks information to his insurer.
Bollington has accepted the Investigators view that it made repeated errors at the renewal of 
the policy. And it agreed to pay Mr K £300 compensation for this. I cant see that Mr K has 
rejected this. And I think this compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr K as its in keeping with our published guidance. So I wont consider this 
further here. 
Ive concentrated on what happened when Mr K first applied for his policy. Mr K said he 
looked for a policy on a comparison site specifically for modified vans. Ive looked at the 
screenshots hes provided, and I can see that its made clear in the assumptions section that 
the van doesnt have any modifications. 
This may seem contradictory and I can understand why Mr K feels this is misleading. But not 
all insurers accept all modifications. And the site then asks the consumer to amend this 
information on the insurers website or to call for a revised quote before buying a policy. But I 
cant see that Mr K did this and so the modifications werent declared. And so Mr K agreed 
with the assumptions, including that his van was unmodified, when he took out his policy. 
The sale was non-advised, and I think it was reasonable for Bollington to rely on the 
information about the van that Mr K had provided. The information that Bollington had was 
that the van was unmodified, and it set up a policy on this basis. This was stated on the 
policy documents sent to Mr K when he bought his policy. He was asked to read these and 
check that the information was correct. I think this is a reasonable request. But Mr K didnt 
make any amendments to these when he first took out his cover. 
So I think Bollington acted on the information Mr K had provided. Bollington wasnt to know 
that Mr Ks van was modified. So Im satisfied that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
setting up his policy for a van without modifications. It was Mr Ks responsibility to check that 
his cover was correct. But he didnt do this. And so I cant say that Bollington needs to do 
anything further.
Putting things right
I require Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited to pay Mr K £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its administration of his policy, as its already agreed 
to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman