DRN-2012124
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that CIS General Insurance Limited has turned down an accidental
damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr and Mrs Gs septic tank was damaged by a storm. They made a claim for
the damage, which was settled.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs Gs representative got in touch with CIS to make a further
claim for flood damage to the tank. The representative felt the damage was linked to the
previous storm. It said the damage was down to external hydraulic pressure following storm.
CIS appointed a specialist contractor to investigate the cause of the damage. The contractor
didnt find any evidence of accidental damage to the tank. They said theyd found no
evidence of storm damage, or been provided with any evidence to show storm had caused
the damage. The contractor concluded there was water ingress through the seams and
seals in the drainage system. But it said this wouldnt be accidental damage  it would be
down to the original installation of the seams and seals or erosion/wear and tear of them.
Based on the contractors report, CIS turned down the claim. It said there wasnt any
evidence to show the damage had been caused by something the policy covered.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed and asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. The
manufacturer of Mr and Mrs Gs septic tank had carried out an inspection of it in January
2020. Their report found that a storm had raised the water table until the excess pressure
broke the seal initially and this had corroded with more water and time. The investigator felt
the manufacturers report was likely to be very reliable, given their expertise with the type of
tank. So he placed significant weight on it.
The investigator couldnt say whether the damage was linked to the original storm or not,
given how long it can take for a rise in the water table to happen. But he didnt think CIS had
provided enough evidence that the damage was linked to wear and tear, or faulty
workmanship. And he felt the breaking of the seal had been sudden and should therefore be
classed as accidental damage in line with the policy definition. Overall, he thought that CIS
should reconsider Mr and Mrs Gs claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
CIS disagreed with the investigator. It didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs representative had
provided evidence to show something insured by the policy had taken place. It didnt think
the manufacturers report was specific or detailed and relied on opinion, rather than fact. CIS
also stated that damage due to a rise in the water table is specifically excluded by the policy
terms. It said its own specialist contractor had agreed the seals were gone, but thought this
damage was historic. And it stated that the representative had told us other parties were
jointly responsible for the tank, so CIS had asked for reports from their insurers, as it could
then assess these against its own reports. But the representative hadnt provided this
information. CIS asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. I said:
Both parties have provided lots of detailed information about this complaint. Im aware Ive
summarised the background and I havent set out everything in the detail that perhaps the
parties wouldve liked. Id like to reassure them that Ive considered everything theyve sent
us very carefully. If I havent mentioned a particular point, its because Ive focused on the
issues I think are the most important.
Its also important I point out that Im not a drainage specialist. My role isnt to try to establish
the most likely cause of the damage to the septic tank. Its to weigh up the expert evidence
both parties have sent me to decide whether I think it was fair and reasonable for CIS to turn
down Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
Both CIS and Mr and Mrs Gs representative have provided expert reports to support their
position. On the one hand, CISs expert found the damage was down to wear and tear/faulty
workmanship. On the other hand, the manufacturer found the damage was likely down to a
rise in the water table around the septic tank, which had led to external pressure causing the
seal to break. Ive considered both reports closely.
The manufacturers report gives the following diagnosis: Found water ingress at the level of
the extension neck which the customer explained began around 2 years ago after a heavy
storm and has gradually got worse. I believe the storm may have raised the water table
around the unit and the excess pressure broke the seal initially and this has further corroded
with more water and time.
CIS specialists report found that: There is no sign of any accidental damage to the
drainage at the property or the treatment plant itself. We also have not been provided or
have found any evidence of damage being caused by a storm or any structural defects to the
plant. We can see that there is evidence of water ingress through the seams and seals in the
drainage howeverthis would only be related to the original installation or the erosion/wear
and tear of the seals/seams themselves.
CIS also went on to suggest, following a discussion with the manufacturer prior to its
inspection, that extension pieces had been fitted to the tank which hadnt been sufficiently
sealed. After reviewing the manufacturers report, CIS said there was no evidence of a rise
in the water table and that seals cant simply break, as theyre designed to withstand that
sort of pressure.
Both experts had the opportunity to inspect Mr and Mrs Gs septic tank and Ive thought
carefully about which piece of evidence I find most persuasive. On balance though, like the
investigator, I find the manufacturers report more persuasive. While I accept the report isnt
particularly detailed, I do think the manufacturers engineer is likely to have a great deal of
expertise in dealing with septic tanks such as these and in diagnosing issues with them. So I
find his opinion on the cause of damage  storm  persuasive.
But although I accept the seal may have broken following storm rains causing the water
table to rise and therefore raise external water pressure, I dont think the claim is covered by
the policy terms. I say this because the storm section of the policy sets out an exclusion to
this cover. It says:
What is not coveredLoss or damage caused by a gradual rise in the water table.
Ive also thought about whether accidental damage cover should apply. But I dont think
theres enough evidence to show me the cause of the seal breaking was sudden. It does
appear that the water pressure built up gradually, over time and that this was what caused
the seal to break. Gradual causes of damage arent covered by the policy.
Even if I treated CIS evidence as the most persuasive piece of evidence, I still wouldnt think
the claim was covered. Thats because CIS contractors put the cause of the damage down
to faulty workmanship and wear and tear over time. And I think both experts do include some
common ground in their findings. Both agree the seals were damaged and both agree that
they were corroded over time. Taking both of these pieces of evidence together, it does
seem as if wear and tear played a significant part in the damage occurring.
Overall, I dont currently think theres enough evidence to show, on balance, that the
damage was down to something covered by the policy. So I currently think it was fair for CIS
to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
Its open now to Mr and Mrs Gs representative to send me the cause of damage reports
from the other interested parties to consider before I go ahead and reconsider my findings.
CIS had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with my provisional decision. They were shocked 
by the change in the outcome I proposed.  They said the exclusion clause for rises in the 
water table was new evidence Id raised at the final stage. In this case, a storm caused the 
water table to rise suddenly  which was a one-off event and therefore should be covered by 
the storm cover. The original claim in 2017 was settled  so it isnt fair for CIS not to cover 
this one. They feel its against the regulators principles and is based on the cost of the 
claim. They said theres no evidence of a rise in the water table over time. And they said 
corrosion only occurs in the presence of metal and water  but theres no metal in the tank. 
So the seal breaking couldve only been down to a sudden external force.
The representative also included their own claims notes. These showed that the interested 
parties who were jointly responsible for the tank had also had their claims turned down. Both 
insurers had recorded the damage as happening gradually over time. One of the insurers felt 
the damage was down to faulty installation of the tank and said there was no evidence of an 
accidental event. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs Gs representative that Ive listened to his call with our 
investigator in response to my provisional decision. I appreciate they feel Ive raised the rise 
in the water table exclusion clause at a late stage. Thats largely because before we were 
provided with a copy of the manufacturers report which put the cause of the damage down 
to a rise in the water table following a storm, the focus of our investigation was whether the 
damage was down to faulty installation of the tank and/or wear and tear of the seal. So this 
exclusion clause wasnt relevant at that point. But CIS raised this exclusion clause in response to our investigators assessment, which 
means I needed to consider whether it applied to Mr and Mrs Gs claim. And as I thought it 
did, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the chance to comment on my view of 
the complaint and provide any additional evidence.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative doesnt feel theres any evidence of a gradual rise in the 
water table. But as I explained, I found the manufacturers report the representative sent to 
us persuasive. The manufacturer put the damage down to a rise in the water table following 
a storm. He didnt suggest this rise was sudden or a one-off rise.
The manufacturer also found while the excess pressure may have broken the seal initially, 
this had further corroded with more water and time.
Based on the manufacturers report, it seems to me that the cause of damage was most 
likely down to a rise in the water table. A rise in the ground water level is specifically 
excluded by the terms of the policy. It seems I slightly misquoted the policy terms in referring 
to a rise in the water table, rather than a rise in the ground-water level. But I dont think this 
makes any material difference, because they broadly have the same effect.
Even if I didnt place more weight on the manufacturers report, it would remain the case that 
CIS expert didnt put the cause of damage down to storm or accidental damage either. They 
found the damage was down to wear and tear of the seals/faulty installation. Both of these 
causes are also specifically excluded by the policy terms.
I appreciate the representative states that the seals cant corrode because of the material 
theyre made from. I note though that CIS expert found that the seals had eroded over time. 
And the manufacturer Mr and Mrs G appointed to inspect the tank specifically referred to 
corrosion. Given both experts inspected the tank and reached broadly similar conclusions on 
this point, I think its most likely that there was at least erosion of the seals which let water 
ingress in over time.
Its common ground that CIS accepted the storm claim in 2017 and settled it. But I dont think 
this means that CIS needs to accept this claim, when it doesnt agree its covered by the 
policy. Im satisfied, from all Ive seen, that CIS thoroughly investigated the cause of damage 
and I havent seen anything to make me think it didnt act in line with its regulatory 
obligations.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Gs position, I think it was fair for CIS to turn 
down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman