DRN-3408952
The complaint
Mr C and Miss P complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid their
travel insurance claim.
Any reference to ERGO also includes its agents. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr C and Miss P booked a trip abroad, departing in mid-August 2020.
They paid for their flights and accommodation separately. In February 2020 they bought an
annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, which was insured by ERGO.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In early July 2020, some travel restrictions were
lifted, including to the country Mr C and Miss P were due to travel however, by the end of
July 2020, restrictions to their holiday destination were reinstated and remained in place until
after the intended date of travel. Mr C and Miss P cancelled their trip but were unable to
obtain any refunds from the providers. So they submitted a claim.
ERGO declined the claim. It said it couldnt consider the claim as there was no cover under
the policy for cancellation due to changes in the FCDO advice. ERGO also said that
cancellation due to government action, FCDO advice against travel or fear of being infected
with coronavirus wasnt covered by the policy either. Unhappy with this response, Mr C and
Miss P complained to ERGO and then brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that ERGO had acted unreasonably
by declining the claim. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C and Miss P disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be
reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
On 10 March 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr C and Miss P. Rather it reflects the informal
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover
every single eventuality.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr C and Miss P held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover
provided. On page 22 of the policy, under the heading Section 5 - Cancellation, the policy
says that ERGO will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled due to one of the following
reasons:
1. Your accidental Bodily Injury or Illness or death (or that of a Relative, a Close 
Business Associate or a friend with whom You have arranged to travel or stay).
2. You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, having being 
subject to compulsory quarantine or being summoned for non-foreseeable 
compulsory military and/ or jury service or as a witness in a court of law (except in a 
professional capacity as an expert witness) during the period of the trip.
3. Your pregnancy, where confirmation of Your pregnancy by a hospital or registered 
medical practitioner is announced to You after You have bought the Policy and 
booked the trip provided You cancel Your trip within seven days.
4. Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current Redundancy 
Payment Legislation) and that of any person with whom You intend to travel provided 
that such notice of redundancy is advised to Us within 14 days of its announcement.
5. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your 
presence being required by the police following burglary at Your private dwelling 
occurring at any time have accepted this insurance.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
The reason for Mr C and Miss P cancelling their trip does not fall within any of the covered
reasons listed above. So, this means their claim isnt covered under the policy terms and
conditions.
Having looked at the remainder of the policy, it doesnt appear that Mr C and Miss P held
any cover which would pay a claim for the circumstances they found themselves in.
On page 14, the policy terms say, under the heading General policy exclusions:
This policy does not cover
Active Participation
The definition of Active Participation is shown as:
B. the act of any person voluntarily entering an area known at the time to be subject
to War and Civil Unrest or against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office. See www.fco.gov.uk.
In addition to the policy terms, ERGO provided Mr C and Miss P with an Insurance Product
Information Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.
On page two of the IPID it includes a section titled Where am I covered? and within this
section it states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
Mr C and Miss P have said that they dont think it is fair that the policy in effect didnt coverthem for cancellation due to FCDO advice, nor did it cover them if they did travel. There are
some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently
signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for
travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept
a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here
and Ill explain why.
This is because Mr C and Miss Ps policy also says, at page 22 under the exclusions to the
cancellation section:
What is not covered
9. Any costs of expenses arising from a Catastrophe.
The term catastrophe is defined under the policy as avalanche, landslide, explosion,
earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane, lightning, medical epidemic, storm, tempest, tsunami or
volcanic activity. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic
on 11 March 2020. And an internationally accepted definition of a pandemic is an epidemic
occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international boundaries and usually
affecting a large number of people.
Mr C and Miss P cancelled their trip due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel
as a result of the Covid-19 global pandemic.
What this does mean is that not only is the reason for cancelling not listed as one of the
insured events under the policy, I think the exclusion relating to catastrophes would also
apply when considering the circumstances of the claim.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr C and Miss Ps claim is covered under the
policy terms and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for
me to ask ERGO to accept their claim.
Mr C and Miss P have said that, when they called to make their claim, they were told they
would be covered if they cancelled - so they think the claim should be honoured. I havent
been provided with the recording of the conversation and so I cannot say with any certainty 
what was discussed. But, having thought about this carefully, even if they were incorrectly
advised about the likely success of the claim, I dont think it makes a difference to my
outcome in any event.
I say this because Mr C and Miss P have told us that they were both key workers and so
wouldnt have been able to travel and complete the compulsory quarantine upon the return
to the UK. And theyve also said they considered the health implications of Covid-19 too
risky  and that this along with the government advice meant they wouldnt have travelled
anyway. So, taking this into consideration, I dont think that Mr C and Miss P would have
chosen to travel even if they had been advised that their claim wouldnt have been covered
during this call. On this basis, I dont require ERGO to do anything further regarding this
matter.
Neither party has provided any further comments following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or information for me to consider, I see no reason to alter the outcome reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman