DRN-2334941
The complaint
Ms D complains that Premium Choice Ltd mis-sold her a motor insurance policy with an 
excessive policy excess. 
What happened
Ms D bought her policy online through a comparison site. When she had an accident and 
made a claim, she found that the policy had a £3,000 policy excess. She said she hadnt 
been made aware of this at the time of purchase. She thought the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
excess had been brought to Ms Ds attention on the quote from the comparison website, in 
the Statement of Facts which Ms D agreed to, and on the policy schedule. He thought Ms D 
hadnt been misled. 
Ms D replied that a policy with a £3,000 policy excess shouldnt be sold to someone with a 
clean driving licence and no accidents. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms D has raised other concerns about the cancellation of her policy and the 
handling of her claim. But I cant consider these matters here and I can see that Ms D has 
made separate complaints about them. I can only consider here the complaint Ms D has 
made that her broker, Premium Choice, mis-sold her a policy. 
I can understand that it must have come as a shock for Ms D when she found that her policy 
excess was so high. She said her previous policies had excesses of around £250. I can also 
see that she didnt check her policy documents at the time of purchase due to family 
circumstances. But I cant reasonably hold Premium Choice responsible for this. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted fairly and reasonably.
Ms D looked for a suitable policy through an online comparison site. So I think she was 
responsible for ensuring that she provided accurate and correct information at the time and 
for checking that the policy she bought met her needs. Ms D was provided with eight quotes, 
all with a £3,000 excess. Ms D then selected a quote and was put through to the brokers 
site, which also showed a £3,000 excess.
Ms D made her purchase and was sent a Welcome Pack. This included a Statement of 
Facts in which Ms D was asked to agree, amongst other things, that she was aware of the 
policy excess. I think the policy excess is set out clearly on page 1. And then this was also 
set out in her Policy Schedule sent when Ms D had agreed to go ahead. Ms D could have 
cancelled her policy within the 14 day cooling off period, but she didnt do so. 
So I think Premium Choice made it very clear to Ms D before and after she bought her policy 
that it included a £3,000 policy excess. Ms D thought this policy shouldnt be sold to 
someone with a clean licence and no accident history. But I think it was for Ms D to decide 
what suited her needs. She bought the policy online and so Premium Choice wasnt in a 
position to advise her. So I cant say that Premium Choice misled Ms D about the policy 
excess and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman