DRN-2427156
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to pay a subsistence allowance under 
a home insurance policy while he was out of the country. 
What happened
Mr M is the leaseholder for his flat. He pays a building service charge  which includes 
buildings insurance  to the freeholder, a third party company referred to here as B. B had 
residential property insurance with Aviva.
In October 2019, there was a leak in Mr Ms building which caused significant water damage 
to his flat. Aviva agreed to pay Mr M a subsistence allowance of £500 per week while he 
was forced to live elsewhere. The renovation of Mr Ms flat was completed at the start of 
February 2020.
Aviva found out that Mr M was out of the country for seven weeks in December 2019 and 
January 2020. It said that, because Mr M had arranged to be out of the country before the 
damage to his flat happened, it wouldnt pay the subsistence allowance for this period. 
Mr M doesnt agree with this. He says, in summary:
There were no conditions placed on the weekly allowance agreed with Aviva.
Avivas loss adjuster told him the allowance would cover basic living expenses, 
including bills.
He intended to rent out his flat while he was away. He believed the allowance would 
cover his loss of income, so he didnt make a loss of earnings claim.
The last week of his trip wasnt pre-planned. He only returned to the UK when he 
knew the building work in his home had been completed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He found that Mr 
Ms trip was planned before the damage to his flat and, as Mr M always intended being away 
for this period, Avivas decision not to pay the subsistence allowance was reasonable.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The unique circumstances of Mr Ms trip are well known to 
both parties so Im not going to set them out here. If Im vague about them its to keep Mr M 
from being identified not because Ive ignored them or think them irrelevant.
Second, the policyholder in this case is B. However, the complaint here concerns only the 
subsistence allowance agreed between Mr M and Aviva following the damage to Mr Ms flat. 
As such, Im satisfied that the complaint is one that this service can consider.
Bs insurance policy covers the cost of reasonable alternative accommodation incurred by 
any owner or lessee as a result of any damage covered by the policy. Aviva agreed to pay 
Mr M £500 per week as a subsistence allowance. 
As our investigator explained, Bs policy doesnt define subsistence allowance or set out 
exactly what this covers. It also appears that there was no written agreement between the 
parties. So Ive gone back to first principles to decide whats fair. 
Avivas internal notes and its correspondence with Mr M  in particular, its letter of 19 June 
2020  suggest the allowance was a combination of what it calls alternative 
accommodation and disruption allowances.
The purpose of alternative accommodation insurance is to pay for the reasonable additional 
cost of temporarily rehousing policyholders when their home becomes uninhabitable due to 
damage caused by something covered by the policy  in this case, the water damage to Mr 
Ms flat.
Similarly, disruption (or disturbance) allowance is to cover the reasonable additional costs a 
consumer has incurred due to the damage. For example, the extra cost of having to eat out 
each day when the customer doesnt have access to a kitchen, laundry fees where theres 
no access to a washing machine, or extra travel/commuting expenses when forced to live 
further away from work.
The key principle here is that the insurer should cover reasonable additional costs. That is, 
costs above and beyond what someone would usually pay if the claim hadnt arisen. Its not 
intended to cover existing costs such as mortgage payments, council tax, or utility bills. And 
its not intended to cover loss of rental income due to the property being uninhabitable.
As Ive said above, Mr M has made several arguments why he believes Aviva shouldnt 
withhold the subsistence allowance for the period he was out of the country. Ive considered 
these but I dont think I need to comment on each point to reach the right outcome. Ive 
focused instead on what I think is the key issue.
In this case, what was the purpose of the subsistence allowance? It was to cover Mr Ms 
cost of being rehoused while building work was being done in his home, plus any additional 
costs caused by this disruption.
Aviva told Mr M: We are not required to issue subsistence allowance for the periods in 
which the insured has not been disrupted. I agree with this. Mr M didnt need alternative 
accommodation during the period in question  he was away on a trip that had been planned 
months in advance. And he didnt incur any additional costs during this period  he would 
have incurred these costs even if hed been able to live in his flat. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Aviva doesnt need to pay Mr Ms subsistence 
allowance for this period.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman