DRN-2817726
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way that Society of Lloyds handled his home insurance claim for
flood damage. Although Mr B was the sole policyholder, Ill refer to both Mr and/or Mrs B
throughout.
What happened
In July 2017 after heavy rain Mr and Mrs Bs home suffered flooding which initially affected 
three rooms on the ground floor. They made a claim to Lloyds who appointed a loss adjuster 
who first attended the property in early August. He provided a preliminary report and the 
claim was accepted. Mrs B then reported that she and her son felt unwell and her doctor 
advised her to get testing of the home environment done. She found an environmental 
hygienist (C) who came out and carried out tests and issued a report. This indicated 
dangerous levels of toxic mould in the property and Mr and Mrs B and their family were 
advised to move out immediately. Lloyds provided them with alternative accommodation 
straight away.
Lloyds then agreed a schedule for drying and restoring the property, although driers werent
installed until late October. It agreed for C to be appointed to oversee the proper
decontamination of the property. In June 2018 when the boiler was reinstalled the pipes
burst causing a further escape of water. The contractors reported in October 2018 that the
decontamination was done but C disagreed. Further issues arose over the testing of the
contents but the work was essentially complete by May 2019. Mr and Mrs B wanted to be
reassured that the property was safe so didnt move back until July 2019. They later agreed
a settlement for the contents, although that doesnt form part of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs issues relate to their belief that their health was put at risk in not having the
property tested straight away. They also were very unhappy at being kept out of their home
for two years, when they believe the repairs couldve been completed much more quickly.
They had issues with the contractors not following Cs advice and complained that some of
the work was done negligently. They had further issues with the delay in them receiving
payments in the course of the claim which meant they were having to constantly chase these
up whilst being out of pocket for the costs incurred.
Lloyds reviewed the case and offered Mr and Mrs B £800 compensation. It said the
timescales for handling the claim were too long and that in hindsight it wouldve been better
to appoint a project manager. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that this was sufficient.
On referral to this service our investigator proposed that Lloyds increase the compensation
to £1,500. Lloyds agreed to this but Mr and Mrs B didnt  their view was that the
compensation felt hugely inadequate for the illness, the health fears, not knowing if they had
done permanent damage to their health (still potentially unknown), the stress, the hours and
hours of their lives that were taken up trying to get their home fixed properly and for not
being able to live a normal life in their own home.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought Lloyds should increase the 
compensation to £2,500.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept it. Ill deal with their points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
mould contamination
Mrs B says that she advised the loss adjuster who came out for the initial inspection that she
and her son had pre-existing health conditions and that they had been suffering problems in
the damp property. I understand she says this but I cant see anywhere in the loss adjusters
site notes or his preliminary report that he was made aware of this at the time, and he denies
that he was. He reported back to Mr and Mrs B after the inspection by email concerning
having the flooring inspected, but his report indicated that he didnt see any immediate
issues with contamination, in particular there was no smell indicating the presence of black
water. The flood had occurred some three weeks previously and Mr and Mrs Bs son and
girlfriend had cleaned up the floodwater.
I cant find that the loss adjuster was made aware of Mrs Bs and her sons health issues
until after the visit, by which time they had already instructed C to report. I wouldnt have
expected the loss adjuster to carry out a test on the spot. I think the best that can be said is
that given the obvious level of damage to the flooring, the loss adjuster should have ordered
tests to be carried out. C carried out his inspection within four days, and Lloyds immediately
arranged alternative accommodation. If the loss adjuster had ordered tests, I think it would
have been within the same time frame.
As our investigator has said, we award compensation for what happened rather than what
might have happened. Whilst Mrs B says the loss adjusters refused to pay for Cs report,
they did arrange to do so immediately after receiving it, and agreed for C to project manage
the decontamination of the property and report on the drying. Again I cant presume
something different might have happened.
So whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs alarm at receiving Cs report, they acted quickly
after seeing their doctor, and I cant assume that the loss adjuster wouldnt have acted had
he been aware of their health concerns.
delays
I think there were very serious delays in getting the repairs completed. I think after the first
inspection it was anticipated that the work would take four months. Given the nature of the
loss and Cs report I would have expected strip out and drying to start as soon as possible.
Instead there appear to have been management delays in arranging the necessary
contractor and agreeing what needed to be done. Drying didnt start until the end of October 
2017 by which time any contamination by mould would have got much worse.
Tenders for the repairs were received in January 2018. In February 2018 further reports
indicated the property was still contaminated. Some of this was traced to a previous leak in
the loft space, not connected with the claim. Mr and Mrs B paid for this to be decontaminated
and theres no indication this held up the repairs.Over the winter of 2017-2018, the boiler had been removed, and the system drained down.
The drying company employed by Lloyds advised bringing in some supplemental heating.
This was rejected as there was no water in the pipes. Nevertheless when the boiler was
reinstalled in June 2018, the pipes burst in three places due to frost damage, causing more
damage to the property. Lloyds carried out an extensive investigation, and found that
although the plumber had isolated the leaks, the isolating valves were left open. So it
accepted liability for the further damage and I have to take this into account. This caused a
delay of six weeks while it was being investigated together with the knock-on effect on the
repairs.
In the course of the repairs C was asked to carry out reports on the dryness/contamination of
the property. He had strong disagreements with the drying company brought in by Lloyds
employed but I think that having agreed that he could manage these issues, Lloyds should
have carried out drying to his specifications.
The papers arent very clear about the course of the repairs from October 2018 onwards,
though theres an indication at that stage that C still wasnt satisfied with the cleaning and
drying of the property. There were problems with the contractors laying the wrong flooring,
and Mrs B says the rooms affected by the flood werent sealed off from the rest of the house
(though Lloyds deny that was the case). The contents had to be moved back in and C had to
report he was satisfied they had been decontaminated. I believe that the repairs were
conclude to Cs satisfaction by May 2019, although Mr and Mrs B understandably required
reassurance from their doctor before moving back.
Lloyds indicated to us that repairs should have taken about 12 months, though Im not clear
where it got that figure from. My view is that the repairs should have taken four to six
months, based on the initial assessment of the claim, and the fact that the flood only affected
the ground floor. This timeline was greatly extended by the failure to decontaminate properly
and by the further escape of water, for which I think Lloyds can be held responsible.
failure to appoint a project manager
I think in hindsight Lloyds agreed it shouldve appointed a project manager to oversee the
work. The fact that it didnt caused a lot of inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B as they were
constantly having to chase things. On a number of occasions the main contractors didnt
come to the property or finish parts of the work when they should have. This caused
problems with co-ordination of their work with other contractors.
returning the washing machine with mould in it
This clearly shouldnt have been done, especially given the history of the matter. I dont
doubt it caused inconvenience and frustration.
failures in communication
Mr and Mrs B had to chase on a number of occasions for their expenses. Although the loss
adjusters put in the claims to Lloyds, payments were slow in reaching them. C also had
problems in having his invoices paid, causing him to threaten to withdraw. I think this added
to the stress and inconvenience.
compensation
My view is that the failure to see how serious the initial contamination of the property was
didnt affect the handling of the claim. I fully appreciate that this was because Mr and Mrs Bwere proactive in bringing in C themselves. But as Ive said we cant award compensation for
what might have happened.
I should further point out that Im concerned here with what is the fair and reasonable
amount of compensation to award to Mr and Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience
caused. It isnt intended to fine the business nor to be of an amount to dissuade it from
acting in future the way it did.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B have put to us other examples of how they were
dissatisfied. I wont list them here but overall I do think that, bearing in mind particularly how
long they were out of their property unnecessarily, the figure put forward of £1,500 isnt
enough. Ive taken into account, in deciding the right amount, all my above findings, and how
it affected Mr and Mrs B. I propose to award £2,500 in total, including Lloyds previously
rejected offer.
I should emphasise that I havent considered the issue over the return of the contents nor
the increase in premiums since these are complaints still being dealt with by Lloyds.
In response Mrs B insists that she told the loss adjuster of her and her sons health issues. 
She says her son had been hospitalised in July and she had first gone to see the doctor in 
July, before the loss adjusters visit. She has disclosed to us details of her visits to the 
doctor. She has also pointed out that when she asked Lloyds to pay for Cs first appointment 
it refused.
Ms Bs first appointment with her doctor, before the loss adjusters visit, concerned a matter 
that I can see could be related to stress but not to any reaction to contaminants in the house. 
At the time of the loss adjusters visit I can only repeat what his report and notes say. Mrs B 
has pointed out that there wasnt severe flooding (as I originally said) but the original flood 
only affected three rooms, which concurs with the loss adjusters original view that the 
damage wasnt that serious. And whilst I understand Mrs Bs insistence that she told the loss 
adjuster of her and her sons health problems caused by the environment, theres a direct 
conflict of evidence that I cant resolve there. 
I understand that at first Lloyds wouldnt pay for the hygienist. Thats not surprising - if the 
consumer wants to bring in a specialist at an early stage it would be normal for the insurer to 
review that specialists evidence before agreeing to pay for it. But thats not to say that 
Lloyds wouldnt have taken action itself. I cant predict what might have happened but do 
note that the alternative accommodation was arranged immediately when told of Cs report.
I must also reiterate that I can only require Lloyds to compensate Mr and Mrs B for what 
happened, not what might have happened.
The other point Mrs B makes is concerning the delay in getting the drying started which she 
says led to contamination of the rest of the house, and shes directed me to Mr Bs email in 
October 2017, expressing their concerns. I had seen that email and agree with Mrs Bs 
points, Ive set out in my provisional findings that I think Lloyds was responsible for the delay 
which aggravated the situation.
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs B dont entirely agree with them, I remain satisfied by 
my provisional findings. I have said that compensation should be increased to £2,500 which 
puts this case in the severe category. I think that is the right amount to award, taking into 
account all the circumstances of this case and bearing in mind awards we have made in 
other cases.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.My final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint and to require Society of Lloyds to pay £2,500
compensation to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman