DRN-2164585
The complaint
Mr M complains that a review of his account conducted by Barclays Bank UK PLC did not 
span a wide enough period of time.
What happened
Mr M used to have a credit card with Barclays (trading as Barclaycard). That account has 
been sold to a third party. In October 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr M to tell him that after 
conducting an internal review, it had decided that it had fallen short of its standards when 
dealing with some of its customers when they had been in arrears, and that Mr M had been 
one of them. It therefore refunded him the interest and default fees which he had been 
charged during the period covered by the review. In a subsequent letter, Barclays told him 
that this period began in late 2013. It ended in 2016, as that was when his account was 
closed.
Mr M asked Barclays to broaden its review to cover the period since 2008, as this was when 
he had first fallen into financial difficulty. When Barclays declined to do so, he complained, 
first to Barclays in March 2019, and then to our Service. He also complained that Barclays 
had not paid him interest on the refunds.
Barclays objected to our Service considering anything that had happened more than six 
years before March 2019, i.e. before March 2013, because we generally dont have 
jurisdiction to consider a complaint about events that happened more than six years before 
the complaint is brought.
Our investigator agreed that he would have had no power to consider a complaint about 
unfair charges earlier than 2013, but he did not think that was what Mr M was actually 
complaining about. Rather, he thought that Mr M was complaining about the scope of the 
review Barclays had carried out in 2018, and so this complaint had been brought within six 
years of that event. He said he would therefore consider whether the review should have 
covered a broader period.
However, the investigator did not uphold this complaint. He saw no reason why Barclays 
should extend its review to earlier years. He said no interest needed to be paid on the 
refunds, because Mr Ms account had been in deficit for the whole of the period to which the 
refunds related, so he had not been deprived of the money that hed been charged.
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said, among other things, that hed only 
recently learned about the regulations with which Barclays had been obliged to comply, and 
so our Service did have jurisdiction to consider his complaint, because until then he hadnt 
known that Barclays had done anything to complain about. He insisted that Barclays should 
have done more to help him in 2008, and since.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
I agree with the investigators assessment of our jurisdiction in this matter, but because Mr M 
has challenged it I will go over it again briefly.
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These 
rules include time limits on bringing a complaint to our Service. These say we can normally 
only consider a complaint if it was made within six years of the event complained of, or (if 
later) within three years from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint. We can still consider a 
late complaint if it was late as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr M complained less than a year after Barclays reviewed his account, so Barclays conduct 
of the review is clearly within my jurisdiction. However, Mr M appears to be dissatisfied with 
limiting the scope of his complaint to just that issue, since he has argued that I should also 
be able to consider the events between 2008 and 2013 in their own right.
It is not in dispute that Mr M waited more than six years to complain about matters arising 
before March 2013. He says that he only recently found out about the regulations which 
were made by the FCA in April 2014, and the guidelines issued by the Office for Fair Trading 
before that, and so he only knew that he had cause for complaint less than three years ago. 
He therefore argues that I do have power to consider his complaint about Barclayss alleged 
failures to comply with those regulations and guidelines.
I do not agree. Firstly, the FCAs regulations were not retrospective, and so they only cover 
the period since April 2014, and that entire period was covered by Barclayss review, which 
went back to 2013. Secondly, I dont think the question of whether a complainant knew or 
ought reasonably to have known that he had cause to complain can depend on whether he 
knew about the OFTs guidelines (or about any other guidelines or rules, for that matter, 
including the FCAs). That is because I would not expect many members of the public to be 
familiar with the panoply of regulations and guidelines which the banks have to abide by 
from time to time, and if their ignorance of the rules prevented the clock from running, then 
there would effectively be no real deadline for bringing a complaint. Such a generous 
interpretation of the FCAs time limits would drive a coach and horses through them. So 
I dont think that can be how the FCA intended the three years rule to work.
I do not think that the timing of Mr Ms complaint is the result of exceptional circumstances, 
and so I am bound to conclude that I have no power to consider matters which arose before 
March 2013, except in the context of deciding whether Barclays should have conducted a 
broader review than it did.
Merits
I turn now to the question of whether the review of Mr Bs account should have gone back 
earlier in time. I do not think that it needed to, and so I do not uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
The review was carried out to address a specific issue which was only relevant during the 
period covered by the review. It was never intended to be a free-ranging review of indefinite 
scope. Nor would it have been practical to review every customers account throughout the 
entire lifetime of each account. I recognise that Mr M has not asked for the review to cover 
the whole time that he had his account, only from the first time that Barclays knew or should 
have known that he was in financial difficulty, which he says was in 2008. But in order for Barclays to have established whether Mr M had ever been in financial difficulty before 2013, 
and (if so) when that was, and when that first occurred, Barclays would still have had to 
examine the account history all the way back to its beginning. I think that would be too much 
to expect, since there must be many other accounts which go back for decades.
I realise that Mr M feels strongly about this matter, but I must tell him that I see no reason to 
think that Barclays has not acted properly in this regard, or that the review did not cover 
enough ground to remedy the issue which it was meant to redress. It follows that I cannot tell 
Barclays to carry out another, wider review.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021. But there is no need for him to reply, and if we dont 
hear from him then we will assume that he rejects my decision, and the parties will not be 
bound by it.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman