DRN-2879701
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car acquired with finance from Secure Trust Bank Plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr D was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure Trust.
In July 2020 the car broke down. Since then, Mr D hasnt been able to use the car as it 
needs a new turbo.
Mr D says the supplying dealer initially agreed to replace the turbo but later said the repairs 
werent covered by the warranty.
Mr D complained to Secure Trust. In response, Secure Trust said that because of the 
mileage covered since the point of supply, the fault wouldnt have been present at the point 
of supply. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. He said she had concerns about the durability of the car, given that the turbo 
had failed after only 4 months and 5000 miles. The investigator said that Secure Trust 
should carry out repairs to the turbo, refund Mr Ds monthly payments since 22 July 2020 
and pay compensation.
Secure Trust didnt agree. It obtained an independent inspection which found no oil on the 
dipstick and that the engine had been run low on oil, causing damage to the turbo.
Secure Trust questioned whether the oil light had been illuminated on the car and whether 
Mr D had seen any oil leaks. Mr D said there had been no warning lights and no leaks. Our 
investigator reviewed the further information but didnt change her view.
Secure Trust said it would cover the cost of repairs to the turbo and pay compensation, but it 
didnt agree to a refund of payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Secure Trust supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and 
its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity 
at repair. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mr D and Secure Trust initially disagreed about whether the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Secure Trust acknowledged that there was a fault with the turbo but said it didnt think Mr D 
wouldve been able to cover 5000 miles if the fault had been present at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the inspection report. This concluded that the engine had no oil and that the 
damage to the turbo had been caused by running the car on low oil. The engineer also said 
that the fact that Mr D reported the exhaust smoking and having to fill the car with 4 litres of 
oil when he acquired the car points towards there being something wrong with the car at the 
point of supply. 
Based on the inspection report, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that there as a 
fault at the point of supply. I accept Mr Ds testimony that he topped up the oil. The fact that 
he had to do this so soon after the point of supply suggests an oil leak or oil consumption 
issue. On balance, and whilst Ive taken Secure Trusts comments on board about it being 
Mr Ds obligation to check for oil leaks, I think Mr D did enough by topping the car up with oil 
and reporting the smoking exhaust.
Putting things right
Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, Id expect Secure Trust  
to put things right by repairing the fault.
Mr D hasnt been able to use the car since July 2020. I dont think its fair to expect him to 
make monthly payments for a car hes been unable to use, so Im asking secure trust to 
refund all monthly payments made since 22 July 2020 until the car has been repaired and 
returned to Mr D.
Mr D has suffered trouble and upset as a result of being supplied with a  car which was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Hes had to arrange alternative transport for several months. I think its 
fair to ask Secure Trust to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Secure Trust Bank Plc must :
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D and arrange for repairs to bring the car up to a satisfactory 
quality
Refund any monthly payments made since 22 July 2020 until the car is repaired and 
returned to Mr D
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr D for trouble and upset 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman