DRN-3946273
The complaint
L, a limited company, is unhappy with what Cavendish Munro Professional Risks Limited
(Cavendish) did after it took out professional indemnity insurance through it. L is represented
by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
In 2020 Cavendish offered to obtain quotes for Ls professional indemnity insurance. L
completed a proposal form and ticked a box confirming professional indemnity claims had
been made against it. Notes from the time say this related to a house extension around 9-10
years previously. Cavendish obtained a quote for the insurance which L was happy with. The
insurers Statement of Fact said no claims had been made against L in the last five years.
At renewal the following year L completed a similar proposal form, again ticking the box
relating to previous claims. After seeking quotes from insurers Cavendish asked for further
information on its claims history. L said this had been fully advised the previous year.
Cavendish said it didnt have that information on its systems and while its current insurer
would be aware of anything already provided, it needed this information to provide to
potential new insurers. L provided documents setting out its past claims history (which
included information on five claims in the previous six years).
The current insurer offered renewal terms and L agreed to these. The Statement of Fact
relating to this policy said there had been no claims in the past ten years. At the 2022
renewal Cavendish sought quotes from both the existing and other insurers. The information
it provided included the full claims history. The current insurer said it hadnt previously been
aware of this and it wouldnt have gone on cover if it had known. It didnt offer renewal terms.
Cavendish sought to obtain cover from other insures but had difficulties in obtaining a quote.
L approached a different broker and was able to find cover through them.
L complained to Cavendish. It said it had disclosed its full claims history at the outset and
thought Cavendish hadnt provided that to its insurer. So it argued it had been paying for
insurance that would never have covered it and wanted the premiums to be refunded by
Cavendish. It also thought other insurers had been told L hadnt disclosed its past claims
history and that was what led them to decline to provide cover.
Cavendish said it hadnt been provided with details of Ls full claims history prior to the first
renewal of the policy. And when that was provided it thought this was information the
existing insurer would already have been aware as L said there had been no change from
the previous year. It said it hadnt provided any information to insurers about non-disclosure
on Ls part and thought the difficulties in obtaining cover were related to the full claims
history now being taken into account.
Our investigator thought whether L was covered by its policy could only be considered once
a claim had arisen and been considered by the insurer. And she hadnt seen evidence that
renewal terms werent offered because of any issues relating to non-disclosure. She also
noted we couldnt make an award for distress caused to L because a limited company cant
suffer distress.
L didnt agree. It said it had suffered financial loss because it had paid premiums for a policy
that was invalid and didnt provide cover. And it did believe insurers had refused cover based
on the non-disclosure of its claims history. It also disputed that we couldnt make an award
for distress to a limited company.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
I appreciate L believes its policy with its insurer was invalid and if it had needed to make a
claim this would have been rejected. But while the insurer has been clear it didnt want to
offer renewal terms it hasnt voided the policy or said there was no cover in place. In any
event I dont think thats the key question here. Even if L are correct to say cover wasnt in
place, the issue is whether thats because of something Cavendish got wrong.
In this case that would be because it was told information about Ls claims history that it
should have passed on to its insurer and didnt. L says it did disclose its full claims history at
the outset. Cavendish says while it did tick the box on the proposal form to say claims had
been made against it, the discussion about this related to a house extension 9-10 years ago.
Ive reviewed the information from the start of the policy supplied by Cavendish and L. I cant
see the emails from the time contain any information about claims made against L. Nor do
any of the emails contain the attachments with this information L supplied to Cavendish at
renewal. And I dont think Cavendish did anything wrong in not passing on details about the
historic claim it was told about as the insurer only wanted information on claims in the last
five years.
I also note the Statement of Fact the insurer produced said (on the first page) L hadnt
made any claims in the last five years. The document directed L to check the information
was correct. When Cavendish sent that information to L it also asked it examine it and noted
the requirement to disclose all material matters accurately and completely. So there was an
opportunity here for L to clarify the position in relation to past claims; it would have been
aware from the Statement of Fact the basis on which the insurer had offered cover wasnt
correct.
I appreciate L did provide Cavendish with more information about its claims history at the
subsequent renewal of the policy. Ive considered whether Cavendish should reasonably
have told the insurer about this. I dont think it should. L told Cavendish at the time it had
already provided this information to it and nothing had changed from the previous year
I think the broker dealing with the matter (who wasnt the same individual whod dealt with
the initial proposal) would reasonably have assumed this was information the existing insurer
was already aware of. The Statement of Fact that was then produced again set out the
basis on which the insurer was offering cover and wasnt corrected by L. So if there is an
issue with policy coverage I dont think thats come about because of something Cavendish
got wrong.
L also believes a pool of insurers were told it hadnt declared its past claims history; it
believes thats what led to other insurers declining to offer cover and to its existing insurer
not offering renewal terms. But Ive seen the correspondence between that insurer and
Cavendish and the reason for the decline is that Ls claims history meant cover fell outside
its risk appetite (and would have done if it had been aware of this at the outset). Theres no
indication this decision was taken because it thought L had been at fault in not disclosing this
information. And in any event the decision that insurer took on whether to offer cover isnt
something Cavendish is responsible for.Ive also reviewed the correspondence with the other insurers that Cavendish contacted to
try and obtain cover. It said the reason L needed to seek alternative cover was because the
current insurer wouldnt offer renewal terms following a change of in risk appetite. I cant see
any reference here to there being a concern about L not disclosing its past claims history. So
I dont think Cavendish has done anything wrong here.
L has also questioned our investigators view that we cant make an award for distress to a
limited company. A limited company isnt a natural person and so cant suffer distress in the
same way an individual can. I note the comments Mr M has made about the reasons for
setting up the company in that way but that doesnt change the fact L has a separate legal
identity and L, as the customer of Cavendish, is bringing the complaint to us. So its only the
impact on L we can consider. L could be caused inconvenience or reputational damage and
we could make an award for that if it was caused by something Cavendish got wrong. But for
the reasons Ive already explained I dont think there has been a failing by Cavendish here
so I wont be directing it to do anything to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Cavendish agreed with my provisional decision. L didnt and provided detailed comments in 
response. In summary it said:
It didnt agree a limited company couldnt suffer distress. As its sole director was 
essentially classed as the company he should have the same rights and protection as an 
individual consumer. In any event L had been inconvenienced and there had been a 
potential reputational impact from what it believed Cavendish got wrong.
It provided Cavendish (and other insurance brokers) with full details of its claims history 
from the outset by ticking the relevant box on the proposal form and then providing 
further details of this by email and over the phone. It disputed only information about a 
historic claim had been provided and supplied a March 2020 email to Cavendish which 
attached its full claims history.
It wasnt provided with the Statement of Fact at the time of signing and returning the 
insurance terms acceptance document; this wasnt sent until April 2020 at which point it 
believed its claims history had already been disclosed. It said this information wasnt 
prominently highlighted and was included with other documentation. 
At renewal in 2021 it again provided details of its claims history and Cavendish should 
have checked the insurer was aware of this regardless of its comment that there had 
been no changes from the previous year. Cavendish accepted its previous claims history 
hadnt been properly logged on its system and price differences between quotes 
obtained with and without that history should in any case have led it to question this.
Policy documents were again not provided until after the renewal had concluded and the 
Statement of Fact wasnt highlighted within them. The covering email referred to paying 
particular attention to the policy wording. L said it reasonably assumed the basis on 
which cover had been agreed was correct based on the information it had provided to 
Cavendish.
It thought it was because of a failing on the part of Cavendish the insurer hadnt been 
notified of its claims history. It said the premiums it had paid for this policy should be 
refunded as the failings by Cavendish had effectively left it uninsured for this period. 
Although the insurer hadnt voided the policy it believed it would have turned down any 
claims that were made on the grounds of misrepresentation. Its current brokers had struggled to obtain cover for it and said this was because of the 
non-disclosure of the previous claims history and it thought Cavendish was responsible 
for this. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points L has made about misrepresentation and why it believes any claim it 
made would have been turned down by its insurer. But, as it stands, no claim has been 
made and while the insurer didnt offer renewal terms it hasnt voided the policy or said there 
was no cover in place. However, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think thats the 
key issue here. Even if L is correct in its thinking about the insurers position the issue is 
whether thats come about because of something Cavendish got wrong. 
L says it provided Cavendish with full details of its claims history from the outset. And its 
now provided an email dated 3 March 2020 which includes an attachment with the claims 
history. That isnt an email which was included with its initial submissions to us or with 
Cavendishs response to our inquiries. So we asked Cavendish to recheck its systems and 
confirm whether it received this. Its done so and told us it has no record of this email and its 
systems show the attachment wasnt received until March 2021. And while it did receive an 
email from L on 3 March 2020 this attached the completed proposal form and not its claims 
history.   
Cavendish has provided details of how it records incoming and outgoing emails. And it says 
all the emails in the file already provided to us are visible. It also doesnt appear any 
acknowledgement of receipt of the claims history was provided in March 2020 whereas the 
email attaching the proposal form was acknowledged. On balance, Im satisfied Cavendish 
didnt receive the email from L with its claims history. 
Theres also no indication in the email from L attaching the proposal form that any further 
information on its claims history was to be provided. I appreciate L did tick a box on that form 
confirming claims had been made against it but as it had previously told Cavendish about a 
historic house extension dispute I think it was reasonable of Cavendish to think this was 
what that related to. I dont think Cavendish had any grounds to expect further information 
about Ls claims history to be provided at that time. And I cant therefore say it was at fault in 
not providing information about that to Ls insurer; it cant be responsible for not passing on 
information it didnt have. 
L did provide details of its claims history at renewal in 2021. Theres no dispute that was 
received by Cavendish and I know L feels Cavendish should then have provided that 
information to its existing insurer. I also appreciate the broker dealing with the matter did tell 
L its previous claims history hadnt been logged. 
In fact, as Ive found, the correct position was Cavendish hadnt received that information. 
But I dont think it was in any case unreasonable of the broker to think any relevant claims 
history would have been provided to Ls existing insurer when the policy was taken out. If 
there had been any changes in that information Id have expected Cavendish to provide 
details of that. But L told Cavendish nothing had changed from the previous year. So I think 
it was reasonable of Cavendish to conclude the information on Ls claims history would need 
to be provided to prospective insurers but didnt need to be provided to its existing insurer. L argues price differences between quotes obtained with and without that history should 
have led Cavendish to question whether the existing insurer had full information about this.  
But the evidence Ive seen shows other insurers werent prepared to quote at all. The claims 
history does appear to have been a factor for some insurers but for others it was simply that 
the nature of Ls business fell outside of their risk appetite. I dont see that should have led 
Cavendish to question why the existing insurer was nevertheless prepared to offer cover, 
particularly as this was a renewal invitation.
Ive also considered Ls comments about when it received the Statement of Fact and how 
this was presented. I appreciate it was sent with other documentation and, for the initial sale, 
this was after policy acceptance. But the accompanying correspondence from Cavendish did 
ask it to examine that information and noted the requirement to disclose all material matters 
accurately and completely. And while it did say particular attention should be paid to the 
conditions, endorsements and exclusions it didnt say that was the only thing that needed to 
be checked. 
L says the position was similar at renewal. But I dont think that is the case. Cavendish 
emailed it on 12 April (prior to renewal being confirmed) and attached the Statement of 
Fact. That email said please confirm that you comply with the attached Statement of Fact. 
And that document said L hadnt made any claims in the last ten years. So I think there were 
opportunities both at the initial sale and at renewal for L to clarify the position in relation to 
past claims. Taking everything into account it remains my view that any issues with policy 
coverage dont result from something Cavendish got wrong. 
L also says it struggled to obtain alternative cover because other insurers had been told it 
had failed to disclose its claims history. I understand thats based on information from its 
broker. But it hasnt provided further evidence in support of that. In any case I explained in 
my provisional decision that Id seen correspondence between Cavendish and other insurers 
which didnt make any reference to a failure by L to disclose its claims history. So the 
evidence doesnt show Cavendish did anything wrong here.  
Finally, I appreciate L disagrees with what Ive said about whether a limited company can 
suffer distress. But while it has a sole director it is nevertheless a limited company with a 
separate legal identity and its only the impact on that company we could consider. Thats 
because its the limited company that is bringing the complaint to us and its that company 
which is therefore the eligible complainant under our rules. As Ive explained the company 
can suffer inconvenience or reputational damage (and financial loss), but in order to make 
an award for that it would need to result from a failing by Cavendish. For the reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont think thats the case here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman