DRN-2864169
The complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for his mortgage.
What happened
Mr A took out a PPI policy in 1990 when he arranged a mortgage. He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy wouldve covered his repayments for up to 36 months at a time if 
Mr A was unable to work through accident or sickness and for up to 12 months if he was 
made redundant.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I explain why below.
Santander said that they dont have any documentation from the sale. Its maybe not 
surprising that neither Santander nor Mr A have any documentation from the sale, 
considering this happened in 1990, over 31 years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinity. So, I have no documentary evidence to consider. And I must give some 
thought to the way the passage of time can affect the accuracy of recall from events that 
happened over 31 years ago. But where there is limited information, Ill make my decision 
based on what I think more likely happened, taking into account the evidence available, what 
both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale. So, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, considering how long ago the 
sale was, and in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr A to the contrary, I think its 
more likely that Santander wouldve made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it. 
 
Santander says they recommended the PPI to Mr A. This meant Santander needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
I think Santanders recommendation was right for Mr A based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I explain why below.
Mr A was eligible for the policy and Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, for example, any unusual employment terms or pre-
existing medical conditions.
Mr A told us he couldnt recall his company sick pay entitlement in 1990. And Mr A told us 
that whilst he had some savings he could rely on, he may have had to ask his parents for 
help in the event he couldnt work through ill health for a long time, or if he lost his job. The 
PPI policy wouldve covered Mr A for up to 36 months if he couldnt work through accident or 
sickness, and for up to 12 months in the event he lost his job. So, considering all of this, and 
the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on a home, I think Mr A 
couldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr A.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr A, Santander also had to give him clear 
enough information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Santander gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
So, I do not think that Santander has to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mr A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account:
 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipSantander didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr A said he should get back all the money he paid for the policy because Santander failed 
to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates paid. And he thinks I should find 
that Mr A wouldnt have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission 
and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not driven to conclude that Mr A wouldnt have purchased the policy but for 
Santanders failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr A paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr A 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Santander had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Santander has told us that they have already made this payment. As Santander has already 
paid Mr A compensation on this basis, I dont consider they should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr As complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Santander UK Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Santander UK Plc should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman