DRN-2812276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont deal with their home insurance 
claim for storm damage to their roof.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr T made a claim to AXA after he found that rain had leaked through a 
bedroom ceiling. AXA checked the weather records around about the time of the claim, and 
up to a month before but could find no storm as defined in the policy. Mr T disputed the 
evidence of windspeeds and was unhappy, advising that they had only recently bought the 
property and the building survey showed the roof to be in good order. AXA advised Mr T that 
if he got a detailed roof report explaining the damage and that it was caused by a storm, it 
would consider the claim further. Mr T had the roof repaired at a cost of £3,600 and 
produced the invoice to AXA. However he couldnt produce a detailed report as requested, 
but showed AXA a brief statement from his roofer explaining that the roof needed repairing 
because of a storm. AXA wasnt satisfied that there was a likely claim and rejected it.
On referral to this service our investigator advised that as the records showed there to be no 
storm conditions on or around the time of the claim, AXA acted reasonably in rejecting the 
claim.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator advised, in order to decide whether Mr and Mrs T had a possible claim 
for storm damage it first has to be established that there was a storm. This has to be a single 
identifiable storm. This is defined in the policy as:
A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 25mm
per hour .
Here the weather records were checked for around the time of the claim and up to four 
weeks before and neither the windspeeds or the rainfall approached that figure. Appreciating 
that there may be a more localised storm, Mr T was asked to produce a detailed report from 
his roofer explaining the cause of the damage. The roofer instead produced a brief 
statement which said:
 I have investigated (sic) the damage of the roof and this was caused by the storm. We 
have to fix immediately. 
No photos were taken. I dont think that was helpful in taking matters any further forward.
It is up to the policyholder to show they have a likely claim. Here the weather records 
showed there to be no storm so, having had the roof repaired, it was up to Mr T to show that 
the roof was damaged by a storm or other event. The roofers statement would appear to 
have ruled out any other event, so in the absence of any storm that cover didnt apply. I 
appreciate that Mr Ts building survey of only a few months previously didnt show there to 
be any problems with the roof but there could have been a defect not obvious from a ground 
level inspection.
Mr and Mrs T do have accidental damage cover on their policy but as there has been no 
evidence shown to AXA of any accidental damage to the roof that cover doesnt apply either. 
Mr and Mrs T have produced an invoice for the roof repairs only. The bedroom ceiling was 
wet and presumably dried out. If Mr and Mrs T are claiming for repairing the internal damage 
caused by the water getting in, on the basis that that may have been accidental damage, 
and that cost more than the £350 excess to repair, they should contact AXA further about 
making a claim for that.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman