DRN-3880779
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their 
property insurance claim for damage they say was caused by a storm.
What happened
In autumn 2021, Mr A and Mrs A noticed damage to the roof of their property following a 
storm.  So they contacted AXA to make a claim under their buildings insurance policy.
AXA instructed an agent to assess the damage so they could decide if it had been caused 
by something covered by Mr As and Mrs As policy.  Following their inspection, the agent 
reported to AXA that there was no damage which could be attributed to a single storm.  But 
there was evidence of deterioration of the roof which had occurred over a period of time.
On this basis, AXA declined the claim.
Mr A and Mrs A complained to AXA that they had refused to provide a copy of the report 
their agent had prepared.   AXA replied and explained the report was their property and they 
didnt have to disclose it.  But they confirmed that it contained the same information as a 
letter of findings which their agent had sent Mr A and Mrs A.
Mr A and Mrs A subsequently contacted our service to complain that AXA had unfairly 
rejected their claim.  Although they hadnt first raised this issue with AXA, AXA consented to 
our investigation of this matter.  
Having completed their investigation, our investigator concluded that AXA had acted fairly in 
declining the claim.  He said weather reports for the day Mr A and Mrs A said the damage 
had occurred showed the wind and rain were insufficient to meet the definition of storm in 
their policy.  And he was satisfied that the agents conclusion that the damage was the result 
of general deterioration, which had been highlighted by the storm, not caused by it, was 
reasonable.  
Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr As and Mrs As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its not my role to decide what caused the damage to Mr As and Mrs As property.  Rather, I 
have to decide whether the decision AXA made was fair and reasonable in light of the policy 
terms and other evidence available.
My starting point is the policy document.  That sets out what is covered  and what isnt.
The policy covers storm damage.  A storm is defined as:
A period of violent weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, 
equivalent to storm force 10 on the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale), or torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 
24 hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
In addition, the policy includes this general exclusion:
We will not pay for:
9. Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the 
atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
The weather reports obtained by the investigator show a peak gust of 51 mph on the day   
Mr A and Mrs A say the damage occurred  which doesnt meet the definition of storm 
damage in the policy.
AXA havent taken this point.  Rather, theyve categorised the damage to Mr As and Mrs As 
property as wear and tear.  Ive thought about whether thats fair.
The letter of findings identified several areas on the roof which were in poor repair.  The 
agent who prepared the report has attributed this to a natural breakdown of materials over a 
period of time.   A number of photographs were also provided.
Ive looked at the photos.  Im not an expert.  But I can see they show issues such as 
crumbling mortar to the gable end and slipped tiles  which are all consistent with 
deterioration over a period of time. 
On that basis, I think it was reasonable for AXAs agent to reach the conclusion they did.  I 
appreciate Mr A and Mrs A dont agree.  Theyve provided me with further evidence which 
they say supports their position the damage resulted from the storm.   Ive considered this.  
But it doesnt change my view.  
Mr A has said that in the two or three years before the storm, extensive works were done on 
the roof and that, at the time of the storm it was in a good state of repair.  During these 
works, moisture was noticed in the attic, which ultimately was found to be condensation.
The evidence supplied to support Mr As statement is an invoice from April 2018 and a text 
message exchange from 2022, which I understand relates to work done at some point in 
2020.  The 2018 invoice states that missing tiles were replaced, ridge tiles were re-bedded, 
lead was re-set and the chimney repointed.  Flashing is mentioned, but no details given 
about what work was done on this.
I accept this work was done.  But I cant say this evidences that the entire roof was in good 
condition by late 2021.  And Ive noted the text exchange refers to work also being done 
about 2 to 3 years ago  which I think is consistent with the roof not being in a good state of 
repair all over.
Ive also listened to an excerpt of a call recording Mr A sent us from when he notified AXA 
about the storm damage.  The excerpt confirms that there were issues with condensation in 
the roof ahead of the storm.  And that damage had been painted over but had recurred.  
Rather than persuading me that the damage was caused by the storm, this satisfies me 
there were ongoing issues with the roof before the storm happened.  So I think AXAs 
conclusion that the damage was the result of deterioration over time was reasonable.  And 
that means I dont think they need to do any more to resolve Mr As and Mrs As complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As and Mrs As complaint about that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman