DRN-4039389
The complaint
T, a limited company, has complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined its business 
interruption insurance claim. T is also unhappy with the way the claim was handled.
Mr and Mrs T, directors of T, have brought the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T runs a restoration and conservation business. It had a business interruption policy with 
Lloyds which ran from 9 August 2019 to 8 August 2020. 
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority announced its intention to obtain a court 
declaration aimed at resolving the uncertainty around the validity of many business 
interruption insurance claims (the test case). 
T made a claim to Lloyds in May 2020 after the business was affected by Covid-19. In June 
2020 Lloyds told T that its preliminary assessment was Ts losses werent covered by the 
policy but that the claim might be impacted by the test case.
In January 2021 the Supreme Court issued its judgment in the test case. As a result of that 
judgment Lloyds asked T for information regarding its claim. 
The policy covered T for losses resulting from restrictions on the use of its premises due to 
physical loss or damage and restrictions imposed by a local authority. In October 2021 
Lloyds declined the claim. It said there hadnt been any physical loss or damage to Ts 
premises. It also said there were no restrictions on the use of Ts premises as it hadnt been 
required to close during the various lockdowns.
T disagreed. It made the following points:
It was unable to deliver any work online.
Its experienced staff were unable to work from home.
The equipment and materials needed are often heavy and need to be operated in the 
controlled atmosphere of the workshop.
Orders were cancelled or reduced, particularly from hotels and restaurants which had 
to close during the lockdowns.
It couldnt generate new business due to travel restrictions.
Lloyds thought these losses resulted from general market issues and/or the result of 
restrictions on individuals right to travel, neither of which were covered by Ts policy. It 
offered T £75 compensation for the way it had handled the claim.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Ts policy covered:
loss of income and increased costs resulting directly from the interruption of your 
business caused by physical loss or physical damage to property
I havent seen any evidence that Ts business was interrupted because of any physical loss 
or physical damage to its property or other property as a result of Covid-19 or the 
Governments restrictions. So Im satisfied that T hasnt shown it has a valid claim under 
this part of the policy.
The policy also says:
we will also pay you for the loss of income and increased costs resulting from the 
restrictions on the use of your premises:
i. imposed by the local authority.
Lloyds hasnt made an issue of the fact that the lockdown restrictions were imposed by the 
Government rather than a local authority. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close for the emergency period. The businesses 
required to close by these regulations were largely those where members of the public 
might attend. Significantly, businesses that operated with little in the way of public 
interaction were not specifically required to close. Ts business wasnt one of the types of 
business specifically directed to close by these regulations. 
T says that the message from the Government was that non-essential businesses should 
close and it classes its business in that category. I agree that T wasnt providing an 
essential service. But I dont think that matters. In my opinion the Governments focus 
was on closing non-essential high street businesses such as hairdressers, clothes shops 
etc which might be visited by the general public.
So, I agree with Lloyds that the regulations did not direct T to close. I do appreciate that 
many businesses in the sector T provides services to, such as hotels and restaurants, 
were directed to close. And that the consequence of this was that T had less work. But 
Ts policy does not provide cover for, what is effectively, a downturn or loss of market. As 
a result, I dont consider it would be fair for me to require Lloyds to cover Ts claim on 
this basis.
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would have likely had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But it was a 
reasonable excuse for someone to travel to work where it was not reasonably practical for 
that person to work from home. Also, Ts commercial customers would have been allowed to 
visit its premises for work purposes. Consequently I dont think these restrictions would have 
prevented Ts business from remaining open either.
T says that it wouldnt have been possible for staff or clients to keep socially distanced 
whilst on its premises and it wasnt possible for its staff to work safely in its studio. If T had 
kept its studio open during the first lockdown, it would have needed to carry out a health 
and safety risk adjustment and have specific measures in place. But I havent seen any 
evidence that it incurred a loss of income or increased costs because of any such 
requirements. Instead, T has told us:When the government ordered schools, shops, hotels, restaurants, funeral parlours, parks 
and churches to close, we deduced as a non-essential business we were also required by 
law to close.
Unfortunately Ts conclusion was incorrect. So, while there may have been restrictions on 
the use of Ts premises if it had remained open, I dont think this was the reason it suffered 
a loss.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to T. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay its claim.
Ive also looked at how Lloyds handled Ts claim. In February 2021 it appointed a loss 
adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster contacted T by email and said it would 
like to discuss the claim with it. T replied the next day giving its contact details. At the end of 
April T chased the loss adjuster because he hadnt contacted it. They had a call in early 
May. On 7 June 2021 T provided the information requested by the loss adjuster. There was 
some correspondence between the loss adjuster and Ts accountant in July about the extent 
of Ts losses. I appreciate it must have been very disappointing for Mr and Mrs T to find that 
Ts claim was later declined after they had been put through this process. I can only award 
compensation for the inconvenience suffered by T as it is the complainant. 
I also think there was a failing on the part of Lloyds in asking for information that required 
work by Ts accountant when it should have been clear to it that the claim wouldnt be 
accepted. In the circumstances I think the sum of £200 is fair and reasonable to 
compensate T for the delay in handling the claim and the trouble it was put to in providing 
information unnecessarily.
In addition I think Lloyds should reimburse T for the unnecessary accountancy costs 
involved it incurred. I understand the costs were £990 in total. As a result of having to pay 
these fees T lost the use of funds that it would otherwise have had. To put this right Lloyds 
should pay interest on the amount of the fees at a rate of 8% simple a year from the date T 
paid the fees to the date of settlement.
In summary Mrs T said they were very disappointed with my provisional decision and had 
been put through years of stress and inconvenience.
Lloyds had previously told us it would pay Ts accountancy fees plus interest as a gesture of 
goodwill. It didnt challenge the £200 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As T and Lloyds dont have any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
I can understand that it must have been very disappointing for Mr and Mrs T that I havent 
upheld Ts complaint. I do appreciate that they have suffered a lot of stress as a result of the 
way the claim has been handled. As explained above, unfortunately for them in considering 
this complaint I can only look at the effect Lloyds claim handling had on T. As a limited 
company T can suffer inconvenience and I remain of the view that the sum of £200 is 
appropriate to compensate T for that.Putting things right
To put things right I think Lloyds should:
reimburse T for its accountancy costs of £990 if it has not already done so; 
pay T interest on the accountancy costs of £990 from the date on which such costs 
were paid by T until the date of settlement. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 
8% a year.
pay T compensation of £200 (less any amount already paid in this regard) for the 
delay and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman