DRN-4178935
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted Covea to make a claim. He said hed found water on the floor of a bathroom. 
He had lifted the cistern lid and it flipped and broke part of the toilet. He called a plumber 
who carried out a repair but also found a hairline crack in the base of the cistern. Mr B didnt 
know if he had caused the hairline crack or if it was already there. Covea considered the 
claim and then declined it. When Mr B contacted Covea again, it agreed to send a surveyor 
to assess the damage. Covea then declined the claim again because it said its surveyor 
found evidence of long-term staining to the floor and there was no extraction fan in the 
bathroom, which might have contributed to the issue.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained, Covea maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
said the staining to the floor indicated the leak had been ongoing for some time. The cistern 
and pipework also werent available for inspection. It said for it to cover the claim, Mr B and 
Mrs B would need to confirm the damage was the result of a single act. They would also 
need to provide evidence that the pipework wasnt damaged due to wear and tear.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Covea 
hadnt considered all the evidence provided by Mr B as part of the claim. He said Covea 
should pay Mr B £300 compensation.
As Covea didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mr B contacted Covea, he reported two issues. The first was that he had found water 
on the bathroom floor that was coming from the toilet. The second was that when he tried to 
find the source of the issue he dropped the cistern lid, which damaged the toilet. When a 
plumber visited, he found a crack in the base of the cistern. The plumber didnt know if the 
crack had been there for a long time or whether the crack happened when Mr B dropped the 
lid. Mr B also didnt know if it might be the cause of the water found on the floor.
Covea initially declined the claim, but then agreed to send a surveyor. When the surveyor 
visited the cistern wasnt in the bathroom and the flooring had already been taken up. The 
surveyors report included several photos and said: When the surveyor inspected the floor 
he observed that the damage was caused by the damage is due to condensation which has 
been occurring over a number of years outside the sanitary ware along with the spillage on 
the floor.
The customer did not require a declinature letter. (As original)
The surveyor also seemed to record a voice note of his visit. I havent been able to listen to 
the voice note, but Ive read a summary of it, which said:
staining to the wood  probable condensation, a build up over the years  no fan in the 
bathroom. [The surveyor company] were told it was a crack in the pan (no evidence of this) 
and then told cistern.
Covea declined the claim because it said the cistern wasnt available for inspection when the 
surveyor visited. It said this meant it was unable to assess if the leak was the result of an 
insured peril. 
I noted the surveyors report and voice note summary didnt say the cistern wasnt available 
during the visit. Mr B told this service the cistern was at the property. I asked Covea to 
explain why it had later said the cistern wasnt available. Covea had also said that only a 
decorator was at the property when the surveyor visited, whereas Mr B said Mrs B was also 
there. I asked Covea to provide evidence of who was at the property and who the person 
was that told the surveyor they didnt require a declinature letter. I also asked Covea to 
provide evidence to show the surveyor had found there to be staining to the floor which 
indicated that the leak had been ongoing for some time, which it said to Mr B and Mrs B in 
response to their complaint, as that wasnt what it said in the surveyors report. Covea didnt 
provide me with any further explanation or evidence to support what it had said.
I also asked Covea to explain what consideration it had given to the surveyor referring to a 
spillage, which might suggest a one-off event, and whether it considered Mr B and Mrs Bs 
report from the plumber who attended to deal with the leak. I also asked Covea whether it 
had taken into account that the flooring in the bathroom had been removed by Mr B following 
the leak, so the floor the surveyor looked at was the surface under the normal floor. Covea 
didnt provide evidence to show it had considered these issues.
So, based on what Ive currently seen, I dont think there is enough evidence to support the 
reasons given by Covea for declining the claim and I dont think Covea has shown that it 
fairly declined it. In the circumstances, I think it is reasonable for me to accept Mr Bs 
explanation that the cistern was available for inspection and that the surveyor didnt inspect 
it. So, I think Covea had the opportunity to fully investigate the claim, but didnt do so. It is 
my understanding that the cistern is no longer available, as Mr B and Mrs B seemed to 
dispose of it following the surveyors visit. I dont consider that unreasonable. So, I currently 
intend to say Covea should settle the claim for the reported damage, as I think that is the 
fairest way to resolve the claim in the circumstances. If settlement is paid as a cash 
settlement, Covea should also pay interest on that amount, as Mr B and Mrs B lost use of 
the money.
I also think Mr B and Mrs B were caused concern and inconvenience by the way Covea 
assessed their claim. So, I also intend to say Covea should pay Mr B and Mrs B £300 
compensation to recognise this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 June 2022.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt reply.
Covea replied and, in summary, it:
referred back to a phone conversation between Mr B and Covea in which Mr B described 
dropping the cistern lid. It said that if the cistern lid was accidentally cracked when this was removed, it would record it as two separate incidents, as I had said it needed to 
repair all of the damage.
said we should advise Mr B that an excess would be required for both claims, one of 
which would be an escape of water excess.
said it disagreed with my decision and said Mr B had changed the circumstances on 
several occasions and had photos of everything except the damage, but it had no option 
but to accept.
suggested Mr B spoke to his broker about the impact of the claims going forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered the comments in response to my decision and I note that Covea has now 
said it will deal with it as two separate claims. So, Ive thought about this.
When Covea responded to Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint, it said When registering your claim, 
you informed us that there had been a leak from the cistern of your toilet. When removing 
the lid from the cistern this was dropped possibly causing further damage. 
It then went on to say:
As the Claims Team were unable to inspect the original cistern and pipework they have 
been unable to confirm if the leak was as a result of an insured peril. In order for you to claim 
under the Accidental Damage section of your policy you would need to confirm what single 
act caused the damage which resulted in the leak. In order for you to claim under the 
Escape of Water section of your policy you would need to provide evidence that the pipe 
work wasnt damaged due to Wear and Tear. This is no longer possible as the items have 
been replaced and disposed of.
So, at that time Covea seemed to suggest to Mr B and Mrs B that the claim could, subject to 
appropriate evidence, be accepted as either accidental damage or an escape of water. It 
didnt say that it might be necessary to deal with the reported circumstances as two claims. I 
also note that although the cistern lid was broken, it isnt clear that the toilet or cistern didnt 
need to be replaced anyway as a result of the leak and that dropping the cistern lid therefore 
made a difference to this and required a separate claim. 
Covea has had the opportunity to provide evidence of what happened during the visit and to 
demonstrate why its conclusions were reasonable, but it hasnt done so. I remain of the view 
that Covea needs to settle the claim and Im not persuaded it has provided sufficient 
evidence to show it is fair to deal with it as two separate claims.
Putting things right
Covea should settle the claim for the reported damage. If it pays a cash settlement, it should 
pay interest on that amount. It should also pay £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is decision 
that this complaint is upheld. I require Covea Insurance plc to:Settle the claim for the reported damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement from the date on which the claim was first 
made to the date on which the payment is made.
Pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman