DRN-3436681
The complaint
X has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
X has a personal accident insurance policy with AXA. After an incident in which X sustained 
injuries, she made a claim for permanent total disability (PTD) benefit which AXA declined. It 
said that although Xs disability was permanent, it wasnt total. 
X was awarded Employment Support Allowance (ESA) in 2015 and following a work 
capability assessment by a doctor in 2017, her allowance was increased. This was because 
X was assessed as having severe health problems and wasnt able to work.
X complained to AXA but it maintained its decision to decline the claim and so she referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that X had proven that she met the 
definition of PTD and said AXA should pay the claim. He also recommended £250 
compensation for the poor way in which the claim was handled.
AXA said it didnt dispute that Xs condition was permanent. But said there was no mention 
of a total disability. And so it doesnt believe Xs condition meets the definition of a PTD as 
defined by the policy. It also said X cannot benefit from permanent partial disability (PPD) as 
the policy was upgraded after her incident and so PPD benefit wasnt available at the time of 
the incident.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2022 which I adopt as my final decision. Thank 
you to both sides for responding. As both sides have accepted my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I have set my decision out in full here.
The relevant rules and regulations say AXA must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy definition of PTD is:
Permanent total disability means a total and permanent disability which medical 
evidence confirms will last for the rest of your life and which stops you doing any paid 
job which your experience, education or training reasonably qualifies you to do.
AXA accepts Xs disability is permanent but doesnt accept it is total. Which means AXA 
doesnt think Xs disability is stopping her from doing any paid job which her experience, 
education and training reasonably qualifies her to do, based on the above definition. 
So the key consideration for me is whether the evidence suggests X can work and whether 
AXA fairly declined the claim.
Ive reviewed and considered all of the medical evidence provided by both sides and have 
summarised the key medical evidence relevant to this complaint.
The key medical evidence:
October 2018  X was reviewed by a Consultant Otolaryngologist  she confirmed X 
suffered from dizziness, positional vertigo and diplopia and referred her on to a Neurologist.
September 2019  X saw another Consultant Otolaryngologist who found Xs symptoms 
were compatible with the head trauma she had suffered. 
October 2019  AXA arranged for an independent medical examination (IME) which took 
place with a Consultant Otolaryngologist. He said he would reserve his opinion about 
whether X had sustained a permanent and total disability as a result of the accident until X 
had been seen by an expert Neurologist.
December 2019  X saw a Consultant Otolaryngologist again who said she struggled to 
walk, her diplopia was severe and she was disabled by all her symptoms. She said her 
disability was likely to be permanent. 
May 2020  X was seen by a Consultant Neurologist who confirmed she suffered with 
vertigo due to the incident. The Consultant said Xs case had been studied in great detail 
along with reports from the other specialists and concluded 100% of Xs symptoms arose 
from the incident. The Consultant said Xs physical signs all related to the brain stem and its 
connections.
June 2020  the Consultant Otolaryngologist who had carried out the IME, provided an 
updated report and said X was more likely that not to have a permanent disability but he 
wouldnt describe this as total. 
And so AXA maintained its decline.
X obtained further medical evidence from her GP and Consultant Neurologist who both 
concluded that X was getting progressively worse and there would be no improvement in her 
condition.  
The Consultant commented that X wouldnt be able to work at the high level of her previous 
employment (as an educational consultant and education inspector) and menial 
administrative tasks would be difficult as X would need to fix her vision and not move her 
head. The Consultant said: 
your concentration is significantly impaired by the sensation of dizziness as well 
as the disturbance of vision. Any head movements give rise to symptoms and that 
gives rise to disturbed vision and symptoms of disequilibrium. These on-going 
symptoms give rise to anxiety and depression. Regretfully therefore I dont think you 
will be able to workDisappointingly therefore I dont think that employment in any 
role would be feasible for you.Our investigator sent this further evidence to AXA but it continued to maintain its decline. 
AXA seem to be suggesting that X may meet the definition of permanent partial disability but 
that this cover wasnt available until after the incident.  PPD is defined as follows:
Permanent Partial Disability (PPD) provides cover for partial disability that you suffer 
within 24 months of an accident and which medical evidence confirms will last the 
rest of your life. Cover includes Partial loss of use. 
Example: If you suffer an accident which results in 20% permanent partial loss of 
your ability to undertake any work or occupation which you are reasonable(sic) 
qualified to do then we will pay you 20% of your Permanent Total Disability.
Based on the above, I would expect to see some evidence and an explanation of why AXA 
thought X was able to work, in a reduced capacity. But I havent seen any evidence which 
suggests that X would be able to work in any capacity at all. 
Based on the totality of the above medical evidence including the additional evidence X has 
provided, Im satisfied that Xs disability is permanent and total. Her GP and treating 
Consultant have confirmed she will be unable to work again. And she is in receipt of ESA 
benefit after being assessed by a doctor as being unable to work. 
Ive taken everything into account including the IME Consultants report. But his report 
doesnt comment on Xs ability to work and doesnt explain in any detail why he doesnt think 
Xs disability is total. The IME consultants updated report was brief and not as detailed as 
the other specialists comments involved in Xs care. So I find the evidence of the treating 
Consultant more persuasive based on the ongoing care of X and because the IME is silent 
on Xs ability to work. 
In conclusion, I consider X meets the definition of PTD under the terms of the policy and 
consequently, is entitled to the PTD benefit. 
The claims handling
Our investigator has provided a detailed timeline which demonstrates that AXA handled the 
claim poorly. I wont repeat it in full here but will summarise the key points:
AXA wrote to X to say it hadnt received information it required and so it would close 
her claim. But it had already received the information it had requested.
Duplicate information requests were sent. 
The IME wasnt arranged until October 2019 and X herself had to call to arrange this.
X made several calls to ensure the claim wasnt closed when AXA wrongly informed 
her that it hadnt received information it had requested.
Having considered the above, I agree that AXAs handling of the claim caused X some 
distress and inconvenience. Although it can take time for these claims to be assessed, I 
wouldnt expect repeat mistakes. And so I think a payment of £250 compensation is 
appropriate to recognise the impact of the poor handling.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to:accept Xs claim for PTD benefit and pay it in line with the terms and conditions. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date the claim 
was submitted to the date of settlement.
pay £250 compensation for the poor handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman