DRN-4061978
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat 
(Western Circle), lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Western Circle, here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Date approved Amount Term Repayments
(highest listed 
here)closed
1 28 April 2021 £300 4 months £129.25 13 May 2021
2 19 March 2022 £1,000 6 months £307.40 8 May 2022
3 14 June 2022 £300 4 months £151 27 June 2022
Mr S repaid each loan early. The ten month gap between loans 1 and 2 was pointed out by 
Western Circle and acknowledged by our adjudicator as a significant break in the lending 
relationship. Our adjudicator treated loans 2 and 3 as a new loan chain. I agree with that. 
After Mr S had complained through his representative, Western Circle sent to it, for Mr S, its 
final response letter (FRL). It did not agree that it had done anything wrong but it did offer to 
Mr S a one-off refund of £50 in full and final settlement of the complaint. Mr S rejected it and 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Western Circle had carried 
out the appropriate and proportionate checks and so she did not think that the lender had 
lent irresponsibly. 
Mr Ss representative gave no reasons but asked for the complaint to be reviewed and so 
the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Western Circle had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Western Circles checks couldve taken into account 
several different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Western Circle should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors 
include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. But as there were two loan 
chains here I do not consider that a pattern of lending had developed in either as Mr S had 
taken one loan and then just two. 
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Western Circle took copies of payslips for each loan application and so that would have 
been the best way to verify his income. The income figures were between £1,476 and 
£1,715 after tax in the months to which the payslips related. 
Western Circle was aware that Mr S had a second job but the payslip showed he was on 
furlough at the time and so it did not factor in that additional £800 (after tax) a month.  But it 
has submitted to us that this extra income had given its own underwriters confidence in 
Mr Ss ability to afford the loans. I consider that a reasonable and prudent approach. 
Mr S had declared his monthly outgoings and these were: 
Loan 1 - £150 food/groceries, £0 travel, £28 utility bills, £50 other credit 
commitments, £169 loan repayments, £175 rent/mortgage
Loan 2 - £0 food/groceries, £10 travel, £20 utility bills, £0 other credit commitments, 
£101 loan repayments, £151 rent/mortgage
Loan 3 - £150 food/groceries, £25 travel, £25 utility bills, £100 other credit 
commitments, £170 loan repayments, £175 rent/mortgageIts a little odd that Mr S had declared zero pounds for food for loan 2, but Western Circle 
has said that the monthly expense totals provided by the applicant were tested using a third 
party set of trigger values, which took account of the applicant's location, job, and 
homeowner status, etc. And it explained that  In the event that the trigger values result in 
higher expense figures than those provided by the applicant, we use the higher figures in
our affordability assessment. 
It was not a requirement for Western Circle to have carried out a credit check. And loans 1 
and 3 were for modest sums over four month terms. And loan 2 was the first loan in the 
second loan chain and for £1,000 over six months . 
Mr S has sent to us, through his representative, his copy bank account statements. But for 
these loans and in these circumstances I do not consider that Western Circle would have 
been prompted to have asked for or reviewed any bank account statements. There was 
nothing in the information it had  including his loan repayment history- which likely would 
have prompted it to do that. 
So, I am satisfied that Western Circle carried out the checks I would have expected to see 
for each of these loans. Overall, I consider the checks it did were satisfactory and in 
proportion. 
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman