DRN-3573737
The complaint
Ms L complains that the broker, One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call), didnt make 
it clear to her that her policy was underwritten by more than one insurer. She says, because 
of that, she wasnt covered for an accidental damage claim.
What happened
Ms L bought her buildings and contents insurance policy through the broker, One Call, in 
2014. The policy included extended accidental damage cover and she renewed each year.
In 2021, Ms L contacted One Call to make an accidental damage claim for a broken window. 
However, broken windows and door frames werent insured under the extended accidental 
damage cover and Ms L didnt have any other accidental damage cover. Her claim was 
declined.
Ms L complained to One Call because she believed her policy was underwritten by a single 
insurer (Insurer A) when in fact the extended accidental damage was underwritten by Insurer 
B. Ms L didnt think One Call had made that clear and she thought that if the accidental 
damage cover was provided by Insurer A, her claim wouldve been covered. 
One Call looked into her complaint, but it said the policy documents clearly showed which 
underwriter was responsible for each part of the policy. However, it agreed it had caused 
some confusion by transferring Ms Ls claim request to Insurer A, even though it didnt 
provide accidental damage cover for her.
Ms L was dissatisfied with the response. She wanted One Call to reimburse her £1,800, 
which was the cost of replacing her window.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint because they thought One Call had provided 
enough information in the policy documents to make it clear that the policy was underwritten 
by two separate insurers.
Ms L didnt agree. She said shed always bought accidental damage cover and she believed 
she had it with this policy. Ms L also said the advisors at One Call didnt even realise 
because they kept telling her she had accidental damage cover.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Ms L will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
I wont repeat the detail of the complaint here, or reference every single piece of evidence. 
Our rules dont require me to. Instead Ill focus on the key issues and comment on the 
evidence which best helps me explain my decision.
Policy underwriter
The policy Ms L bought was branded as a One Call policy. The policy documents set out the 
level of cover and the underwriter providing that cover. Having reviewed the policy, I can see 
that Insurer B is named as the underwriter in the following documents:
Extended Accidental Damage policy booklet
Accidental Damage Cover Policy schedule
Insurance Product Information Document
The policy schedule for the standard buildings and contents cover is branded as Insurer A; it 
doesnt include cover for accidental damage, and it is a separate document to the Extended 
Accidental Damage policy.
Renewal documents show Insurer A as the policy provider, but sets out the additional cover 
provided, including extended accidental damage, and confirms the underwriter for that cover 
is insurer B. The letter also states that One Call only uses one underwriter (Insurer B) for 
additional cover not included as standard with insurer A.
Having considered these documents, its reasonable to say One Call provided sufficient 
information to Ms L to make her aware that the extended accidental damage cover was 
underwritten by a different insurer to that of her standard home insurance.
Claim
I understand Ms L is not complaining about Insurer Bs decision to decline her claim for the 
accidental damage because she is aware it isnt covered under its policy. She does, 
however, say if One Call had made her aware of the different underwriters, she thinks her 
claim wouldve been successful.
So, Ive thought carefully about Ms Ls comments to decide whether anything One Call did 
caused her a loss. One Call provided the information for Ms L to read to decide whether the 
policy was suitable for her. Even if she hadnt noted the two different underwriters, the level 
of cover was still made clear to her. Therefore, its reasonable to say Ms L accepted the 
cover having full knowledge of the limitations. I cant reasonably say One Call caused Ms L 
any loss.
Compensation
Ms L said One Call acknowledged its error because it offered her £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused. Having looked at why One Call made that offer, its clear it was for 
directing her to Insurer A in error. I agree that was a mistake and represents a shortfall in 
service. But its mistake caused inconvenience rather than a loss. Whether or not it directed 
Ms L to the insurer didnt change the fact that she didnt have accidental damage cover with 
it. Im satisfied its offer of £50 is fair, in the circumstances, to acknowledge the 
inconvenience.
I can only sympathise with the position Ms L found herself in when her policy didnt cover the 
damage caused by a third party. But I havent seen anything in the evidence to show that 
One Call caused her any loss. Therefore, I wont be asking One Call to reimburse the cost of 
the replacement window.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman