DRN-2915921
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a lifetime mortgage he took out with more 2 life Ltd in 2019. He is 
unhappy about the administration of the mortgage when he repaid it in early 2021. 
In resolution of the complaint Mr R wanted more 2 life to provide him with written 
confirmation that the mortgage had been repaid in full, that the charge had been removed 
from the property title and provide him with a suitable apology. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr R asked for a redemption statement for his mortgage, assuming a 
redemption date of 1 March 2021. This was emailed to him on 1 March 2021. It confirmed 
that the statement was only valid on that date and if the redemption was to be made at a 
later date, it would need to issue him with a new statement. Mr R made a transfer by CHAPS 
from his bank account on the same day and emailed more 2 life to tell it that hed done so.
On 7 March 2021 Mr R emailed more 2 life to chase a response to his email of 1 March and 
an acknowledgement of the payment.
On 22 March 2021 Mr R emailed more 2 life again and highlighted that he hadnt received 
written confirmation, on company headed paper, of receipt of payment, that the mortgage 
had been settled or that the charge had been removed. He said this was completely 
unacceptable. He informed more 2 life that it had seven days to provide the documentation 
that he wanted, or he would contact this service and the regulator, along with leaving 
negative online reviews. 
The following day more 2 life apologised for not having immediately responded to Mr Rs 
email of 1 March and confirmed that his payment had been received. It stated the mortgage 
had been redeemed and that it would prepare the paperwork for the charge to be removed 
from the property title.
A few days later more to life sent Mr R an annual statement, which detailed how much he 
owed under the mortgage and broke it down into the original capital advance and the interest 
that had accrued. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service on 11 April 2021. He told us that he was given a 
very short window to repay the mortgage and then didnt receive any communication 
confirming receipt of the money or confirmation that the charge had been removed from his 
home. 
Mr R complained to more 2 life again in April 2021. More 2 life responded the day after it 
received the complaint letter. It started by apologising for the lack of response to his previous 
correspondence. It explained that it had encountered a technical issue when closing his 
account. This meant that the account wasnt closed on its systems until after the annual 
statement was sent on 26 March 2021. It also confirmed that the account was closed (and 
provided a mortgage statement showing this) on 30 March 2021. Unfortunately, the 
paperwork to remove its charge on the title wasnt automatically produced at this point, as it 
should have been. However, more 2 life confirmed that its solicitors had now submitted the 
relevant documentation to the Land Registry. A copy of the Land Registry acknowledgement 
of receipt was attached to the response email. more 2 life again apologised for the delays 
and service Mr R had received.
Following receipt of more 2 lifes response, Mr R confirmed that he wanted this service to 
consider the complaint. He told us that he didnt believe more 2 life when it said it had 
computer issues that had caused the problem with closing his mortgage account. This was 
because in one of his telephone conversations with customer services in March 2021 he was 
told that immediate action would be taken, but nothing was done. Mr R also expressed 
dissatisfaction that more 2 life had sent the discharge form to the Land Registry in a paper 
format rather than electronically, as this meant that it would take over two months to 
process. This meant that the charge wouldnt be removed until the middle of July, when the 
mortgage had been paid off on 1 March 2021, which he considered was an unacceptable 
amount of time.
Subsequently, more 2 life wrote to Mr R again. It upheld his complaint about the service hed 
received and offered him £250 for the upset and inconvenience this may have caused him. It 
pointed out that it had no control over how long it took the Land Registry to action the forms 
that had been sent to it. However, it had received confirmation this had been completed on 
26 April 2021. 
The information more 2 life gave Mr R about the charge having been removed was incorrect. 
It wrote to him and confirmed that it had no control over the time it took the Land Registry to 
action a discharge. However, it confirmed that when it received the relevant documentation 
from the Land Registry for the discharge to be completed, it would sign it and send it back 
immediately.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He agreed that the service Mr R had received was not acceptable as there were 
delays in the redemption payment being acknowledged, the mortgage account being closed 
and the discharge documents being issued to the Land Registry. However, he considered 
the £250 offered and the apology already given were enough to compensate Mr R for the 
mistakes. 
Mr R responded to the investigator and pointed out that had more 2 life used the electronic 
system to remove the charge on his property, it would have been done within 24 hours. He 
was of the opinion that more 2 life had a duty of care to see that the instruction if had given 
the Land Registry was completed correctly and in a timely manner. He considered that more 
2 life could have sent an electronic instruction, which would have solved the problem, but it 
had failed to do so.
more 2 life confirmed that it was a relatively small business and didnt have access to the 
electronic system that Mr R believed it should have used to release its charge. It explained 
that as this was the case, it could only discharge by the method it had. 
Our investigator explained this to Mr R. He explained that as more 2 life couldnt do what 
Mr R thought it should have, he couldnt require it to use that process. Mr R remained 
dissatisfied with the investigators conclusion and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I will firstly comment on the matter of the method of discharge more 2 life used when 
informing the Land Registry its charge was to be removed. The discharge process can be 
done in two ways  the first is the traditional paper forms being sent to the Land Registry and 
the second via a more recently introduced electronic system. Whilst most of the larger 
lenders do now use the electronic system, it isnt a requirement for a lender to do so and 
many of the smaller lenders dont because its not economically viable for them. 
This service doesnt have the power to tell a financial business what its processes should be 
and so, if a lender has decided not to sign up for the electronic system with the Land 
Registry, I cant tell it to do so. Nor can I make a finding that the lender has failed in its 
service to its customer in such a situation. I would also comment that I cant hold more 2 life 
responsible for the time it takes the Land Registry to release the charge as more 2 life has 
no control or influence over the Land Registrys internal processes.
That said, the service Mr R received was clearly below that which he had a right to expect. I 
would have expected more 2 life to have acknowledged his payment and confirmed the 
mortgage was paid off earlier than the week it took. I also dont think that this 
acknowledgement would have been sent at that time had Mr R not chased for it. I know that 
Mr R wasnt happy that this confirmation wasnt provided in the format he wanted. However, 
as he had received the confirmation he needed, I cant find that him not receiving a hard 
copy confirmation was a failing on more 2 lifes part.
However, there were clearly delays caused in the closure of the account within more 2 lifes 
systems. This then led to a failure to send the Land Registry the discharge forms. Overall, 
the forms appear to have been delayed by around seven weeks. It doesnt appear that this 
has caused Mr R a financial loss, but it has clearly been frustrating for him. more 2 life has 
apologised for its service failings and offered Mr R £250 compensation. I know Mr R wont 
agree with me, but I think it is a reasonable amount in the circumstances. If Mr R wants to 
accept this sum, he should contact more 2 life directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
18 November 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman