DRN-2845617
The complaint
Mr Fs complained about the way Soteria Insurance Limited dealt with him during a motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
In the second half of 2019, Mr F was involved in what he thought was a minor collision with 
another car.  His car wasnt damaged, but the other car suffered damage to one wing.  Mr F 
and the other driver exchanged details and left the scene.
A few days later, Soteria contacted Mr F and told him theyd been notified of the accident by 
a claims management company acting on behalf of the other driver.  They said that, based 
on what theyd been told, it was most likely liability would be split 50/50.  But it was also 
possible that Mr F may be found to be at fault if the other side provided evidence to support 
their position that the collision had been his fault.  Mr F was, and remains, of the firm opinion 
that he wasnt at fault and that liability should be disputed.
Soteria responded to the other drivers insurer disputing liability for the collision and inviting 
them to send any evidence they had that Mr F was responsible.  A few weeks later, the other 
drivers insurer provided a statement from a witness, who they said was independent.  
Soteria told Mr F that the witnesss statement meant it was more likely that hed be found to 
be at fault.
Mr F didnt accept the witness was independent and asked Soteria for a copy of the 
statement so he could discuss with Soteria how to challenge it.  Soteria didnt provide this 
due to concerns about data protection.  They eventually provided a redacted copy some 
months after Mr F had asked for one.
After considering the witness statement, Mr F contacted Soteria, repeating he thought its 
contents should be challenged and asking to be consulted on next steps.  Soteria treated his 
correspondence as a complaint about the way theyd handled the claim.
In their complaint response, Soteria explained theyd reviewed the evidence and concluded 
the best possible outcome would be a 50/50 split of liability  but the other sides witness 
meant that, if the claim went to court, they didnt think the settlement would favour Mr F.  
They advised Mr F that the other side were threatening to issue proceedings and that, in that 
case, theyd have conduct of the claim and settle it on the best possible terms.  But theyd do 
that on a without prejudice basis  which would mean that Mr F could pursue his own 
action if he wanted to.
And, in response to Mr Fs complaint that their handling of the claim had led to an increase in 
his premium, Soteria explained that they record claims as fault claims until the other side 
admits liability.  So Mr Fs claims record would continue to show this as a fault claim until 
that happened.
But Soteria did accept theyd not contacted Mr F to update him as often as they could have.  
And they couldve provided a redacted copy of the witness statement quicker.  They said 
theyd send Mr F a cheque for £75 to compensate him for these shortcomings.
Mr F remained unhappy with the handling of the claim.  So he contacted our service.  Our 
investigator noted that, before the referral to us, but after Soteria responded to the 
complaint, the other side had issued court proceedings which would address, amongst other 
things, the issue of liability.  So we couldnt comment on the aspects of Mr Fs complaint 
which related to liability.
Mr F understood that, but wanted to pursue his complaints about the way Soteria had dealt 
with him.
Our investigator considered those complaints and concluded that Soterias payment of £75 
to Mr F was a reasonable resolution of the issues we could look at.  He agreed that their 
delay in sending Mr F the witnesss statement had caused him some trouble and upset.  But 
the impact of that was limited, because it didnt change either Mr Fs or Soterias view on 
how the claim should be dealt with.  And the other side was still pursuing the proceedings, 
notwithstanding Mr Fs view about the value of the statement.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive read that whos at fault in this claim is pivotal to Mr Fs 
concerns.  I understand hes adamant he wasnt at fault.  But I cant decide liability.  And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on it, as court proceedings are ongoing. 
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Fs insurance policy.  Under the heading Accidents and 
claims, theres a clause which says:
The insurer is entitled under this policy to;
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in 
the name of any other person insured by your policy.

Thats what Soteria have done in this case.
It seems that Mr F has been under the impression that he should be included in decisions 
about how the claim was dealt with.  But the policy doesnt give Mr F any right to be 
consulted.  So, while I understand his frustration about the way the claims been conducted, I 
cant say that Soteria have done anything wrong by drawing their own conclusions about the 
case without consulting him.
Id have expected Soteria to explain to Mr F why they came to the conclusions they did.  Im 
satisfied from what Ive considered that they did that.  And Ive seen that they took his views 
into consideration, because they challenged the witness statement relied on by the other 
side.  I cant say Soteria are responsible for the other side rejecting that challenge and the 
offer to settle on the basis of a 50/50 liability split - or for the fact theyve now issued 
proceedings.Mr Fs raised concerns about Soterias delay in providing him with a copy of the witness 
statement that he wasnt updated as frequently as he might have been.  Soteria have 
apologised for this and paid him £75 compensation.  
Ive thought about whether that amounts fair.  I can see Mr F believes that not sending him 
this earlier has led to the claim being delayed, and that, if hed seen it sooner, the credibility 
of the statement would have been successfully challenged.
The credibility of the statement is a matter for the court.  Soteria have accepted they 
couldve forwarded the statement to Mr F sooner.  But Ive seen that they described the 
contents to him when they received it.  And they wrote to the other side challenging its 
content several times before Mr F got a copy.  
Neither Mr Fs nor Soterias opinion about the statement changed after he received a copy.  
So Im satisfied the delay was an inconvenience to Mr F, rather than impacting on the way 
the claim was dealt with.  Similarly, I accept Mr F was frustrated that Soteria didnt update 
him on the claim.  But it didnt make any difference to its progress because Mr F wasnt 
involved in setting its direction.  I think £75 is a fair sum for Soteria to have paid him for that 
inconvenience.  But I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about Soteria Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman