DRN-3064911
The complaint
Miss C complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a curtailment claim she made on a 
travel insurance policy.
Miss Cs represented by Mr C.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss C booked a trip abroad. She also took out a Dragoman annual 
travel insurance policy to cover the trip. During the trip, Miss C planned to travel through 
South America. She travelled abroad as planned on 20 February 2020 and was due to return 
to the UK on 25 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 16 March 2020, the government of one of the countries Miss C was travelling 
to closed its borders. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad.
So the organiser of Miss Cs trip decided to curtail it, meaning that Miss C needed to arrange 
an earlier return to the UK. These arrangements included both domestic and international 
flights, together with a hotel stay. She booked a flight back to the UK with an airline which 
was due to depart on 19 March 2020, but this was subsequently cancelled. She was able to 
arrange a further flight with a different airline and returned to the UK. Miss C made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cutting short her trip.  The tour 
organiser later agreed to refund Miss C for the lost eight days of her pre-booked trip.
AWP turned down Miss Cs claim. It said the policy terms and conditions didnt cover 
changes to FCDO advice or the closure of a countrys borders.
Miss C was unhappy with AWPs decision and so Mr C asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator accepted that the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover curtailment 
due to a change in FCDO advice. But she noted that the policy specifically excluded any 
cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. This meant Miss C wouldnt 
have been covered if she curtailed and she wouldnt be covered if she continued to travel. 
The investigator didnt think the policy terms made the combined effect of these terms clear. 
And she considered that if Miss C had been aware that she wouldnt be covered if FCDO 
guidance changed before she travelled, she wouldve been unlikely to take out the policy.
She explained that therefore, she felt it would be fair for AWP to treat the claim as covered 
under the curtailment section of the policy. However, she noted that the curtailment section 
of the policy only covered a policyholders pre-paid travel and accommodation expenses. As 
Miss C was claiming for the additional expenses she incurred in returning early to the UK, 
the investigator didnt think there was anything further for AWP to pay. So she didnt 
recommend that it should do anything more.
Mr C disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He said he and Miss C were pleased 
that the investigator had found that AWP should treat the claim as covered under the 
curtailment section of the policy, due to the fact that the lack of cover for changes to FCDO 
advice hadnt been highlighted. He told us that the tour operator felt it didnt make any sense 
if implicit curtailment cover didnt extend to losses that could be expected to be associated 
with curtailment  such as early flights home. He didnt feel that the policy paperwork made it 
clear that such costs wouldnt be covered. And he considered that failure to highlight this 
meant that AWP wasnt meeting the regulators rules. He said he considered that if I accept 
that Miss Cs claim was covered by the curtailment section of the policy, all of Miss Cs 
resulting costs should be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AWP to turn down Miss Cs claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss Cs policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether AWP treated 
Miss C fairly. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Miss Cs policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with AWP. The Cancellation or curtailment section of the policy provides the 
following cover:
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected journey before commencement or 
curtail it before completion as a result of:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy legislation, 
cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security staff, summoning to 
jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your travelling companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or 
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the 
presence of the person concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of an 
emergency service requires your presence.
The insurer will pay:
2 For curtailment after initial departure; or from the date you were hospitalised as an in-
patient;a A pro-rata proportion of non-refundable unused inclusive tour costs, or
b Alternatively the original value of non- refundable unused air tickets up to the sum 
insured for any of the above reasons. (Bold is my emphasis).
Miss Cs contract also sets out a list of general exclusions. One of these says that AWP 
wont cover claims if a policyholder travels against FCDO advice. In this case, theres no 
dispute that Miss Cs trip had to be cut short both because the FCDO had advised against all 
but essential travel and because of the closure of borders. This isnt something listed as an 
insured event AWP covers for curtailment. 
So I accept that there seems to be no cover if Miss C chose to cancel her trip, but potentially 
no cover at all under the policy if she continued with her journey. Like the investigator, Im 
not persuaded the exclusion was clearly highlighted to Miss C. And I dont think the policy 
documents were clear enough to signpost her to this important information about the way the 
policy worked. So in some cases, Id likely decide that this had led to a significant imbalance 
between the rights of a consumer and AWP under the contract and uphold a complaint. 
However, on the facts of this particular case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
direct AWP to pay the costs which Miss C is claiming. Ill explore this further.
As Ive set out above, the curtailment cover provided by the policy says that AWP will pay a 
pro-rata amount of non-refundable unused tour costs, or the original value of non-refundable 
unused air tickets. In this case, I understand that Miss C has received a refund for her 
original return flight from the travel provider. And that the tour operator has agreed to refund 
a pro-rata amount for the lost days of Miss Cs planned trip. So I find that based on the 
information AWP was given at the point the claim was made, there are no outstanding, 
original unused flight costs or tour costs for AWP to consider. 
The policy doesnt cover additional expenses a policyholder incurs if they have to return to 
the UK early. This means that the additional flights Miss C bought and used after learning 
that her trip would be cut short simply arent covered by the terms of her contract with AWP. 
I appreciate Mr C feels that this wasnt made sufficiently clear to Miss C. But Ive looked 
closely at the Insurance Product Information Document which was provided to Miss C. This 
sets out at a glance details about the policy cover. Page 1 of the document sets out a list of 
What is Insured. This list includes:
Cancelling/cutting short your journey  Up to £5,000 in total for lost pre-paid travel and 
accommodation costs.
I think then that the totality of the policy documentation makes it clear that AWP only covers 
pre-paid lost curtailment costs. Id also add that many insurers provide similar curtailment 
cover. Based on the claim that was presented to AWP, while I sympathise with Miss Cs 
position, because I appreciate shes been left significantly out of pocket, I think it was fair for 
AWP to turn down her claim.
Mr C has referred to the cost of an additional return flight Miss C booked on 15 March 2020, 
which was unused due to the bringing forward of her return to the UK. He said he didnt 
initially include this cost in Miss Cs claim, but that the airline has refused to refund the cost. 
It seems then that AWP hasnt yet had the chance to consider whether this cost is covered. 
Its open to Mr C to submit evidence about this part of the claim to AWP for it to consider. If 
hes unhappy with AWPs decision, hell need to make a complaint to it about that issue 
alone. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman