DRN-3618108
The complaint
Mr M complains that Warwick Financial Solutions Limited charged him unfair fees for its 
ongoing advice about his personal pensions. 
What happened
In 2005, Warwick started to advise Mr M about his pension fund, which Ill refer to as 
pension fund 1. Warwick advised Mr M to move pension fund 1 to another provider. It 
charged 3% initial commission and monthly commission of 0.5% of the value of Mr Ms 
fund.   
In 2008, Warwick told Mr M it was time for a financial review  Warwicks notes suggest a 
review was carried out in November 2008. In March 2010, Warwick again told Mr M it was 
time for a review. Its records suggest another review may have happened at this time and in 
August 2011, Mr M had a further financial review about his pension. 
Warwick held another client review with Mr M in March 2014. Warwicks note of the review 
says that Mr M did not have much time to review his finances, and contact was limited to 
transacting a £10,000 contribution to pension fund 1. Warwick has provided its client 
agreement, signed by Mr M on 3 April 2014. It confirms a charge of 0.5% per annum of the 
funds held for pension fund 1. Warwicks Suitability report also says For this particular 
single premium, no fees have been levied on the existing [pension fund 1], we receive 0.5% 
of the fund value per annum from the provider. However, after the payment was submitted, 
the provider confirmed that due to pension fund 1 being on an older platform, it was unable 
to accept the single premium payment. So, a further plan, pension fund 2 was set up for the 
single premium.  Pension funds 1 and 2 were both held with the same provider.
In February 2015, Warwick recommended that Mr M kept his pension funds 1 and 2 
separate and contribute £15,000 to pension fund 2. At this time, Mr M signed another client 
agreement. The agreement, signed by Mr M, set out he would be charged 0.5% of his funds 
in his pension fund 1 and 1% of his funds held in pension fund 2. The form said Mr M would 
be provided with reviews and advice, with the next review due in February 2016. Warwick 
has also provided a copy of the application to top up pension fund 2, which is also signed by 
Mr M. It shows a 1% initial fee of the top up and 1% servicing fee on all funds in pension 
fund 2. Warwick also provided a copy of its letter to Mr M, dated 26 February 2015, which 
also says he instructed the provider of his pension funds to pay Warwick an initial 1% of his 
top up contribution and a 1% annual servicing fee. 
In 2016, 2017 and 2018, Warwick invited Mr M for financial reviews, but he didnt get accept 
the invitations. In March 2019, Mr M entered into a new client agreement with Warwick. Mr M 
had contacted Warwick as hed received a letter from the provider of his two pension funds, 
saying his funds had fallen in value. So, Mr M said he would like Warwick to review the 
situation.  Following the review, one of Warwicks actions was to consolidate and transfer 
Mr Ms two pension funds into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another 
provider for improved asset allocation, charges, risk and performance. Warwicks notes of 
the meeting say it discussed our service and an ongoing fee of 0.7% based on the value of 
your investments with annual reviews. In its recommendation letter, dated 30 May 2019, 
Warwick said:  
We believe it is important to review your investment strategy at regular intervals to 
ensure it continues to meet your aims and objectives. Full details of the service we 
provide are contained within the Service Proposition and Engagement provided to 
you. The cost of this service was explained in the same document. Based on your 
total pension holdings of £86,062, this would equate to £602.43 per annum but will 
fluctuate in line with the value of the pension. This charge will be deducted from the 
pension as a consequence you will lose the compounding effect this would have had, 
if charges were paid directly.
The SIPP provider also produced an illustration which estimated, based on Mr Ms 
contribution of £86,052 to his SIPP on 30 May 2019, the ongoing adviser charge paid to 
Warwick could be £558 in the first year, and £642 in the fifth year of its illustration. The 
remuneration agreement and client declaration signed by Mr M on 25 March 2019 confirmed 
the 0.7% annual fee. Warwick told Mr M he would next be due a review in March 2020. 
In April 2020, Warwick invited Mr M to a further financial review  but Mr M didnt want one. 
Warwick then wrote to Mr M to recommend, based on the information it held, Mr M retain his 
funds as they were currently held. It strongly recommended Mr M arrange another financial 
review.
In February 2021, Warwick invited Mr M for another review  again, he didnt want a review, 
but Warwicks notes say Mr M feels the pension has done badly. And in July 2021, 
Warwicks adviser called Mr M to try to arrange a financial review. Warwicks note of the call 
says Mr M expressed dissatisfaction with Warwicks service and lack of contact for the past 
20 years. Mr M complained to Warwick about its service provided, asked for a refund of the 
fees Warwick had charged and requested future fees be stopped. In its final response of 
5 August 2021, Warwick said it received an adviser fee of around £700 a year through 
monthly deductions from Mr Ms pension fund. It said its fees were communicated clearly to 
Mr M and provided good value for its service. But Warwick offered Mr M £300 as a gesture 
of goodwill, and confirmed it was no longer charging Mr M an ongoing adviser fee. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. Mr M said he wasnt 
aware he could have chosen not to pay an ongoing adviser fee and not receive annual 
reviews  he became aware the fee was optional in 2021, he chose to cancel it.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. Our Investigator said 
Mr M was aware of the charges he was paying Warwick and had negotiated a reduction in 
his fees from 2019, as an example. Our Investigator was satisfied the fees charged were 
transparent and went on to consider whether they were charged fairly and reasonably. Our 
Investigator thought Warwick had made Mr M aware he was entitled to reviews and had 
contacted him each year  and on some years, Mr M had gone ahead with those reviews. 
Our Investigator thought Warwick was entitled to apply the charges it did. The Investigator 
recommended Mr M accept Warwicks offer of £300 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M 
disagreed with our Investigators opinion, reiterating he wasnt aware he could pay less, or 
nothing, to Warwick. So, this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Warwick had different fee agreements over the years, evidenced by different client 
agreements. Ive considered the fees charged against these agreements, and Ill deal with 
each in turn.2005 - 2 April 2014
As a result of the advice Mr M was given to set up pension fund 1, Warwick received an 
initial 3% commission and renewal commission of 0.5% of his pension fund value 1. The 
commission was detailed in the Personal Pension Key Features document. Warwicks 
records indicate it sent a Financial Planning report to Mr M on 22 March 2006, which said 
hed been provided with the Key Facts Document, an Illustration with commission 
disclosure and information on any fees we have agreed. Warwick has provided a copy of 
its generic client agreement from 2005  but this is not signed by Mr M. The client 
agreement sets out it will be paid for setting up the pension plan by ongoing commission of 
0.5%, and the agreement should be read in conjunction with the Key Features document. 
On balance, I think its likely Warwick provided Mr M with copies of its client agreement and 
his pension plans Key Features document, which listed the initial and renewal commission. 
The commission was its fee for setting up the pension plan. I cant see that it obliged 
Warwick to provide Mr M with ongoing advice, even though it did offer him reviews and Mr M 
accepted these some years. Mr M agreed to pay this commission regardless of whether he 
accepted Warwicks periodic offers to review his finances. 
I think its important to explain that often renewal commission was paid by a product provider 
to a financial advisor on an ongoing basis. Whilst often funded by a deduction from the value 
of the pension investments as part of the administrative charges, having no advisor, or no 
renewal commission being paid, wouldnt reduce the level of those charges  the same level 
of deductions would be made, and simply retained by the product provider. This changed 
following what was known as the Retail Distribution Review in 2012. After this it was no 
longer allowed for renewal (or trail) commission to be paid from new investments  but 
existing arrangements were allowed to continue. The regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, said at that time that it hoped this would help ensure more transparency on the 
charges consumers paid to, and the services they received from, their financial advisors. So, 
Warwick was able to continue receiving renewal commission on pension fund 1, as it was 
set up before the Retail Distribution Review came into effect. 
3 April 2014  26 February 2015
From this point, Mr M had two pension plans  pension plan 1 had 0.5% renewal 
commission as Ive outlined above. As Ive said above, under the Retail Distribution Review, 
Warwick was allowed to continue to receive this commission for its initial work setting up this 
plan. I think Warwicks client agreement, signed by Mr M on 3 April 2014, confirmed Mr M 
was aware of the monthly fee of 0.5% of pension fund 1. Warwick also sent Mr M a suitability 
report, which said the choices for Warwicks renumeration were discussed with Mr M and an 
annual fee of 0.5% of Mr Ms fund value was agreed. Overall, I think Warwick was entitled to 
continue to receive its annual renewal commission on pension fund 1. And as Ive said 
above, I dont think the commission obliged Warwick to provide ongoing advice in relation to 
this pension plan. The application for pension fund 2 indicates there was no initial or ongoing 
advice fee for Warwicks work. Warwick provided limited advice and Warwicks meeting 
notes seem to confirm it would receive no fees for the work setting up pension fund 2. 
27 February 2015  24 March 2019
On 27 February 2015, Mr M signed an updated client agreement saying he would pay 0.5% 
annual charge on his pension fund 1. As Ive said above, I think Warwick was entitled to 
continue receiving this commission and it didnt oblige it to offer Mr M ongoing advice in 
relation to pension fund 1.The application to make the top up payment into pension fund 2 was signed by Mr M. This 
set out he agreed to pay an initial 1% fee on his top up contribution, and a 1% annual 
servicing charge. Warwick also provided a copy of its letter to Mr M, dated 
26 February 2015, which also says he instructed the provider of his pension funds to pay 
Warwick an initial 1% of his top up contribution and a 1% annual servicing fee. Ive seen 
nothing to make me think Mr M was unhappy, or Warwick was unclear, about the 1% initial 
fee, so I see no reason for this to be refunded to Mr M. As Mr M has complained about the 
ongoing fee, Ill consider this in more detail.
On the application form Mr M signed, there is an option for a servicing fee to be added, or for 
the plan to be set up without an annual servicing fee. I think the application form makes it 
clear the servicing fee was optional. In this case, the box to add in a servicing fee was 
ticked, and its written that a 1% fee will be applied to all funds held in pension fund 2. The 
option to add in the servicing fee or not suggests to me there was a discussion around the 
servicing fee and Mr M was made aware it was optional, and by signing this form, I think he 
agreed to it. Theres nothing in the application form that sets out Warwick is obliged to offer 
ongoing advice in relation to pension plan 2. So, I think its arguable that Warwick was 
entitled to charge the 1% servicing fee without any obligation to offer Mr M ongoing advice 
about pension fund 2. But I do note the client agreement set out Warwicks service level 
offered for pension fund 2 included advice and recommendation, contract implementation 
and annual review at our premises. I think the client agreement could infer Warwick offered 
an ongoing service in return for its 1% ongoing fee. But in any event, I think Warwick did 
offer to provide the service levels set out in the client agreement by offering Mr M financial 
reviews in 2016, 2017, 2018. The fact that Mr M chose not to avail himself of these services 
doesnt mean Warwick is obliged to refund the 1% ongoing fee he opted to pay. 
25 March 2019-2021
On 25 March 2019, Warwick renegotiated its fees with Mr M, and it was agreed he would be 
charged annually 0.7% of his fund value after advising him to transfer his personal pensions 
into a SIPP. I note Mr M was unhappy with how his investments performed, but he hasnt 
complained about whether the advice he received to transfer his funds into a SIPP was 
suitable for him, so Im not able to comment on this further as part of this complaint. This 
means Ive not considered whether Warwick should refund any fees it charged for the setup 
of the SIPP  Ive considered its ongoing adviser fee applied from 2019.
In its client agreement, Warwick said it would provide ongoing advice to Mr M. The top of the 
Remuneration Agreement & Client Declaration Mr M signed gives four options in the 
following format:
 Premier Plus  Premier  Advice Upon Request  Keep in Touch
On Mr Ms form, the Premier Plus box was ticked. I think these four options made it 
sufficiently clear Mr M didnt have to commit to receiving ongoing advice  I think the form 
made it clear there was an option for advice upon request. But Mr M opted for the highest 
level of service listed above. Further, the form goes on to list the 0.7% advice charge. The 
next section of the form says:
Services to be provided: Financial Planning Leading to Appropriate Financial Services 
Product Solutions.
*Please Note: Delete if not applicable *
Next review date: [handwritten] MARCH 2020 ANNUALAgain, I think this makes it sufficiently clear Mr M had agreed to pay a 0.7% ongoing advice 
fee in return for financial planning services. I think the above section also suggests Mr M 
was made aware he would be offered an (annual) review in March 2020. Further, I think 
Warwicks notes of the meeting indicate there was a discussion around the ongoing advice 
charge to be applied to Mr Ms pension plans. I also think Warwicks recommendation letter, 
quoted above, made it clear Warwick would apply an ongoing advice charge and gave a 
clear indication of its likely cost. So overall, I think Warwick was quite clear about the level of 
service it would offer and the cost of this ongoing advice from 25 March 2019.
In September 2019, Warwick wrote to Mr M saying that as he did not wish to undertake his 
review, it had reviewed his investments based on the information it had available. I think this 
was in line with its agreement set out above. In April 2020, Warwick reminded Mr M he was 
due a financial review  but Mr M said he didnt want one. This time, Warwick didnt review 
Mr Ms finances based on the information it had and it doesnt appear it offered any 
meaningful advice. But as Ive explained above, I think Warwick was sufficiently clear in its 
2019 client agreement about the level of service and charges Mr M agreed to pay for. 
In May 2021, Warwick invited Mr M for a financial review. Mr M didnt want a review, and he 
made his complaint to Warwick about the fees it charged him. As a result, Warwick stopped 
charging Mr M an ongoing advice fee and he wont receive any further financial advice from 
Warwick unless he requests it, and Warwick agrees to provide advice. I think this was 
reasonable, and I think its offer was in line with the client agreement Mr M signed in 2019, 
which shows he could have opted to receive advice only upon request. I dont think Warwick 
is obliged to refund any ongoing advice charges applied from 25 March 2019 until it removed 
this charge in 2021. However, I note Warwick offered to refund £300 of charges as a gesture 
of goodwill. For the reasons explained above, Ive not recommended Warwick refund any of 
its charges, so I think its offer to refund £300 as a gesture of goodwill is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I have not upheld this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman