DRN-3196832
The complaint
Mr C complains about the communication from Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd 
regarding a debt he owed.
What happened
Mr C explains he had a debt with a lender, who Ill call O, and put in an irresponsible lending 
complaint. He says O told him theyd ask Lantern to stop contacting him regarding the debt 
while they investigated his complaint.
The complaint was made to O on 26 May 2021. So, Mr C was concerned he continued 
receiving correspondence from Lantern  including an email on 18 June 2021 which said 
Lantern had spoken to O who said hed not raised a complaint.
Mr C called Lantern to find out what was going on and was told theyd not heard from O 
which he found confusing. After several calls from Mr C to Lantern and O, he said O had 
actually contacted Lantern, and he said their email on 18 June 2021 saying they hadnt 
heard from O was a mistake.
Mr C complained to Lantern about this, saying hed spent two hours on the phone sorting 
this out when it was between them. He wanted compensation for the distress and upset 
caused.
Lantern said the email sent 18 June 2021 was generated incorrectly by them. They said 
Mr Cs debt with O was consolidated under another debt which was marked as statute 
barred. They said after completing the actions on the other account, they incorrectly returned 
Os account as in collections rather than putting it back on hold while they waited for O to get 
in touch. Lantern added O didnt get in touch with them until 18 June 2021, so before then 
they didnt do anything wrong as they werent aware hed raised a complaint with O. They 
partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and said sorry for whatd happened.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked us to look into things, saying Lantern hadnt addressed all of 
his issues. He mentioned another debt of his was marked as statute barred on 17 June 
2021, but when an email was sent on 19 June 2021 it included this debt.
Lantern provided us with their file, and said theyd also reduced Mr Cs debt by £194.27 as 
an apology for their handling of this complaint and another hed made.
One of our Investigators looked into things and felt Lanterns apology for the mistake was 
fair. He also passed on what Lantern said about the offer.
Mr C didnt agree the offer was fair and said the reduction in balance was for another 
complaint, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute Lantern made a mistake, but I need to set out the scope of that mistake, 
and then whether I think the apology theyve made is sufficient. 
The initial email that started Mr Cs complaint was sent by Lantern on 18 June 2021. This 
email said theyd spoken to O, who said no complaint had been raised. As a consequence of 
this, Mr C ended up calling Lantern and O trying to sort out whatd happened  as he had 
raised a complaint with O on 26 May 2021.
But actually, it seems the first email sent by O to Lantern was dated 18 June 2021 at 
3.55pm. So, when Mr C was calling Lantern it seems this was before the email had been 
sent  meaning Lantern hadnt heard from O or spoken to them and I suspect Mr C making 
these calls prompted that first email from O.
So, Lantern sent an email in error saying Mr C hadnt raised a dispute with O, when he 
actually had and theyd not checked. I can see this resulted in inconvenience for Mr C in 
having to make two hours worth of phone calls. But I also think those calls identified O hadnt 
contacted Lantern at this time  so potentially also avoided Lantern getting in touch to chase 
the debt which he wasnt expecting.
With that in mind, I think the apology Lantern have offered is fair.
In addition, I wanted to understand what Lantern had said about the reason for reducing the 
balance. Ive listened to the call where Lantern say theyre reducing the balance by £194.27. 
They say this is to reflect the experience Mr C has had with them.
Mr C does mention hes spent hours going back and forth trying to get the matter resolved. 
Its perhaps not as clear as it could be from Lanterns perspective  where they could have 
said they were applying this reduction in part because of this specific complaint  but Mr C 
has mentioned this complaint on that call. So it seems like Mr C does think this call where 
the reduction is first mentioned does relate to the same issues Ive considered in this 
complaint.
Ive heard on this call Mr C saying this reduction doesnt benefit him, and he wants to be 
paid compensation. But, the reduction of the debt does benefit him, in that he now owes less 
to Lantern to be repaid. This is compensation, albeit not paid directly to him.
Overall then I remain of the opinion the apology Lantern have offered is fair  and it seems 
at least part of the reduction in Mr Cs debt is due to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman