DRN-3436543
The complaint
Miss L complains that when she called BW Legal Services Limited (BW Legal), its agent was 
aggressive and intimidating to her on the phone.
What happened
Miss L had an outstanding debt with a business. That business appointed BW Legal to 
collect the debt on its behalf. It arranged a repayment plan with Miss L, but due to losing her 
job Miss L later broke the plan. So, BW Legal tried to contact her about it. 
BW legal called Miss L several times but she didnt answer, as, she says, she believed the 
number was related to fraud. It also wrote to her and sent her text messages.
When she realised the number that had been calling her was BW Legal, she called it back. 
During this call she informed it, the reason she had broken the payment plan was she had 
not been paid by her previous employer and had lost her job. She went on to say she would 
be starting a new job the following week and was just waiting for confirmation of her hours 
and, when her pay day would be. BW legal said the best thing it could do was place a 30-
day hold on the account until she knew the details of her pay day. Miss L agreed to call back 
when she had them.
Miss L then complained to BW Legal saying the agent had yelled at her and was aggressive 
in the call and she had felt intimidated by this. BW Legal didnt uphold her complaint. So, she 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt think this was a case that should be upheld. In summary he said he 
had listened to the call recording, and while he could understand why Miss L might have felt 
uncomfortable discussing her personal finances, he felt the agent was professional 
throughout the call, and that he did not raise his voice or act aggressively.
Miss L disagreed and so our investigator provided her with a copy of the call to listen to. She 
responded saying:
she still didnt feel the agents tone was appropriate and she didnt like that he had 
asked her about why she hadnt applied for universal credit when she was 
unemployed. 
She hadnt given consent for BW Legal to record the call 
The call had caused her to have a panic attack when it ended.
Our investigator addressed Miss Ls points but said they didnt change things for him. Miss L 
has now asked for an Ombudsmans decision and so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Miss L that I wont be upholding her complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator, Ill explain.
Before I do, I would like to say I have the greatest sympathy for the circumstances Miss L 
found herself in, having worked and not been paid. And I understand this mustve been a 
very stressful time for her.
I have listened to the call recording that Miss Ls complaint relates to.
Miss L said she didnt give consent fir BW Legal to record her calls, but I cant see this is an 
issue that she has raised with it and so it hasnt had a chance to deal with this point. As such 
I dont think its appropriate for me to comment on it in this decision.
In the call the agent is polite throughout, he doesnt raise his voice at all, and hes 
understanding of Miss Ls situation. Although he does ask some personal financial 
questions, they are in line with what Id expect, given the circumstances. When Miss L is 
asked about why she didnt apply for Universal Credit, she explains that she isnt eligible 
because her partner earns too much money. At this point the agent asked her how she is 
coping with her necessity bills such as rent etc, Miss L explains her partner has lent her 
some money. The agent then asks if she would like any financial assistance and offers to put 
Miss L in touch with some debt charities that may be able to help her. She turns this down as 
she says they dont do anything, and she will be able to pay again from next month. Based 
on this I dont agree the agent was aggressive or intimidating in this call, and as Ive already 
said he didnt raise his voice. 
Ive taken into account Miss L initiated this call, so Ive assumed she chose a time that was 
relatively good for her to have that conversation. And although I dont dispute how stressful 
and upsetting Miss L found the call or how she felt after the call ended. I think this is more 
likely to be about the subject matter of the call rather than the way the agent acted on the 
call.
My role here is to see if a business has done something wrong and, if it has, instruct it to put 
things right. And based on everything Ive seen I cant say BW Legal has done anything 
wrong here.
I know Miss L will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with BW Legal  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman