DRN-2291708
The complaint
Mr O complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited havent applied direct debit 
payments to his account.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
VWFS. The first two monthly payments were taken from Mr Os personal bank account. Mr 
O tried to change his bank account details for the direct debit payment but wasnt successful.
Mr O received arrears letters relating to his August and September 2019 payments. He 
provided VWFS with screenshots of the payments leaving his bank account and says he 
was promised a call back about the arrears letters, but this didnt happen.
Mr O raised a complaint with VWFS about the missing payments. VWFS said it had no 
record of receiving payments in August and September 2019 and advised Mr O to contact 
his bank. It said his agreement would remain in arrears for the two months payments.
Mr O was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that the payments had been received by VWFS.
Mr O didnt agree. He said he was unhappy with the way VWFS had handled his complaint 
about the missing payments and that it still hadnt provided an explanation of where the 
payments had gone. He said hed spoken to his bank who had confirmed that the funds had 
left his account and hadnt been returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The missing payments relate to payments due in August and September 2019. Ive looked at 
the direct debit mandate and I can see that the details match those for Mr Os personal 
account. So Im satisfied that the missing payments arent due to an error in how the direct 
debit mandate was completed or set up.
Ive also looked at the screenshot of Mr Os persona account. This shows a payment of £342 
leaving the account on 3 September 2019. Its not clear from the statement whether the 
payment cleared, or whether it was subsequently returned, because Mr O hasnt provided  
full statement, only a screenshot of part of it. This service asked Mr  to provide a full copy of 
his statement and Mr O explained that because he had a paperless service he would need 
to request this from his bank. I cant see that a complete statement has ever been provided.
Ive also looked at the statements of account for the finance agreement with VWFS. I can 
see that the direct debit payments were taken on 3 August 2019 and 3 September 2019. 
These payment were subsequently rejected. I cant tell the reasons for the rejection from the 
statements themselves, but I am able to say that direct debit payments are generally 
rejected if there arent sufficient funds in the payees bank account. Im unable to say whether 
this is the case here, because of the limited information shown on Mr Os bank statement 
screenshot.
VWFS has said that it conducted a thorough search for the two missing payments. It has 
provided screenshots of its ledgers from around the time of the payments. I cant see any 
entries matching the payments Mr O made. So Im unable to say that the payments reached 
VWFS.
Mr O has said that his bank has told him that the payments left his account and werent 
returned. I appreciate that Mr O feels that the evidence hes provided showing the payments 
leaving his account is sufficient. However, I dont think it is. And whilst I dont doubt what Mr 
O says about the response from his bank, Im satisfied that the payments didnt reach 
VWFS. So its likely that the payments were rejected and went somewhere else, or have got 
lost in the banking system. In either scenario, its up to Mr Os bank to trace these payments. 
If Mr Os bank has said that it has done as much as it can (as Mr O has told this service), 
then it may be that Mr O should raise this formally with his bank because I think it can do 
more to trace the missing payments.
I appreciate that Mr O is unhappy about the way VWFs handled his complaint. And I 
understand his concerns that the missing payments have caused him to accrue arrears on 
his account which has impacted his credit file. In relation to the handling of the complaint, 
VWFS had 8 weeks to provide a final response. It didnt do this, which I understand was 
frustrating for Mr O, but Im unable to say that hes been prejudiced because he was able to 
bring his complaint to this service anyway.
In relation to Mr Os credit file, Im unable to say VWFS has acted unfairly here, because the 
available information shows that it hasnt received the two payments. So it hasnt made an 
error in reporting these payments as late payments.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont be asking VWFS to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman