DRN-3159991
The complaint
Mr R complains about what happened when he applied for a current account with
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin). He said that Virgin misrepresented
what it could offer him, and he gave out private information as a result.
What happened
Mr R applied for a Virgin current account, using a switching offer. Mr R said he planned to
switch an account with a £5,000 overdraft limit so he asked Virgin for the same lending.
Mr R said Virgin told him it couldnt identify him, even though he already has an account with
it. It wanted paper ID. And it said it wanted proof of his income to approve overdraft lending
to him. Mr R said that Virgin told him that if he didn't provide these proofs, the application
would expire automatically.
Mr R said he wasnt given an option to proceed without income verification until after hed
supplied this information.
Mr R said he then got a confirmation that the overdraft he applied for had been approved 
but when he read the letter, hed only been approved for a £2,500 overdraft limit. Mr R told
us that when he queried this, Virgin said it had provisionally approved him for a £2,500
overdraft limit. So he was never supplying payslips for the £5,000 overdraft he wanted.
Mr R said that if Virgin had been honest upfront, he wouldn't have supplied payslips for the
amount of overdraft offered, he would have proceeded with just ID verification and switched
a different account without an overdraft as Virgin already completed a credit check.
Mr R said that he wanted compensation, and the removal of credit searches made by Virgin.
Virgin said that it didnt think it had made a mistake by asking Mr R for ID. It said it does this
to protect its existing customers, and keep their accounts safe. And it can ask for further
information for overdraft lending. It looked at a number of factors before it decided on an
amount of overdraft lending. It didnt think it had made a mistake by offering Mr R a lower
amount, although it appreciated that this wasnt what hed applied for.
Virgin said that Mr Rs application had expired, but it wouldnt remove the searches on his
credit file, because it must report accurately what has been applied for.
Virgin did think it had made a mistake by requesting Mr Rs proof of income twice. It said it
had provided feedback about that to the relevant department.
Mr R wanted to stress that hed requested information from Virgin about his application, and
he could see Virgin had decided only to lend him £2,500 through an overdraft, before he
provided proof of his income. So Mr R said Virgin had misled him. Mr R repeated that if
Virgin had told him this, he wouldnt have provided his payslips. But he said again that he
wasnt given an option to proceed without an overdraft until later in the process.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin had clarified that
it requires proof of identity irrespective of whether other accounts are already held. Our
investigator said this is on Virgins website. He thought this was a reasonable request. And, 
whilst not every lender asks for proof of income for an overdraft, its not for our service to say 
if they should or shouldnt. If they are complying with the rules around responsible lending  
then its up to each business what they do or dont request.
Our investigator said that Virgin did an affordability assessment to see what it would be
happy to lend Mr R, through an overdraft. Virgin has told us its systems suggested £2,500,
subject to proof of income. Virgin said it doesnt tell customers what the pre-approved
amount is, because this can change after it receives information on an applicants income.
Our investigator understood Mr R felt he was misled and his privacy was invaded, but our 
investigator thought Virgin was ensuring it was being a responsible lender by asking for 
proof of income. And it didnt want to mis-lead Mr R by confirming an overdraft amount that 
was still subject to approval.
Our investigator said Mr R was asked for proof of income again, a couple of days after Virgin
confirmed hed provided this. Our investigator said it looked like this was by accident.
Our investigator said that Mr R had said hed been told that if he didnt send in payslips his
application would be cancelled. Our investigator said he hadnt been able to hear this on a
call, he hadnt been provided with it, but he said that he didnt think this call would have an
impact on Virgins lending decision or this complaint.
Our investigator said he wouldnt ask Virgin to do any more.
Mr R said that there were factual inaccuracies in what our investigator had said, and he said
he hadnt had enough time to respond. Our service extended the time for Mr R to reply, but
no further comment has been received from Mr R.
Because Mr R didnt agree with our investigator, the case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr R said that there was no option to go ahead without an overdraft when he applied 
for this account. Virgin has said it cant recreate his application for us now. But I can 
see that Virgins current online application process does ask whether the applicant 
would like an overdraft or not. So I think its likely that Virgin would also have asked 
this when Mr R applied. And Mr R says he told Virgin he wanted to borrow £5,000. If 
there had been no other option to proceed without asking for an overdraft, then Mr R 
may have been able to enter a nil amount here.
Considering all of the above, I dont think its likely that Mr R was never given the 
option to apply for this account without an agreed overdraft. And because I think its 
most likely that Mr R chose to apply with an overdraft, I dont think that Virgin has to 
remove now any credit searches that it has recorded on Mr Rs file.
When Mr R applied he was asked for further information, for ID and to verify his 
income. I know that Mr R already had an account with Virgin, but Virgin has said it 
asked for ID to check that Mr R was the account holder it already knew. I think thats 
a reasonable step for Virgin to take.Mr R was also asked for payslips to prove his income, and not told that Virgin had 
only preapproved him for a smaller overdraft. Virgin has explained that it doesnt tell 
applicants how much lending they have been pre-approved for, because it does 
sometimes have to change this once it receives proof of income. I know that this 
wasnt the case for Mr R, theres been no suggestion at all that he hadnt correctly 
reported his income. But because Virgin has told us this does happen in other cases, 
I think that the general approach Virgin is taking is reasonable.
Mr R also said that once he had applied, he wasnt given an option to then withdraw 
his application for an overdraft, and proceed without giving his payslip details. I 
understand that Mr R considers this is private information, and he would not have 
shared it if hed realised that Virgin wasnt likely to give him the overdraft he wanted.
I dont know for sure if Virgin told Mr R that he couldnt withdraw an application for an 
overdraft part way through, and carry on with just the application for the account. But 
because I think that its most likely that Mr R was given the option initially to apply 
without an overdraft, and because what Virgin says suggests that sometimes people 
do inflate their incomes on these applications (although I want to stress that theres 
no suggestion at all that Mr R did so) I dont think it would be unreasonable if Virgin 
did say that it wouldnt let someone withdraw the lending application, and carry on 
with the rest of their application, as a response to a request to prove income.
I do understand Mr R has found this application a frustrating process, so I realise he 
will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted. Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman