DRN-3128261
The complaint
Mr U complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr U had a sports car first registered in 2009. For the year from 30 March 2020, he had the 
car insured with Admiral. He was the policyholder and there was no other named driver.
A third party was involved in an incident on 25 March 2021.
Admiral renewed Mr Us policy from 30 March 2021.
On 12 April 2021 Admiral received a claim from the third party who alleged that Mr Us 
vehicle, with a female driver, had been involved in the incident on 25 March.
Admiral contacted Mr U and he denied any involvement in the reported incident. Admiral 
asked him to send photographs of his vehicle and evidence of its whereabouts on 25 March. 
Admiral also sent Mr U an email about a change to his policy .
Mr U complained to Admiral that it shouldve done more investigation before contacting him, 
causing him stress and wasted time. 
By a final response dated 19 April 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. It said that the 
third partys solicitor had incorrectly given the registration of Mr Us vehicle instead of a 
similar registration for the vehicle of the female driver (who Admiral also insured). Admiral 
said the solicitor had incorrectly given the location of the incident as a village instead of a 
similar-sounding suburb. 
Mr U brought his complaint to us straight away.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Admiral had made an error. 
Mr U disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The third partys solicitor was aware of the make and model of vehicle involved in the 
incident, the drivers gender, the time it took place and the area it took place. You 
would expect drivers to exchange details after an accident as this is a statutory 
requirement - not just registration numbers.
The vehicle in the incident was different to his, the driver was a different gender and 
the incident took place outside of his area during lockdown. 
The female driver involved in the incident was also insured by Admiral, checks were 
only made when he escalated the issue with Admiral, and this should have been a 
matter of course.
It was very unlikely that someone had stolen his vehicle or that he had lent it to 
anyone.
He asks why did Admiral not check and need to send multiple correspondence all 
with incorrect information in a short period advising that he had been involved in an 
incident, insisting he provide evidence of his movements on the day of the incident, 
then change the area. Admiral insisted he provide photographs then advised his 
premiums were going to increase, and should he not co-operate there would be 
penalties. There is no way he accepts being treated in this manner, and the time he 
wasted trying to sort it out and even contacting the police to discuss as he was 
concerned the matter was a scam.
He should not have been subjected to such worry and inconvenience, Admiral need 
to act accordingly at the right time and not after. The guy it was escalated to even 
admitted its only his position that investigates cases to ensure the information is 
correct; this should be done as standard procedure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for an insurer that receives a claim against its policyholder to treat the 
claim as an open claim or as a fault claim against the policyholder unless and until that 
insurer has successfully resisted the claim.
Like most motor insurance policies, Admirals policy for Mr U required him to provide 
information to deal with a claim from a third party. The policy term included the following:
2. Claims procedure
oIf you or your car are involved in any type of claim, accident or loss regardless 
of fault, you must tell us about it within 48 hours.
Also you must:

ogive us all the information about the claim that we need
Mr U couldnt tell Admiral about a claim he had no knowledge of. But the third party made a 
claim identifying the registration number of Mr Us vehicle, and Admiral had to deal with that 
claim. When Admiral told him of the claim, the policy term obliged Mr U to provide 
information in response.
I dont hold Admiral responsible for the errors made by the third partys solicitor.
I can understand that Mr U was distressed and inconvenienced by what he heard from 
Admiral. But I consider that it was reasonable that Admiral had to ask him to comment on the 
claim and to provide evidence, for example to show that his car hadnt got any recent 
damage and wasnt at the reported scene of the accident.
As the claimed incident pre-dated the renewal date, I dont find that Admiral treated Mr U 
unfairly by sending its email about a change in the policy. In any event, Admirals final 
response contained an explanation, an apology and an assurance that the claim wouldnt 
affect his premium.Overall I dont find that Admiral treated Mr U unfairly or that it fell below a reasonable 
standard of service. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay compensation 
to Mr U or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman