DRN-2374600
The complaint
Miss B complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) wont refund 
money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Miss B wanted to purchase a laptop. A seller, operating on a social media platform, was 
recommended by a friend. On 29 April 2020, Miss B messaged the seller through the social 
media platform and agreed a price for a laptop that was being advertised. At around 14:22 
she made a faster payment of £350 to the seller. The seller claimed not to have received it. 
Miss B thought this was suspicious as, in her experience, payments are normally processed 
without delay. 
Due to her concerns about the payment, Miss B contacted Cashplus several times that day 
to report shed been the victim of a scam  with the first call taking place at around 4pm. 
Cashplus variously told Miss B the payment couldnt be recalled and that Miss B would need 
to raise a civil dispute and the payment might simply have been delayed. 
Miss B complained the same day. She said shed spoken to the bank which received the 
money, as well as the police  both who advised her to raise a dispute with Cashplus. It 
wasnt until 12 May 2020, after another call from Miss B, that Cashplus agreed to raise a 
fraud claim in relation to the payment.
On 20 May 2020, Cashplus responded to Miss Bs complaint. They apologised that they 
hadnt previously raised the matter with their fraud team, but said that they couldnt be held 
responsible for a payment shed willingly made from her account. Cashplus contacted the 
receiving bank the same day. Two days later the receiving bank confirmed Miss Bs money 
was no longer in their customers account, so they couldnt return it. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt think the payment would have 
stood out as being unusual or suspicious to Cashplus, so they didnt think they ought to have 
intervened to stop it. The investigator agreed Cashplus might have acted more quickly to 
recover the money but, based on information theyd received from the fraudsters bank, 
didnt think this would have made a difference to whether Miss B got her money back. 
Miss B disagreed with our investigators view. She felt that as Cashplus hadnt followed the 
correct process when she reported the scam, they should do something to put things right.
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss B, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about Cashplus 
actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Miss Bs 
account. I also dont think it could have recovered Miss Bs money before it left the 
fraudsters account.  
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Cashplus 
should reimburse her the £350 she unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Cashplus should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss B when she made a transfer to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Miss B has accepted that she authorised the payment herself. Because of this, Cashplus 
had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Cashplus shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive reviewed Miss Bs account statements for the six months prior to the scam. Miss B 
makes a regular payment which is normally significantly larger than the disputed one. She 
also made a couple of payments of a similar size and several other payments of over £100. 
And, the payment made to the fraudster left a reasonably high balance in the account. So, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say the £350 payment Miss B made, although to a 
new payee, would have appeared particularly unusual to Cashplus. 
Cashplus has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to 
have alerted Cashplus that Miss B was at risk of financial harm. As there was no interaction 
between Miss B and Cashplus prior to making the payment, I dont think they missed an 
opportunity to intervene and stop the payment. Overall, I dont think Cashplus acted 
unreasonably by not making further enquiries about the payment before processing it.
Ive also thought about whether Cashplus could have done more once it was made aware of 
the payment. 
While it was possible the payment had simply been delayed and it was true that it couldnt be 
cancelled, I do think Cashplus could have been more helpful when Miss B called them to 
report the scam. She had to make a number of calls before Cashplus agreed to raise a claim 
for her. But I can see that they ultimately did apologise and raise a dispute. There was also a 
delay in contacting the receiving bank, but this didnt make a difference to whether her funds 
could be recovered. Evidence from the bank which received the money show that it was 
moved on within about twenty minutes of being sent, and before Miss B contacted Cashplus. 
Im very sorry that Miss B has been the victim of a cruel scam. But, as I dont think Cashplus 
could have done anything more to prevent her loss, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to provide 
a refund. And, while Cashplus might have dealt with Miss Bs claim better, I dont think this 
has had a significant impact on her, I think the apology they offered was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman