DRN-2975698
The complaint
Miss S complains about a number of issues to do with her pet insurance policies that were 
held with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. Shes unhappy with:
Red Sands not sending her policy documents in June 2019
They didnt reply to her complaint about this issue
Not being given the policy documents within 14 days meaning she couldnt make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted the policies or not
The policy exclusions applied for three of her cats
The claims process when she called in April 2020
And that she was unaware of the 90-day time limit to raise a claim  
What happened
On 1 June 2019 Miss S took out six pet insurance policies with Red Sands. She asked for 
the policy documents to be sent to her by post, but they werent received. She called up on 
22 June 2019 and asked for them to be sent. At this time, Miss S also asked for a complaint 
to be considered, as she wasnt happy theyd not already been sent.
Miss S wasnt happy that by this time, she was already outside the 14-day cooling off period, 
so couldnt make an informed decision about whether she wanted to keep the policies or not.
On 10 April 2020 Miss S asked for a claim form to be sent to her by post but was told this 
wasnt possible due to the adviser working at home. At this time Miss S was also told about 
a 90-day time limit to raise a claim but said she didnt know anything about this as shed not 
received any documents.
Miss S said she received the renewal policy documents in May 2020 for renewal on 
1 June 2020. And, when reviewing this, she found exclusions had been placed on three of 
her cats policies, who Ill call O, M and B  which she said shed definitely have challenged 
had she known about these earlier.
On 9 July 2020 Miss S called Red Sands unhappy that her policy documents when she 
renewed her policy werent automatically sent by post. She complained again at this time as 
well.
In response to issues raised in this call on 9 July 2020, and subsequent back and forth with 
Miss S, Red Sands:
Accepted theyd not sent the policy documents on 1 June 2019 by post due to an 
error  but had initially sent them by email as Miss S had agreed. And they hadnt 
actioned Miss S complaint on 22 June 2019 when she called in to ask for them to be 
resent. They had though sent the policy documents by post on 22 June. For their 
errors they felt a refund of one months premium for each policy was fair to say sorry 
 this came to £80.10. They said theyd also removed her email address from their 
systems, made a note on her account to only sent documents by post, and resent the 
2019 policy documents again.
Apologised for not sending out claim forms in April 2020. They explained they were 
encouraging people to use methods that didnt involve going outside, but if this 
wasnt possible, they should have just posted a form. They also enclosed some 
further forms.
Explained that for the 90-day time limit due to the circumstances at the time there 
was some leeway with that policy condition at that moment.
Looked into the exclusions and said this would have been explained on the phone to 
Miss S at the time of taking out the policy. But when replying to Miss S they referred 
to O, M and another cat called T  not B that Miss S had queried. They did also 
update the exclusions, removing Os one, and changing Ms one.
Unhappy with Red Sands response Miss S contacted us. She said shed refused the £80.10 
compensation and wanted a full refund of any premiums paid until she received her policy 
documents which was for the June 2020 renewal. She added there had been lots of 
communication issues. She said she suffered stress on a huge scale because of this and the 
security she felt in looking after six rescued cats had been destroyed. She was also unhappy 
that shed corrected Red Sands on several occasions that it was the exclusion placed on Bs 
policy she was querying, not Ts, but they didnt reply on this point.
When contacting us, Miss S let us know about her very difficult personal circumstances, and 
how Red Sands communication has affected her. Out of respect for her privacy Ive not 
gone into detail about what shes told us, but I wanted her to know Ill be taking this into 
account. I can also see she provided Red Sands with this information.
One of our investigators started looking into things. She clarified that Miss S hadnt cancelled 
the policies when she received the renewal documents in May 2020  but had cancelled four 
of them in January 2021 and was planning to cancel the remaining two in June 2021. Our 
investigator also asked why Miss S hadnt chased up the policy documents after her call of 
22 June 2019, to which Miss S said she had too much going on. Miss S also clarified that the 
claim from April 2020 was put through for her by her vets.
Our investigator felt Red Sands had largely replied to Miss S fairly on the various issues. But 
she did think a further £50 compensation was fair for the problems regarding the exclusions. 
She also said if Miss S still holds a policy with Red Sands for B, then they need to review the 
exclusions on this policy.
Red Sands accepted this outcome, but Miss S didnt. She didnt think Red Sands had 
handled things fairly  so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I understand Miss S remaining two policies were cancelled in June 2021  meaning she no 
longer has any policies with Red Sands.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive split the complaint issues into separate sections.
Policy and complaint issues in June 2019
This section covers
Red Sands not sending her policy documents in June 2019
They didnt reply to her complaint about this issue
Not being given the policy documents within 14 days meaning she couldnt make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted the policies or not
I think its important to explain mistakes can and do happen. But where that does happen, I 
have to think about what impact thats had.
In the first call on 1 June 2019 I understand Miss S agreed to receive her documents by 
email, and they were sent to her this way. During the same call, shes asked for the 
documents to be posted to her, but this was never done. As a result, Miss S has asked for all 
premiums to be refunded for the period she didnt have her policy documents  from 
1 June 2019, to May 2020. But I dont think that would be a fair way to resolve this issue. I 
say that because if Miss S had to make a claim, then Red Sands would still have had to 
consider it. So, although I can understand it was frustrating for Miss S not to be given her 
policy documents initially on 1 June, her cover was still in force and any valid claims would 
have been paid. I also cant ignore that Red Sands did send the documents to her by email, 
so although Ive noted what shes said about using email, she had been sent the documents 
in the way she originally agreed. 
On 22 June 2019 Miss S asked for the documents to be sent to her again. Red Sands say 
they did this, Miss S doubts this because she never received them.
I dont doubt Miss S comments that she never got them. But here I can only say Red Sands 
did something wrong if they didnt send them for a second time. 
The evidence I have shows they did print and send the policy documents to Miss S on 
22 June. I cant know why Miss S didnt receive them. But Im satisfied based on the above 
Red Sands did what they said they would by sending them out.
Ive noted Miss S concerns that because she didnt get them, she didnt know what her 
policy covered. But Miss S also didnt follow this up until almost a year later  and when in 
contact with Red Sands on other matters, also didnt mention it. Shes explained her 
personal circumstances meant she had too much going on. But I think Red Sands were 
entitled to believe shed received them when they posted them out on 22 June, as shed not 
told them differently.
I do think its poor Red Sands didnt address Miss S complaint when she raised it on 
22 June 2019. Theyve not provided an explanation for this, I suspect due to the time thats 
passed they simply dont know why this happened. Again though, Miss S didnt mention this 
again when speaking to Red Sands until July 2020. So, although Red Sands have made a 
mistake here, Miss S hasnt followed it up.That doesnt make it OK, but when thinking about compensation I need to think about the 
impact its had on someone. Im aware Red Sands have offered £80.10 for this issue  and 
Ill come back to this at the end in the summary section.
In respect of the 14-day cancellation period I can understand Miss S point here. The 
purpose of the 14 days is to allow someone to read over the policy documents and make 
sure theyre satisfied they meet their needs. 
So, in this situation I need to think about what Miss S would have done, had she received 
the documents. When she did get the renewal documents in May 2020, she did carry on with 
her policies  renewing all six of them in June 2020. So, I think its reasonable for me to say 
that if shed received them as planned in June 2019, then shed most likely have done the 
same thing. Because of that, I wont be upholding this element of her complaint.
Policy exclusions
This section covers
The policy exclusions applied for three of her cats
Miss S disputed exclusions for her cats O, M and B. While Red Sands looked into the 
exclusions for O and M, they didnt look into B, they looked into another cat T.
For O, they accepted there was no evidence to justify the exclusion, so removed it. Because 
of that, I dont need to consider this further.
For M, they removed the exclusion theyd placed for an eating issue. But having reviewed 
Ms clinical history noted colitis and gastritis had presented  so placed an exclusion for the 
digestive system. This seems reasonable based on the information provided.
Red Sands havent, to my knowledge, looked into Miss S concerns about B  who had an 
exclusion placed for a fatty tumour. But Im not sure that they need to any further at this time. 
I say that because my understanding is Miss S has now cancelled her policies with Red 
Sands. So, even if they were to look into things theres no policy that needs to be updated.
But I dont think Red Sands have acted fairly overall here. When Miss S has disputed the 
exclusions placed on the policy theyve removed one, updated another and provided an 
answer for a different cat despite Miss S telling them on several occasions they were talking 
about the wrong cat.
A big part of Miss S complaint is poor communication and that no one at Red Sands has 
been listening to her  given the above I can see why she might feel like that.
Again though, I need to consider the impact on her. My understanding is there hasnt been 
any claims affected by the exclusions that have been placed  so its inconvenience as a 
result of the way Red Sands have communicated. Ill come back to this as part of my 
summary section.Claims related issues
This section covers
The claims process when she called in April 2020
And that she was unaware of the 90-day time limit to raise a claim
When Miss S called Red Sands she asked for a claims form to be sent to her, which she 
was told wasnt possible. Red Sands have since acknowledged this was wrong information  
but was done with the best intentions of trying to help people not have to physically go to 
their vets.
Although done with the best intentions, theyve still made a mistake which has had an impact 
on Miss S which is disappointing. I understand the claim was successfully processed, so I 
dont need to consider that further. But Ill consider the impact in the next section.
As for the 90-day time limit, Ive not seen anything to show Miss S has been negatively 
affected by this by, for example, having a claim turned down. So, although I can see she was 
surprised when she found out about this, I cant see that its had an impact on her.
Summary
Our investigator recommended £50 for the issues regarding the exclusions which Red 
Sands agreed to. That means the total compensation amount available for Miss S is £130.10 
currently.
Rather than thinking about how much compensation is fair for each issue, Ive thought about 
everything as a whole to decide whether this represents a fair amount of compensation for 
the trouble Miss S has been put to. 
Having done so, I think it does. I understand Miss S may well feel that more compensation 
would be fair. But in thinking about the impact on her, although she didnt get the policy 
documents in the post, she had been sent them by email  and still had a valid policy in 
force. Im not aware that the exclusions have had any impact in terms of a claim outcome 
(and, if they have, then Miss S could raise this as a separate complaint if shed like to)  and 
she was able to get her claim submitted through her vets after not being able to receive a 
paper claim form. So, although I think Red Sands havent handled things well, I do think 
£130.10 overall is fair.  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to pay Miss S a total of £130.10 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman