DRN-3826381
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice given by TenetConnect Limited in relation to his Group 
Personal Pension, which resulted in him losing his entitlement to a loyalty bonus. 
Mr C has been represented in this complaint by his IFA, but Ill mainly refer to Mr C. 
Your text here
What happened
The advice in this case was given by an adviser from firm C, who later moved to LEBC 
which from December 2011 became an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited 
(Tenet). Ill mainly refer to Tenet in the decision, but its only responsible for what happened 
since December 2011. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill just refer to some key 
points here:
Mr C was a member of his defined contribution workplace pension, which Ill refer to as 
the retirement benefit scheme (RBS).
Mr C contributed 3% of his salary to the RBS and his employer contributed 7%.
He also made monthly additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) initially of £16.28, 
which increased to £25.
His selected retirement date was his 65th birthday in March 2024.
In 2004 the trustees of the RBS consulted firm C about closing the scheme.
C recommended replacing it with a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with provider F.
The RBS was closed to new contributions in November 2004, after which they were 
directed to the new GPP including the AVCs.
In January 2005 the RBS was being wound up, and members including Mr C were given 
three options for their accrued benefits. Mr Cs transfer value was given as £45,049.
The options were (A) to transfer the accrued benefits to the new GPP with Firm F, (C) to 
have the benefits assigned to the member themselves, or (B) transfer to another pension 
plan of the members choice, but this option incurred a transfer penalty of around £3,480. 
As well as no transfer penalty, option A came with a loyalty bonus (the Extra Fund 
Injection or EFI), which could be as much as 15% at retirement.
But to qualify for the EFI Mr C had to maintain contributions to the policy to within 100 
months (8.3 years) of his retirement date (until at least December 2015).
If contributions ceased before then, the EFI arising from pre-2004 contributions would be 
lost.
Mr C chose option A, and his benefits were transferred to the GPP with F, retaining the 
EFI.
In 2012 Mr Cs employer decided to change provider of the GPP from F to A.
Tenet wrote to the members a number of times, with personalised illustrations, and gave 
several work-place presentations.
The letters explained the advantages of the switch were that provider A offered lower 
charges (0.65% rather than Fs 1%), wider fund choice and improved online access.
The August 2012 letter commented assuming all other factors are equal between the 
GPP schemes [lower charges] should lead to a higher pension fund value.
The letters made clear they didnt constitute personal advice, but Tenet offered personal 
meetings if members needed advice to make their decision.
No disadvantages, such as the loss of EFI or the transfer penalty were mentioned.
Mr C attended one of the presentations but didnt request a personal advice meeting.
Mr C signed an application to join the new GPP with A, and a request form to transfer the 
funds held with F (valued at just under £94,141) to the new plan with A. 
He says both forms were pre-completed, and he just signed them.
As a result, he stopped making AVCs to the plan with F more than three years before the 
eligibility date, so he lost his entitlement to the EFI.
As well as losing the EFI, Mr C later discovered his fund had been reduced by a transfer 
penalty of £2,944, which he hadnt been told about.
In 2018 Mr Cs employer decided to change pension provider again, to S.
Mr C complained to Tenet in March 2020, believing if he hadnt transferred his deferred 
benefits away from F, they would be worth in excess of £206k, including a with-profits 
bonus and the EFI.
Mr C believes rather than act in his best interests, the adviser acted in their own 
interests, in order to receive the commission payment of £3,765 from A.
Tenet rejected the complaint, saying it hadnt given Mr C personal advice.
They hadnt told Mr C he had to transfer from F, it was optional.
The trustees letter of January 2005 had made the terms of the GPP clear, so Mr C had 
all the information he needed to make a decision.
Mr C complained to this service in October 2020, believing if hed continued making 
AVCs to F hed be more than £45,468 better off in retirement.
The findings of my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 in which I upheld the complaint.
I first acknowledged the event being complained about had happened more than six 
years before Mr C complained. But I thought Tenet had consented to our involvement, so 
I didnt need to address jurisdiction further.
I accepted Tenet hadnt given Mr C personal advice, and moving to a lower cost provider 
would probably benefit the scheme overall.
But I wasnt satisfied Tenet had fulfilled its responsibilities, by only citing the advantages 
of the change of provider from F to A (lower charges, wider fund choice and better online 
access), without mentioning any possible disadvantages.
For previous members of the RBS like Mr C, there were significant disadvantages (the 
transfer penalty and the loss of EFI), which had the potential to outweigh any cost-saving 
benefits from the transfer.
I set out how to put Mr C in the position hed have been in if hed retained his entitlement 
to the EFI, by carrying out a comparison calculation, to establish his loss. 
But as I was under the impression Mr C had ceased making AVCs in 2012, I said the 
cost of those should be deducted from the redress. 
And I directed Tenet to pay Mr C compensation of £250. 
Responses to the first provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision.
Mr C via his representative made the following points (in summary) 
The forms (to join the new GPP with A and to transfer the benefits of his existing plan 
from F to A) were pre-completed, Mr C just signed them.None of the illustrations of Fs forecasted retirement benefits were accurate, as they 
didnt include the terminal bonus or the EFI, so Mr C couldnt make a proper 
comparison. 
Had Tenet requested a surrender value this wouldve shown the true value reflecting 
the transfer penalty, which wouldve shown the transfer to A wasnt beneficial to him.
Tenet might not be responsible for providing the illustrations (they came from F), but 
they shouldve requested the right type.
Its not reasonable to expect Mr C to remember the contents of the original 2005 
letter regarding the transfer of the RBS to the GPP with F.
Mr C continued to make extra payments to the plan with A from 2012, and to the new 
provider S, but via salary sacrifice, rather than making AVCs (payslip evidence was 
provided).
When his employer decided to change pension provider again, Mr C chose instead to 
transfer to his own personal pension held with provider R, so any redress should be 
paid to the plan held with R.
Tenet also responded as follows:
On further consideration Tenet thought the complaint should be time-barred, as it had 
been raised more than six years since the original advice in 2012, so didnt consent 
to us looking into the merits.
It hadnt raised the time bar previously, because in his original complaint, Mr C said 
he couldnt locate any correspondence from the transfer from F to A in 2012, so 
Tenet couldnt be sure hed seen it;
But in May 2020 Mr C wrote to Tenet enclosing copies of retirement benefit 
illustrations provided by F and A in May 2012, to support his complaint. Fs illustration 
included a reference to the EFI. 
Tenet said this shows Mr C had access to the relevant information all along, so he 
ought reasonably to have known he had cause to complain at the time.
As Mr C didnt complain within three years of having this knowledge, the complaint 
has been made too late.
I issued a second provisional decision to address the jurisdiction issue and to revise the 
redress.
The rules this service must follow are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and are known 
as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. 
DISP rule 2.8.2(2) says that where a business doesnt consent to us looking at a complaint 
(as Tenet doesnt in this case), we cant consider it if its been brought;
(a) more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later
(b) more than three years after the consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, they had cause to complain
I set out in the second provisional decision the reasons why I thought the complaint had 
been brought in time, even though Mr C had complained more than six years since the 
subject of the complaint in 2012. 
However on reviewing the file again, I could see Tenet had already consented to our 
involvement. On my initial review of the file I had asked the investigator to request further 
information from Tenet, including whether it consented to our involvement, given the 
complaint had been raised more than six years after 2012.In its response of 22 July 2022 Tenet consented, and DISP rule 2.8.2A confirms that once a 
respondent business has consented, that consent cannot be withdrawn. 
So Im satisfied the complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service. 
The findings from the second provisional decision 
My findings in relation to whether Mr C was treated fairly remain as they were in the first 
provisional decision. 
Tenet did offer Mr C a personal meeting if he wanted one. And its 16 February 2012 letter 
informed Mr C, due to his age and fund size, he fell into the category of members who would 
particularly benefit from advice. But it didnt mention the impact of transferring to A on his 
eligibility for the EFI as a factor in his decision making. Mr C may have understood that once 
the new GPP with A was established, his future employee and employer contributions would 
go to the new plan. But he had a choice about whether to transfer the accrued benefits from 
the F plan across to A as well. I didnt think Tenet made Mr C aware of what he risked giving 
up by not retaining his deferred benefits with F, and continuing to make AVCs to F. 
I didnt think that because the same adviser had been involved in both the 2005 and 2012 
transactions, he shouldve remembered Mr Cs eligibility for the EFI. But I said Tenets letter 
should have included some reference to additional factors affecting members of the original 
RBS, as the vague reference to Mr Cs age and fund size wouldnt have alerted him that he 
risked losing his entitlement to the EFI.  
At the time of the advice the then regulator (the FSA) guidance said as follows under PERG 
8.28.2:
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value 
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice. 
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them. 
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively 
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell. 
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information: 
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that 
information to the customers investment decision; or 
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that 
the information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or 
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial 
adviser) before making a final decision.
Tenet recommended the switch from Firm F to Firm A to reduce costs, but I said for balance, 
its communications shouldve mentioned the disadvantages such as the transfer penalty 
which as far as I could see was relevant to all members. 
Tenet said it didnt provide personal advice to Mr C, as he didnt accept a personal meeting. 
And Mr C didnt need to transfer his accrued benefits from F to A and they never told him he 
did. But I said Tenets correspondence with Mr C went further than merely providing factual 
information. Rather it made a value judgement which unfairly focussed on the advantages of one option over the other, without explaining any potential disadvantages, such as the 
significant exit penalty. I contrasted this with the way the information was presented to Mr C 
in 2005, where the disadvantages (such as the exit penalty) were clearly stated. Whereas in 
2012 the exit penalty wasnt mentioned at all, and Mr C only found out about it after the 
transfer had taken place. So I said Tenets information was incomplete (as it failed to 
mention Fs exit penalty), and misleading, by only including advantages but no potential 
disadvantages. Tenet has confirmed it received commission from the new provider Firm A of 
over £4,000 in respect of Mr Cs transfer, which it wouldnt have received if Mr C hadnt 
switched. Receiving commission in this way was permitted in 2012, but I think it was an 
incentive for Tenet to encourage members to switch to Firm A.  
In response to Tenets claim that the regulatory guidance only applied specifically to 
comparisons of one investment over another, I said arranging or bringing about an 
investment is a regulated activity in its own right. And as Tenet was responsible for arranging 
the switch of Mr Cs pension from the GPP with Firm F to Firm A, and received commission 
for doing so, I was satisfied it arranged or brought about the investment of Mr Cs plan. And 
in any case Tenet was always required to ensure it acted in the consumers best interests, 
and to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
So having considered the case afresh I still thought if Tenet had included all the relevant 
factual information in its letters to Mr C, hed have either requested personal advice, which 
would have recommended not switching his accrued benefits with F to A, due to the loss of 
the EFI. Or he wouldve had enough information to decide for himself not to switch anyway, 
by weighing up the benefits of lower charges against the significant exit penalty, and the 
potential loss of the EFI.
Mr C didnt have to switch his accrued benefits from F to A. But its not clear once the new 
GPP with A was established, if his employee and employer contributions would need to be 
paid to A, or if they could continue to be paid to F. But even if Mr C had to make his 
employee and employer contributions to A going forward, I think instead of making his AVCs 
to the new plan with A, hed have continued contributing to the AVC with F (effectively an 
FSAVC), and as a result retained his eligibility to the EFI. So I thought Tenet should put 
things right on that basis. 
Mr Cs GPP has changed provider again to S. And hes continued to make additional 
pension contributions: from May 2012 to July 2018 to A, and thereafter to S, by way of salary 
sacrifice rather than AVCs. 
So I was satisfied if things had gone as they should have, Mr C wouldve been making his 
AVCs to F throughout.  So I set out revised redress on that basis.
Responses to the second provisional decision
Tenet didnt respond.
Mr Cs representative responded as follows (in summary);
Mr C only became aware of potential problems with his pension in 2018 when the 
provider changed again, and at that point asked her to review it.
None of the forecasted illustrations were accurate as they didnt include a terminal 
bonus from being invested partly in the with-profits fund, which was separate from 
the EFI.
Tenet may not have been responsible for producing the illustrations, but they should 
have requested the right ones, so it isnt fair to blame F.
Given the transfer affected around 250 employees Tenet should have performed 
random compliance checks to confirm their accuracy.Mr C didnt receive clear, fair and not misleading information, and had the illustrations 
been correct hed never have consented to transfer for lesser financial return at 
retirement.
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in the provisional 
decisions. Which is that in 2012 Tenet didnt provide Mr C with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the implications of the switch of provider from F to A. As they only 
mentioned the generic benefits without referring to any potential disadvantages for previous 
members of the RBS such as Mr C. Had they done so I think Mr C would not have agreed to 
transfer the deferred benefits of his plan from F to A and wouldve continued to make AVCs 
to the plan with F, thus retaining his entitlement to the EFI. 
I take the representatives point about the future pension illustrations not including the 
terminal bonus in respect of the with-profits fund. But a terminal bonus is never guaranteed, 
so couldnt be relied on. And even if Tenet had ensured the accuracy of the illustrations as 
Mr Cs representative suggests, Im not persuaded Mr C decided to transfer based on 
comparing the illustrations. He told us he took the impression from the presentation he 
attended Tenet recommended the transfer to A. He saw no reason to question this, so just 
signed the forms he was presented with. We dont know the content of those presentations, 
but I think if previous members of the RBS had been informed of the implications for them, 
its more likely Mr C wouldve requested further clarification particularly in relation to the EFI. 
So I uphold the complaint and require Tenet to put things right as set out below. 
Putting things right
It's not possible to reinstate Mr Cs plan with Firm F. So my aim here is to put Mr C in as 
close a position as possible as if his accrued benefits had remained with Firm F and hed 
continued to make AVCs to it, to retain his entitlement to the EFI. 
Tenet must do the following:
(A) Obtain a current valuation of Mr Cs existing GPP plan, to which his employee and 
employer contributions have been made. 
(B) Calculate what the notional value of Mr Cs GPP with Firm F wouldve been if the 
transfer of just under £94,141 to Firm A had been retained in July 2012, adding back 
in the exit penalty of around £2,944. And for the purposes of the calculation, based 
on Mr Cs employer, employee, and AVC contributions being made to the GPP with 
Firm F, invested in the same way as the original plan with Firm F was. (The 
administrator of the Firm F plan has confirmed it was invested in the Av Managed 
and FLAS With-Profits Sub-Fund).
If Tenet confirms Mr Cs employer and employee contributions would have had to be 
paid to A from 2012, then the calculation should be done on that basis. 
(C) Uplift the value to allow for the EFI by increasing that portion of the sum arrived at in 
(B) which would have benefitted from the EFI had Mr C remained with Firm F and maintained his AVC contributions. This will involve Tenet obtaining information from 
the administrators of the Firm F GPP.
(D) Compare (A) the actual value of Mr Cs current pension plan, with (C) the notional 
value of his plan had he not switched from Firm F and retained his entitlement to the 
EFI. 
(E) If (D) is negative Tenet needs to pay nothing other than (G) below.
(F) If (D) is positive then Mr C has suffered a loss, and Tenet should if possible pay the 
redress into his current pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr C as a cash lump sum, after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr C would have been able to take tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20% as a basic rate taxpayer. So making a notional 
reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Interest should be added at 8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days of the business receiving Mr Cs acceptance)
(G) Pay Mr C £250 for the distress and inconvenience the situation has caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TenetConnect Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman