DRN-2201442
The complaint
Ms E has complained J P Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Post Office Card Account, 
wont refund her the money she lost after her card was stolen.
What happened
Ms E opened a Post Office Card Account in March 2020. She picked up her card from her 
local Post Office on 19 March. She started to use it to withdraw cash from the cash machine.
On 16 April Ms E was brutally attacked. Contents from her handbag were stolen as well as 
her Post Office card. The contents included the original letter from the Post Office confirming 
the PIN to her. Within an hour of being attacked, £110 was taken out of a cash machine 
using Ms Es card and PIN.  
Ms E cancelled her card with the Post Office early the next morning. Immediately after the 
attack she had gone home suffering the effect of what had happened.
Ms E asked the Post Office to refund her for what had happened. She was open with them. 
Shed kept her PIN letter in her handbag even though she was aware her account terms and 
conditions specified she shouldnt keep the card and PIN together. As Ms E breached the 
account terms and conditions, the Post Office wouldnt refund her.
Ms E brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. After reviewing the evidence and 
explaining the regulations which govern how we consider these cases, our investigator told 
Ms E she couldnt ask the Post Office to refund her.
Ms E was very disappointed and has asked an ombudsman to make a decision. Shes also 
pointed out her perilous financial position this year due to her complete loss of income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
In her view of 23 September 2020 our investigator explained what we considered when we 
look at cases like Ms Es. The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. 
These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments 
themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply. So, for example, whether a customer has 
acted in a grossly negligent manner by keeping their card and PIN together. This aspect has 
had an impact on the decision Im making here. 
Theres no real dispute Ms E didnt make or authorise the use of her card. This took place 
after she was attacked and her card was stolen.
However theres similarly no dispute Ms E had kept her PIN letter in her handbag and this 
was stolen as well.
Its not just the Post Offices terms and condition which advise against this. It seems clear to 
me that retaining the PIN in her handbag means that Ms E acted in a grossly negligent 
manner.
Ive considered that Ms E had only recently opened her Post Office account so may well 
have needed to keep the PIN letter close in case shed forgotten the PIN. But I can also see 
Ms E had used her card to withdraw cash quite regularly since 19 March. Shed taken out 
small amounts of money more than twice a week. Im not suggesting Ms E didnt need to 
have a note of her PIN but I believe itd be reasonable for her to keep the PIN in some 
disguised manner. This isnt what happened here.
Im also aware theres no reasonable way Ms E could have known she was going to be 
attacked so I want to make sure Ms E knows that this isnt her fault in any way. But because 
of the requirements under the PSRs, I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to ask the 
Post Office to refund her.
Im sure Ms E wont be surprised by this outcome. I appreciate how hard a time shes been 
having this year and can understand why shed want to try to appeal as far as she could to 
get her money back. This decision now brings an end to her complaint with our service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Es complaint against J P 
Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Post Office Card Account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman