DRN-3616955
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Allianz Global Assistance dealt with a claim he made 
under his Home Emergency policy. 
What happened
On 24 December 2020 Mr M contacted Allianz as his roof was leaking and water was 
coming into his home. Allianz arranged for a contractor to attend on 30 December 2021. But 
the contractor didnt arrive and Mr M says this was rearranged for the following day, but 
again the contractor didnt arrive. 
On 13 January 2021 Mr M got in touch with Allianz as a contractor still hadnt arrived. Allianz 
said somebody would be in touch shortly. 
On 25 January 2021 Mr M told Allianz nothing had changed and so he asked if he could 
arrange for the leak to be repaired himself and for Allianz to reimburse him for the costs. 
Allianz agreed and Mr M arranged for repairs to be done. To stop further leaks into his home 
On 3 February 2021 Mr M sent Allianz an invoice for the repairs which Allianz said it would 
reimburse him for. 
Mr M complained to Allianz. He said as a result of the delay the inside of his home had been 
damaged. He wanted Allianz to meet the costs of the internal damage caused by the delay. 
Allianz accepted it had provided a poor service and said it had given feedback to the 
relevant parties. But it said it wasnt responsible for any consequential damage and that Mr 
M would need to contact his home insurance provider to make a claim. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He told the Investigator he 
hasnt yet had the internal repairs completed. Mr M described the impact of the delay on him 
and his son. He said he had to take days off work while expecting a contractor to attend, but 
they didnt arrive. He said it was very stressful as there was further bad weather and rain 
was pouring into his home while he was waiting for assistance from Allianz. 
Our Investigator thought it was difficult to tell what damage was caused by the initial leak 
and what was due to the delay caused by Allianz. But Mr M had explained that when he first 
contacted Allianz, repairs were limited to one ceiling requiring a fresh coat of paint. However, 
by the time the repairs were carried out which was over a month later, there had been further 
rain and so if Allianz had acted promptly, Mr M would more likely than not have been put to 
the necessity to claim under his home insurance policy in order to repair the damage. 
So the Investigator thought the fairest outcome was for Allianz to be given the opportunity to 
assess Mr Ms claim for consequential damage  either by way of a cash settlement  or to 
arrange for an approved contractor carry out the repairs. 
The Investigator thought Allianz should consider Mr Ms claim for loss of earnings subject to 
reasonable proof for the time he took off for missed attendance(s) by a contractor. 
And he thought Mr M should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience Allianzs 
delay caused him. For this the Investigator recommended Allianz pay Mr M £150 
compensation. 
Allianz didnt reply. Mr M said he would prefer a cash settlement. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a copy of a quote hes obtained to repair the internal damage to his 
home. This comes to £1,056.00. Its not clear if this is inclusive or exclusive of VAT. 
Mr Ms policy with Allianz has the following exclusion which it is relying on:
General exclusions applying to the whole policy
Any indirect loss or any other cost or loss that is not directly caused by the event
that led to your claim
I dont think there is anything wrong with this term if Allianz had promptly dealt with Mr Ms 
request for assistance under the policy. However in this case Allianz failed to provide prompt 
assistance for an emergency and I think its reasonably safe to conclude that there was 
consequential damage from the ongoing leak because of Allianzs failing. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for Allianz to assess the claim for consequential damage, 
provide a Schedule of Works (SOW) and settle the claim. Its for Allianz to decide if it would 
prefer to settle the claim by way of a cash settlement. But I think it should be given the 
opportunity to arrange for the repairs to be done by an approved contractor for the damage 
caused by its poor service if it prefers to do this.
I think Allianz should consider a claim for Mr Ms loss of earnings subject to reasonable proof 
of loss for the days Mr M says he took off to wait for a contractor. Mr M says the contract he 
is working under means when he takes time off he isnt paid. 
While its expected to have a degree of inconvenience when dealing with any claim, Mr M 
has described the impact of the delay caused by Allianz. He said he had to move his son 
from his bedroom to live downstairs and he was concerned about electrics upstairs due to 
the water ingress. Mr M says it was distressing for him to manage the changes for his son 
who is living with a health condition  and for having to chase Allianz each time the 
contractor didnt arrive while the leak wasnt repaired for over a month  until he made his 
own arrangements. 
So I think Allianz should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
poor service caused him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Global Assistance to do the 
following:
Assess Mr Ms claim for consequential damage as a result of its delay.
Consider Mr Ms claim for loss of earnings for the days he says he took off work 
when a contractor didnt arrive  subject to proof of loss from Mr M.
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Allianzs poor handling of his claim. Allianz Global Assistance must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman