DRN-4269473
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a second charge secured loan he has with Lender E, and which is 
administered by Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Acenden. He is unhappy 
that Ascenden started legal action to repossess his home as he believed the loan should 
have been paid since 2019 by the Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) he was sold 
alongside the loan and which Ascenden should have made a claim under.
What happened
In the autumn of 2006 Mr M took out an interest-only loan with Lender S for £30,000 (plus 
the premium for a PPI policy) over a term of 15 years. The loan was subsequently 
transferred to Lender E. As Lender E is not authorised to administer mortgages and secured 
loans, it appointed Acenden to do so on its behalf.
After March 2016 Mr M started having financial difficulties and stopped making payments to 
the loan. Acenden unsuccessfully attempted to contact Mr M on numerous occasions during 
2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and became aware that Mr M was no longer living in the 
property the loan was secured on. On each visit Acenden arranged to be made to the 
property to attempt to contact Mr M thereafter, it was confirmed the property was tenanted. 
The last of these visits was in September 2021.
Acenden started legal action because of the arrears on the loan, which prompted Mr M to 
contact it in July 2019. It asked him for information about his income and expenditure, and 
when he told it of his medical situation, details of that too. Mr M provided Acenden with 
medical evidence in August 2019, which he explained meant that he could not work. There 
was no mention of the PPI policy in Mr Ms correspondence. However, he did raise its 
existence in a telephone call and Acenden provided him with all the information it had about 
the policy, including details of the broker that had sold it and the product provider, with the 
addresses for both businesses. Mr M was very clearly told that Acenden could not assist him 
with the PPI policy and he would need to speak to the broker who sold it to him or seek 
advice from a financial adviser.
A payment arrangement was also entered into in August 2019, whereby Mr M would pay the 
monthly contractual payment plus an additional lump sum every six months. The arrears and 
fees balances totalled just under £20,000 at that time. The legal action was stopped in light 
of this agreement. However, the payment arrangement failed almost immediately and it 
appears that Mr M didnt respond to Acendens requests for him to contact it thereafter.
Acenden started legal proceedings again in 2021. The term of the loan also ended in 
November 2021, which meant Mr M was due to repay the capital balance  he didnt do so. 
In the autumn of 2022 a possession hearing occurred and the Court issued a suspended 
possession order.
Mr M complained to Acenden about the action it was taking as he believed the payments to 
the loan should have been covered by the PPI policy. Acenden responded to Mr Ms 
complaint in its letter of 18 November 2022 and explained to Mr M that the loan and PPI 
policy had been sold to him by an independent broker. Although the amount of the PPI 
premium had been added to the amount borrowed, the PPI policy was completely separate 
from the loan and any documentation relating to it would have been sent directly to Mr M. 
Acenden went on to confirm that its records of conversations with Mr M from 2016 when his 
financial difficulties began didnt involve mention of the PPI policy. The first record it had of 
the policy being mentioned was 2019, when it confirmed details of the broker that had sold 
the policy, the insurer and the premium that had been charged. It was then not until 2022 
that the PPI policy was raised again, when Mr M had said that he thought it should have 
covered the payments on the mortgage. Acenden didnt consider that it had done anything 
wrong, and the complaint was not upheld. 
Mr M was not satisfied with Acendens response and asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to consider his complaint. Acenden paused the legal action at this point. 
When Mr M referred his complaint to this service, he added in some additional complaint 
points regarding the litigation process and communications, the outstanding balance and 
said that he wanted to set up a repayment plan. Acenden dealt with these as a separate 
complaint and provided Mr M with its response in a letter of 20 January 2023. Those issues 
dont form part of this complaint.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. He said he believes that Acenden could 
have told him in 2019 that his PPI policy was with another company and provided him with 
details of the provider, as it had in 2022. He said that he hadnt received the information 
Acenden had sent him in 2019 and so hed only been given this information after significant 
arrears had built-up and the term had expired. In addition, Mr M said that he had been told 
on a call in 2019, when he made a payment, that he didnt need to do anything further in 
relation to the PPI policy.
Mr M also highlighted that the loan had changed owners many times since the original sale 
and Acenden had also become involved with it  he had assumed that the PPI provider had 
changed when the owner of the loan had changed. He was not told otherwise until 2022. As 
such, Mr M believed that the Investigator had been unfair in her judgement as he had been 
misled by Acenden many times. 
The Investigator considered Mr Ms further comments, but she wasnt persuaded to change 
her conclusions. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be 
passed to an Ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that he was told in a telephone conversation in 2019 that he didnt need to 
take any action in relation to the PPI policy. He confirmed these comments were made 
following him making a payment. Not all of the telephone calls between Mr M and Acenden 
are available due to the passage of time. However, we do have the notes made at the times 
of each call. I have examined these notes and while there was one occasion that Mr M tried 
to make a payment over the telephone on 2 September 2019, no payment was able to be 
made. It was detailed that he would try to make the payment via Acendens website. The 
only discussion recorded at that time was about this payment  there was no mention of the 
PPI policy. I also think it is unlikely that there would have been at that stage as a month 
earlier Mr M has specifically asked for information about the PPI policy to be sent to him, having been told Acenden couldnt help him in relation to the PPI policy. 
Acenden sent Mr M the information he asked for. I note that hes said he didnt receive it, but 
given he had specifically requested the information, I would have expected him to have 
chased this up when he spoke to Acenden the following month if it had not been received. It 
would also appear that the address Acenden sent its correspondence to was accessible to 
Mr M, despite him not living at the address, as its clear he responded to some of the letters 
sent. In addition, I note that Mr M confirmed the address Acenden addressed its letter to was 
the correct one to send the information about the PPI policy to.
While Mr M has said that he was confused about who was responsible for the PPI policy, 
given the number of times the loan had been transferred between lenders, and he assumed 
the same thing had happened with the policy, I am not persuaded this was a reasonable 
assumption. Firstly, any letters he would have been sent about the change in ownership of 
the loan would have referred to only the loan, not it and the PPI policy. In addition, Acenden 
clearly told him it wasnt responsible for the PPI policy in 2019 and he needed to speak to 
the selling broker about it. He was then provided with details of the broker and the product 
provider. 
I am satisfied that Acenden was not responsible for making a claim on Mr Ms behalf on the 
PPI policy. Indeed, it is unlikely that it would have been able to do so even if it had tried, 
given it was not the policyholder and would not have been considered to have Mr Ms 
authority to do so. Furthermore, I consider that had Mr M wanted to make a claim under the 
policy in 2019, Acenden had provided him with all of the information it was able to do so in 
order to assist him. I have seen no evidence that Acenden misled him about the policy, what 
he needed to do to make a claim, or of it having made a claim on the policy on his behalf.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
11 September 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman