DRN-2316219
The complaint
Mr A complains about UKI Insurance Limiteds handling of his Roadside Assistance 
Insurance claim.
All references to UKI include their agents
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says UKI will recover a vehicle if they cant fix the problem at roadside 
or at home. UKI attended the breakdown and diagnosed what they believed to be 
the problem and said Mr As vehicle would need recovery  and a low loaded 
recovery vehicle would be needed for Mr As vehicle. Although I can appreciate it 
wouldve been frustrating having to wait for a recovery vehicle, as UKI had 
attended the appointment initially to see if they could fix the problem at the 
roadside, I dont think this was unreasonable
UKI have provided copies of text messages they sent to Mr A on the night of the 
breakdown. Having viewed these, Im satisfied they kept in contact with Mr A and 
made him aware of the estimated time they would attend. I can also see they 
updated Mr A when the estimated arrival changed by around a further hour. 
Given the time of night, and the impact the breakdown was having, I can see why 
Mr A was frustrated with a further wait for the recovery, but I dont think UKI have 
acted unreasonably here
The policy says a customer must make sure their vehicle is fit to drive at the start 
of each journey and should take all reasonable steps to prevent their vehicle 
breaking down. UKI made Mr A aware the car would break down when it gets too 
hot, and this would happen after a short distance. But he chose to drive the car 
the next day knowing this and the car broke down again. The locations Mr A 
visited were easily accessible by alternative means, so Im not persuaded of any 
reason he specifically needed to use his car. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
hold UKI responsible for any of the events that led to the Police taking Mr As 
vehicle.
UKI accepted there were communication issues and delays in returning Mr As 
car following it being recovered from the Police compound and have paid Mr A 
£50 compensation. Considering the circumstances, the length of the delays, and 
UKI paying costs for Mr A to have a courtesy vehicle. I think this offer fairly 
represents the inconvenience Mr A has been caused by this issue - so I wont be 
recommending UKI pay any further compensation
Mr A said his car was damaged inside whilst in UKIs care. He provided photos 
and said he believed it had been damaged by overexposure to sunlight. UKI said 
the vehicle had been stored in the usual way and believed the damage was more 
consistent with chemical damage. The photos show bubbling in the plastic in the 
area close to the gear stick, which looks consistent with being burnt by a 
substance or type of spillage. So, Im more persuaded by what UKI have said. I 
haven't seen anything that persuades me this would have occurred under UKI's 
care so I'm not holding them responsible.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman