DRN-2129946
The complaint
Ms F complains that medical treatment took her over the outpatient allowance under her 
employers private medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited, and that BUPA 
failed to advise her of this. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Ms F and BUPA. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that BUPA made it clear to Ms F that once the allowance had been used 
then she would be responsible for any outpatient costs. It also advised her to monitor 
her outpatient balance, so that she didnt exceed this. 
I dont agree with Ms F that BUPA misrepresented the outpatient balance during the 
phone calls. I think it was apparent that when BUPA advised Ms F of her remaining 
outpatient balance, this was based on the invoices it had received. I think it was Ms 
Fs responsibility to keep track of her outpatient costs, to ensure she didnt exceed 
the allowance.
Ms F thinks BUPA ought to have known all the prices of the tests recommended to 
her by a BUPA approved doctor before giving authorisation. I dont agree. Whilst 
BUPA may have some idea of the costs of certain tests, it wouldnt be practical to 
expect it to keep track of the costs of all tests charged by different hospitals. During 
one phone call, BUPAs adviser explained to Ms F that if she needed blood tests then 
these could be very expensive. She was advised to check the cost of the tests with 
the hospital in advance, as they may take her over her allowance. She was also told 
she could have some tests on the NHS, so this could be an option in order to keep 
costs down. I think it was reasonable for BUPA to bring this to her attention, given 
that the adviser knew from experience that blood tests could be expensive.
BUPA gave Ms F incorrect information when it advised her that a consultation and 
histology test would be fully covered by the policy, as this should have come out of 
her outpatient allowance. BUPA accepted its mistake and has agreed to cover the 
costs in full, which I think was fair. 
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman