DRN-3426773
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with his claim.
What happened
Mr B bought a travel insurance policy underwritten by Ageas to cover a ski instructor trip. 
The trip dates were 17 January 2021 to 4 April 2021. Mr B travelled as planned but on 20 
February 2021 he had a fall and injured himself. He broke his collarbone and required 
medical treatment in hospital on 24 February. He was discharged on 25 February.
Mr B was unable to continue with the ski course but remained abroad and returned as 
planned on his original return date. 
Towards the end of April, Mr B saw a UK doctor privately for a follow up consultation. 
Mr B submitted a claim to Ageas for the costs of his medical treatment, missed course costs 
of £2,940 and the consultation with the UK doctor amounting to £457. 
Ageas paid the medical costs abroad but declined to pay the full missed course costs or the 
UK consultation. It said the course costs could only be covered under the ski pack section 
which had a maximum limit of £500 and treatment in the UK wasnt covered. 
Mr B complained and unhappy with Ageas response, referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. 
She said Mr B travelled abroad against the advice of the UK government and so his claim 
could have been fully excluded by Ageas.
Mr B disagreed and said he travelled for education purposes as a legally permitted reason 
under the law. He says the claim is valid as the trip was curtailed when he was admitted into 
hospital. An agreement couldnt be reached.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions, which make up the contract between Mr B and Ageas, set 
out when a claim will and will not be covered. Mr B says his trip was curtailed as he was 
unable to continue with the ski course and so Ageas should pay the costs which he was 
unbale to make use of. These include the remainder of the ski course instructor fees and a 
medical consultation in the UK after his return.
Our investigator has explained that she thinks Mr B travelled when he shouldnt have done 
so. Mr B disagrees and says he travelled for education reasons and this was allowed. 
The policy has the following general exclusion:
We will not pay losses arising out ofthe breaking of or failure to comply with any 
law or local-by law in the country you are visiting and in respect of this policy, UK 
Law.
Our investigator has set out the guidance from the relevant 2021 lockdown in quite some 
detail so I wont repeat that here. In summary, there was a national lockdown in place in the 
UK during Mr Bs booking and travel dates. People were asked to stay at home and were 
only allowed to leave for specific reasons including attending education or childcare for those 
eligible. Schools and colleges had moved to remote learning except for children of key 
workers. These rules became law. 
Mr B says that as he was attending a ski instructor course, this falls within the specific 
reasons including attending for education purposes. He says he acted within the law and 
was permitted to travel through the airport and if this had been illegal, he would have been 
turned away. In addition, the insurance was sold for this specific purpose.
I dont intend on making a finding on whether Mr Bs travel was permitted. And thats 
because even if I agree with Mr B that his travel abroad was permitted, I dont think Ageas 
needs to do any more than it has already done. Ill explain why. 
Mr B is claiming for his unused course costs and the private treatment he had in the UK.
Treatment in the UK
Section 1 of the policy confirms when Ageas will pay for emergency medical, repatriation 
and associated expenses. It says Ageas will pay for costs incurred as a result of injury and: 
 all emergency medical treatment which is considered medically necessary by the 
local treating doctor and cannot await your return to your usual country of residence, 
including the cost of medication and drugs, and the cost of hospitalisation.
It also says:
We will not paye) for treatment or surgery: in the United Kingdom or your normal 
country of residenceor which is carried out or continued to be carried out after the 
expiry of this insurance.
Mr Bs certificate of insurance confirms his policy start date was 13 January 2021 and the 
end date was 24 April 2021.
Based on the above terms and exclusion, any treatment in the UK is excluded. In addition, 
the treatment took place after the insurance had ended. So I dont think it was unfair for 
Ageas to decline cover for this treatment.
Unused course costs as a result of curtailment
Curtailment is defined in the policy as follows:
means cutting your trip short by early return to your normal place of residence, or 
your admission to hospital as an in-patient.Trip is defined as:
Any trip, journey or excursion.
Section 3 of the policy is the cancellation and curtailment section which says Ageas will pay 
up to the final invoice cost of the trip if Mr B has to curtail all or part of his trip as 
recommended by a local doctor because of injury or illness.
This section says:
 Please note...curtailment losses will be based on a pro-rata of the full holiday cost 
and calculated from the day you depart to return to the United Kingdom, or your 
usual country of residence, or you are hospitalised as an in-patient.
Section 15 called Ski pack says:
We will pay up to the amount shown on the schedule and in all following an event 
giving rise to a claim under this insurance which occurs during the period of 
insurance for the pro rata unused proportion of ski pass, equipment hire, tuition, 
guiding fees, or course fees in the event of loss or theft of your ski pass or you being 
unable to ski following an accident or illness, as confirmed in writing  by a local 
doctor.
Mr B had his accident on 20 February 2021 and was seen in hospital. He had an operation 
on 24 February 2021 and was discharged on 25 February 2021. He then continued with his 
trip. He wasnt hospitalised as a result of his injury until his operation. And so he lost one day 
of his trip as an inpatient. 
Curtailment means cutting a trip short. Mr B didnt return to the UK as he decided to stay 
abroad. He has explained that for the first week he was resting and then later on, he left his 
accommodation for food and physiotherapy sessions. He gradually started meeting friends 
although he was still unable to ski. 
If Mr B had returned home then his trip would have been curtailed, or if hed remained in 
hospital for the entire remainder of his trip, I may have considered his trip to have been 
effectively curtailed. But he was in hospital for one night and then returned to his 
accommodation. He continued to see his friends and didnt return until his original return 
date although he was unable to ski. As his trip continued, the curtailment section doesnt 
apply. 
Mr B had paid a total of almost £9,000 for his course of which £2,940 was unused, as 
confirmed by the ski company.
Ageas said the trip hadnt been curtailed as he hadnt spent all the time after the accident in 
hospital and didnt come home sooner than planned. 
Mr B said he wasnt able to come back sooner as he was in a sling and only had the use of 
one arm. But I havent seen any medical evidence to show that Mr B shouldnt return home 
as a result of his injury. Or that assistance couldnt have been arranged to help him return 
home.
Ageas paid Mr B £500 for unused course fees under the ski pack section. Even if Mr Bs 
curtailment claim was accepted under the curtailment section, he would only be entitled to a 
one-day equivalent as he was an inpatient for one day. I dont see any reason to depart from the terms and conditions in the circumstances of this 
case. And as Mr B received £500 under the ski pack section, I cant fairly ask Ageas to pay 
any further costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman