The complaint  
Mrs C is legally represented. Her complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) breached its 
duty of care towards her  as a Lloyds banking customer/clien t  when she sought its 
assistance in securing a high interest deposit arrangement for her capital in 2017.  
What happened  
Mrs Cs solicitors made submissions whi ch, alongside expert evidence in support of the 
compensation she claims, set out the basis for her complaint. In the main, her solicitors said:  
Mrs C did not have a financial adviser and did not have an objective related to
speculation on investments. I nstead she had a Personal Banking and Advice
Manager (PBAM) at Lloyds and her objective was to generate income from her
capital through a high interest deposit -based  arrangement.
She was/is a High Net Worth (HNW) individual. Her objective arose from  the
following changes of circumstances in 2017  she sold her business ........................ 
............................................................................................................................. .........
......................... .............................................................................................................
.................................................... ; so an alternative source of income  a 
significantly high level of income (to match the level of earned income she was 
accustomed to)  was required; instead of putting the sale proceeds at risk within an 
investment she opted for the relative safety of a deposit -based arrangement; so her 
objective was to generate the income she needed through interest earned, at the 
highest available rate, on the deposited sale  proceeds.  
The sale proceeds .........................................  were realised around late February 
2017. Prior to this, and with full instructions on Mrs Cs circumstances and 
objective, the PBAM had advised her to open a Lloyds High Interest Cheque 
Account (HICA) and a Lloyds Instant Access Investment Account (IAIA)  which 
she did. The proceeds were initially deposited in  the HICA, then they were promptly 
moved into the IAIA where they remained, from late February 2017 and until events 
in 2019.  
Mrs C engaged in ongoing discussions and correspondence with the PBAM, from
the outset, in pursuit of the best possible interes t rate for her deposit. In the course of
doing so, she made explicit enquiries about offshore arrangements and, in particular,
those available in Jersey. The PBAM had previous working experience offshore (in
Gibraltar) and had contacts/connections in Lloyd s Jersey operations. Despite the
clarity of Mrs Cs objective and of her repeated enquiries about Jersey, the PBAM
consistently gave her the impression that there were no viable alternatives in Jersey
and/or that any such alternatives would be unduly comp licated and difficult to
achieve. Evidence of cross correspondence between them shows this. As a direct
result, and because Mrs C wanted to remain loyal to Lloyds, her capital remained  in
DRN-2913640the IAIA earning interest at the rate of  0.35% per year. This continued until 2019.  
Around April 2019 Mrs C decided to investigate the alternatives available in Jersey
herself. The PBAM was initially reluctant to introduce her to his contacts in Jersey,
but he eventually did so. After meeting with said contact  at Lloyds in Jersey  and
after her investigation into alternatives in Jersey, she realised that the PBAM had
misinformed her since 2017. She learnt that it was relatively easy, as a UK resident,
to open an offshore account in Jersey; that Lloyds in Jersey could have offered her,
since 2017, a better interest rate for her capital than she received from the IAIA; that
the capital she could have allocated to such an offshore account with Lloyds in
Jersey would not have been limited to £5 million  she could have deposited more;
and th at the deposit period would not have been limited to nine months  she could
have maintained a deposit in the account for much longer. These discoveries stood
contrary to what the PBAM had told her since  2017.
As a result of her trip to and enquiries in  Jersey, Mrs C secured an offshore deposit
account arrangement with Lloyds in Jersey at the interest rates of 1.1% (for the
investment account) ................................................................................................... 
............ ...................................................... ; she also secured an offshore deposit 
account arrangement with Coutts in Jersey at the interest rate of 1.7% ................... 
........................................................................ ........................................ . 
The expert evidence that has been presented  from Mrs Cs accountant  sets out
the facts and calculations upon which she claims compensation for a loss of  around
£140,000 in interest she could have earned from  a Jersey -based offshore deposit
arrangement between 2017 and 2019, but for the PBAMs wrongdoings. There is
also a claim for compensation in the amount of around £27,000 arising from
mortgage interest payments (between 2017 and 2018) made on a property ow ned by
Mrs C that could have been avoided  the PBAM gave her unsuitable advice in 2017
not to discharge the mortgage, when she could have, so she continued to pay the
mortgage interest until 2018 when she consulted her accountant about the matter
and was advised to discharge the mortgage  which she  did.
Lloyds disputes the complaint. Its response letter confirms that it arranged a payment of  
£300 to Mrs C to complement its apology for customer service problems she faced (with 
regards to its handling of h er complaint and with regards to its ongoing banking service). 
However, in terms of the complaint summarised above, Lloyds position is that the PBAM 
followed due procedure which limited the advice, if any, he could give on bank account 
options, that he di d not mislead Mrs C but gave her information from which she could have 
made an informed decision and that he was instrumental in using his contacts in Lloyds 
Jersey for her benefit and to achieve the solution she sought.  
One of our investigators looked in to the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She was not persuaded that advice was given by the PBAM to Mrs C, so she 
considered that the question of whether (or not) advice was suitable is redundant. She also 
noted that the PBAM denies adv ising on Mrs Cs mortgage issue and that as there is also 
a lack of evidence of advice in this respect it is difficult to make a finding on the matter.  
Mrs C and her solicitors disagreed with this outcome and they made their respective 
submissions to the effect. Initially, Mrs C mainly said:  
In order to simp lify her case, she withdraws her banking service -related claim and
she does the same with regards to the mortgage advice related  claim. It should also be noted that her engagement with the PBAM did not reach the point of 
a form al recommendation, so her complaint is not about advice  even though, as a 
matter of fact, advice was given to her by the PBAM. Instead, it is about Lloyds 
provision of information, which it concedes it can do and that it  did. 
 
 Her complaint is that Lloyds misinformed her and unreasonably withheld information 
that was directly relevant to her enquiries; and that, by doing both, Lloyds breached 
its regulatory obligations towards her as set out by the regulators Principles 1, 2, 5 , 6 
and 7. 
 
 This service need not accept her account of events  even though it is a sincere and 
true account  instead there is ample documentary evidence, with which her account 
of events is consistent, establishing key elements of her complaint. Those  elements 
being  her income generating objective, the PBAMs awareness of it, her ongoing 
engagement with him for the purpose of resolving that objective, her express 
enquiries about finding a solution in Jersey and his express responses and 
comments on t hat prospect. Relevant correspondence evidence [from which Mrs C 
quoted within her submissions] proves that the PBAM misinformed her in relation to 
her enquiries and withheld information directly relevant to those enquiries  as set 
out in her solicitors main complaint submissions. In the face of such clear evidence, 
her complaint must surely be  upheld.  
 
Her solicitors then added, mainly, as follows:  
 
 Neither party disputes that Mrs C was dissatisfied with the rate of interest her capital 
earned in the I AIA, that the PBAM was aware of this and that he was also aware she 
was actively looking for a better rate of interest; that he promised in one of his emails 
that if he could find her  a higher rate of interest without compromises  he 
would; that he wa s aware of her enquiries about Lloyds in Jersey; that he had a 
regulatory duty to have due regard to her interests and to treat her fairly; and that the 
PBAM did not inform Mrs C she may be able to achieve a better rate of interest in 
Lloyds in Jersey than  he could offer in the HICA and IAIA, despite his full awareness 
that she may be able to do  so. 
 
 It is a matter of fact that when, in 2019, Mrs C discovered better rates of interest 
in Jersey she reacted positively and without delay by moving her capital  there.  
 
 There should be no confusion over the fact that Mrs C s access related requirement 
of the deposit -based arrangement at the time was to avoid withdrawal penalties and 
to be able to use some of her capital within the initial nine months in order to pay a 
tax liability that arose from the business sale. This did  not set a minimum or desired 
deposit term within her  objective.  
 
The matter was referred to me and I reached the preliminary conclusion that the complaint  
as simplified by Mrs C  should be upheld. I was persuaded by her and her solicitors 
submissions and by the available documentary evidence which supports their submissions.  
 
The investigator assisted me in conveying this preliminary view to both parties, alongside 
notice that whilst I was considering an award of £750 to Mrs C for the trouble and upset  
caused to her by Lloyds failed service to her (based on the misinformation and withholding 
of relevant information committed by the PBAM) and whilst I could also consider an award 
for a refund of fees, if any, directly relevant to the failed service, I w as not persuaded by her 
claim for financial loss. I considered it speculative.  Both parties were invited to comment on my preliminary views. Lloyds was also invited to 
provide a response to the submissions from Mrs C and her solici tors which I found 
persuasive. Lloyds does not appear to have responded to or commented on my preliminary 
views or the submissions from Mrs C and her solicitors.  
 
Mrs Cs solicitors commented on my preliminary views, especially with regards to redress. 
They welcomed the news that I was persuaded to uphold the complaint. They reminded me 
that the PBAMs failings were not isolated; that, instead, they were continuous over 27 
months, during which he maintained the misinformation he had given Mrs C and during 
which he continued to withhold information directly relevant to her queries about Jersey that 
he could have given her at the outset; and that Mrs C mitigated her position in the matter as 
soon as she discovered the interest rates available in Jersey.  
 
Mrs C s solicitors disagreed with my preliminary view on her claim for financial loss. They 
argued that there is nothing speculative about it; that it is rooted in the idea of putting her into 
the position she would be in but for Lloyds wrongdoing; that this s ervice awards 
compensation in such circumstances; and that the expert evidence already provides a basis 
to calculate compensation for the loss and Lloyds can be ordered to do the same. They also 
made a claim, on Mrs Cs behalf, for the recovery of legal an d expert evidence costs from 
Lloyds. In response to my reference to fees, they confirmed that she is unaware of any such 
banking fees.  
 
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I retain my preliminary views on the complaint.  
 
Merits  
 
With regards to the merits of the complaint, I acknowledge that it  is wholly based on the 
PBAMs conduct in the course of Mrs Cs requests for information and enquiries about her 
objective and in the course of his responses  as part of the banking service he provided in 
his personal banking and advisory role  to those requests and enquiries.  
 
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied with the following:  
 
 Available evidence that gives insight into Mrs Cs profile and circumstances in 2017, 
her objective at the time and the personal needs that gave rise to that objective a t the 
time  all as summarised in the background section  above.  
 
 Available documentary evidence showing the PBAMs awareness of Mrs C s 
circumstances and objective in 2017 and, in particular, her need for a deposit -based 
arrangement that offered the highest available interest  rate. 
 
 Available documentary evidence of the enquiries Mrs C put to the PBAM with 
regards to achieving her obje ctive. In particular, the correspondence in which her 
Jersey related enquiries were put to him and, as she and her solicitors have 
asserted, in response to which he appears to have discouraged the  idea.  
 
 That the PBAM had strict  regulatory duties, prominent and unyielding within his role, 
to uphold Mrs Cs best interests in the course of the service he provided to her and 
to treat her fairly in the same  context.   That the PBAM failed to discharge these  duties by failing to do at the outset in 2017 
what he did, seemingly under pressure from Mrs C, in  2019.  
 
The crux of Mrs Cs case is not complicated. Her circumstances, following the sale of her 
business, were quite clear and relatively straightforward. They were known to the PBAM. 
Her need for income could have been met by exploring investments but there was nothing 
controversial in her preference to avoid speculation on investments and to instead explore 
high interest deposit -based arrangements  the hi gher the available rate of interest the 
better, given the significant level of income she required and, in simple terms, in order to do 
justice to the significant amount of capital that was to be deposited. All of this was known to 
the PBAM.  
 
Mrs Cs case does not even require consideration of whether (or not) the PBAM should 
have volunteered information about alternatives in Jersey. He was asked specifically, and 
repeatedly, about finding a solution for Mrs C in Jersey. He had previous and relevant 
working  experience in an offshore banking jurisdiction (in Gibraltar) and he had professional 
contacts in Lloyds in Jersey. What he ought reasonably to have done is share with Mrs C 
any relevant knowledge obtained from his offshore banking experience and, most 
importantly, he should have informed her, as much as he could, about alternatives available 
in Jersey and referred her to his contacts in Lloyds in Jersey in response to her first query in 
that respect. She should not have had to repeat that query in order f or him to give such a 
meaningful response.  
 
The PBAM was supposed to provide a personal banking service to Mrs C. His contacts 
were part of the Lloyds group of companies and she was an existing Lloyds banking 
customer. A referral would have been (in 2017)  and was (in 2019)  essentially internal, 
within the wider Lloyds entity. On balance, I consider it indefensible that he failed to do that 
and withheld information about that from Mrs C in 2017 and over the following two years. 
Even without the misrepres entation that Mrs C alleges  which, on balance, I also find in 
favour of given that the PBAM appears to have given her the overall impression that the 
offshore or Jersey option was not viable, when it was  I consider that this matter of 
withholding very relevant information that he could and should have readily shared with her 
at the outset is enough to uphold her  complaint.  
 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  
 
Redress  
 
The simplified complaint  without the issues that Mrs C has withdrawn  is only about what I 
will refer to as the Jersey issue . I consider that she should receive the amount of £750 from 
Lloyds in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to her by the PBAMs failings in the 
personal banking servic e he provided to her. I am satisfied that this is broadly consistent with 
the sort of awards for trouble and upset made in this service in comparable cases, and that it 
is a reasonable amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience she faced as a result of the 
failed service. This award is distinct and separate from the £300 that Lloyds says it has 
already paid her for other service failings on its part.  
 
The experts calculations for Mrs Cs claim of financi al loss have been competently 
presented. However, it remains the case that the basis for the claim does not persuade me.  
 
It is Mrs Cs evidence that, from the outset and up to 2019, she sought to remain loyal 
to Lloyds and to achieve a solution to her obj ective through Lloyds. Nevertheless, it is 
also within her evidence that, from or around the outset, she made enquiries beyond 
Lloyds. There is evidence of her sharing with the PBAM information on interest rates 
available,  through a third -party bank (UBS), from other banks and from high interest deposit accounts 
they offered  the UBS alternatives . Within this information were options that offered better 
rates of interest than her deposit was earning in the IAIA.  
 
In the context o f such evidence, the argument that Mrs C incurred a financial loss  in the 
form of lost interest earning opportunity  that would not have happened but for the PBAMs 
failings is speculative or arguably without merit. In either case, a compensation award 
cannot reasonably be justified.  
 
It is possible that had Mrs C been referred to Lloyds in Jersey at the outset she might have 
moved her capital there immediately, but I am not persuaded to conclude that this was 
probable . I note evidence that the interest rates Lloyds in Jersey could have offered in 
February 2017 (for 12 months) and then in February 2018 (for another 12 months) are not as 
high as those it offered her in April 2019  the experts calculations refer to 0.50% in the 
current account prior to Au gust 2018 and then 0.75% thereafter; and to 0.85% in what 
appears to be the investment account for both 12 months periods (as opposed to 1.1% from 
April 2019).  
 
Importantly, the UBS alternatives offered arguably comparable rates (at least on a gross 
basis,  prior to deduction of UBS 0.25% introducers fee), and they were better than what the 
IAIA offered. However, Mrs C did not move her capital at the time. She could argue that this 
was because of her loyalty to Lloyds, but Lloyds International was one of t he banks she 
could have been introduced to in the UBS alternatives and it offered one of the highest rates 
at 0.80%. It appears that this would have served her objective and her loyalty to Lloyds, but 
she did not use this option at the time. The reason(s) why are unclear, but the conclusion 
that follows is that, overall, it does not appear certain or probable that, but for the PBAMs 
failings, Mrs C would have moved her capital in 2017 in the way she did in 2019. On 
balance, I retain the view that the notio n is speculative.  
 
In the alternative, it could be argued that Mrs Cs claim for compensation for financial loss is 
without merit because she had a duty to mitigate her position earlier than 2019 but did not do 
so. The UBS alternatives offered her higher i nterest rates than her capital was earning in the 
IAIA, yet she did not use any of those alternatives at the time. The duty she had to mitigate 
was not diluted by her sense of loyalty to Lloyds. Her objective was her priority and any such 
loyalty does not amount to justification for foregoing the chance of a better rate of interest 
that could have better served her objective  and avoided most or all the lost interest she 
now claims. Lloyds could therefore argue, reasonably in my view, that any financial lo ss 
incurred was wholly or partly self -inflicted.  
 
In reaching the above findings, I am mindful that Mrs C  could say she was discouraged by 
the PBAM from exploring the UBS alternatives further. However, I do not consider that 
evidence shows the PBAM had such a level of influence over her at the time  evident from 
the fact that she exercised her discretion to find the UBS alternatives on her own in 2017 
and from the fact that she chose, against the PBAMs comments, to explore what was 
available in Jersey in 2019.  
 
I do not uphold Mrs Cs claim for compensation for financial loss.  
 
I also do not uphold her claim  for costs. As I said above, her case is not complicated and, as 
her solicitors have acknowledged, Lloyds could be ordered to carry out the relevant 
calculations [if compensation for lost interest was to be awarded]. In this context, I do not 
consider that  her solicitors representation and her expert evidence were requirements for 
the complaint. I acknowledge that both have been helpful, but they were not necessary.  
Costs awards are made in this service only in exceptional circumstances and I do not find 
that Mrs Cs case has presented such circumstances.  Putting things right  
I order Lloyds to pay Mrs C £750 for the trouble and upset caused to her. It is common for 
this service to consider a refund of fees paid for a firms servic e where there has been a 
failing in or within that service. There is no call to consider such a refund in this case 
because Mrs C has confirmed unawareness of any fees being charged, so there is no 
evidence of fees to consider.  
My final decision  
For the reasons given above (and in my preliminary view) I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and 
I order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay her £750 for the trouble and upset caused to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accep t or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.  
Roy Kuku  
Ombudsman  