DRN-1662521
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Savvy Claims Ltd dealt with his claims for mis-sold payday loans. 
What happened
Mr H originally instructed Savvy to deal with four claims for a mis-sold payday loan. The 
claim against Lender P was successful, but the other claims are still ongoing.
Mr H has complained that Savvy received the compensation from Lender P but theyve kept 
it all instead of passing it on to him. He also complained they told him to stop making 
payments to Lender S, which resulted in a default being registered against him; and that 
they havent kept him updated with the claims against Lender U or Lender L.
Our investigator found Mr H was entitled to £644.32 from the claim against Lender P (after 
Savvy had deducted their fees). Savvy received this compensation in May 2019, but they 
havent paid Mr H his compensation. So she said they should do this, and pay Mr H interest 
from when they received the money from Lender P to when they pay it to Mr H.
While the investigator couldnt say that Savvy had told him not to pay Lender S, she found 
that Savvy hadnt progressed the remainder of Mr Hs claims. Because of the time that had 
passed, and the amount of chasing Mr H had done, she recommended that Savvy also pay 
Mr H £250 to recognise the trouble and upset these delays had caused.
Mr H agreed with the investigator, but Savvy didnt respond. So this case has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Despite Savvy having a regulatory obligation to do so, they havent provided any evidence or 
comments in relation to the investigation. So my decision is based on the evidence and 
comments provided by Mr H only. Where appropriate, Ive drawn adverse inferences from 
Savvys refusal to provide evidence.
When Mr H instructed Savvy, they said theyd charge a fee of 35% plus VAT on any 
successful claims. The claim against Lender P was successful on 29 May 2019, and Mr S 
was awarded £1,110.89. He accepted the offer the same day and Lender P sent the award 
direct to Savvy. Savvy were entitled to deduct their £466.57 fee from this award, meaning 
they needed to pay Mr H the remaining £644.32.
But they didnt. Mr H gave Savvy his bank details and Ive seen the statements from his 
account from 25 May 2019 to 14 January 2020. These dont show the payment of £644.32 from Savvy (or a payment of £1,110.89 from Lender P). So I agree that Savvy have provided 
a poor service by not paying the award to Mr H.
But I havent seen anything to show me that Savvy told Mr H to stop paying Lender S. And, if 
theyd have done that, I wouldve expected them to tell Mr H not to pay any of the lenders, 
not just one of them. I have seen that, on 13 May 2019, Mr H forwarded an email from 
Lender S to Savvy, where he was warned of arrears and a potential default if he didnt make 
payment. Mr H asked Savvy for advice, because he said theyd told him not to pay Lender S.
Lender S served Mr H with a default notice and, on 20 June, he again asked Savvy for 
advice as to what to do. The default notice said Mr H needed to clear his arrears by 2 July 
otherwise a default would be issued. The arrears werent cleared and the default was issued 
on 25 July.
Mr H had asked Savvy for advice on paying Lender S on at least two occasions, and Savvy 
didnt provide this. I wouldve expected them to respond to Mr Hs requests, telling him 
whether he needed to pay or not, and updating him on his claim. Even though they didnt 
respond, Lender S had made it clear to Mr H what would happen if he didnt pay. And in the 
absence of any response from Savvy to his requests for advice, he chose not to pay. So, 
while I can hold Savvy responsible for not giving the requested advice, I cant hold them 
responsible for Lender S defaulting Mr Hs account for non-payment.
In relation to his remaining claims, on 10 April 2019 Savvy wrote to Mr H and said claims 
take on average 4 to 12 weeks. In a different letter the same day they said hed have a 
response to his claims within 56 days. Both of these timescales have now passed, so Id 
reasonably expect Mr Hs claims to have been concluded. But theres no evidence that 
Savvy have progressed them.
Savvy have been given ample opportunity to provide this evidence. So, Im taking it that 
Savvy cant provide evidence the claims have been progressed because they havent 
progressed the claims. And because of this, if Mr H wanted to cancel his claims and do them 
himself, or ask another company to make them for him, I wouldnt expect Savvy to charge 
any cancellation fees.
Putting things right
Savvy must to pay Mr H the £644.32 portion of the award from Lender P hes entitled to. 
They must also pay him 8% annual simple interest on this amount, calculated from the day 
they received the payment from Lender P to the day they pay Mr H.
Mr H has also been caused trouble and upset by Savvy not responding to his requests for 
advice on paying Lender S, and by not progressing the remainder of his claims.  Because of 
this Savvy should also pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Savvy Claims Ltd. To 
resolve this complaint they must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman