DRN-1549965
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) settled a claim made 
by a third party against his motor insurance policy following an accident he wasnt involved 
in. 
All references to Calpe include its agents. Also Mr Ms complaint was brought to us by a 
representative but for ease I will refer to her comments as Mr Ms.
What happened
In May 2019 a third party made a claim against Mr Ms motor insurance policy saying that Mr 
M had ran him off the road and caused him to collide with a barrier. Mr M told Calpe that he 
was aware of the incident but that he had made no contact with the third party and that the 
third party had collided with a barrier because he was speeding and lost control. 
Calpe initially denied liability on Mr Ms behalf but after it carried out some investigations, it 
decided to deal with the third party claim on a without prejudice basis. That is, it decided to 
settle the third party claim without admitting liability on Mr Ms behalf. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this and complained. Calpe didnt change its view and said that an 
engineers report said that Mr Ms car had some damage and that this was consistent with 
the accident. It also said that if the matter went to court Mr M would ultimately be held liable. 
Mr M was unhappy with Calpes response and complained to us. He said that when Calpe 
first inspected his car it found no damage but then inspected it again by which time he had 
been involved in a separate incident, which took place on 4 June 2019, in which his car had 
been written off. He said the engineer used this as a reason for Calpe to settle the third party 
claim. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said he found no evidence that two inspections had been carried out on Mr Ms vehicle. He 
added that there was no evidence to show that there was a second incident- other than a 
photo that Mr M provided which had no date and which therefore couldnt be taken into 
account. He also said that the third party provided photos of Mr Ms car to its insurer in 
May 2019- before the second incident- showing damage which the engineer said was 
consistent with the accident circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In February 2020 he said he 
would check to see if there was CCTV footage available. Mr M was told by our investigator 
that the complaint was going to an ombudsman but, to date, Mr M hasnt provided any 
further evidence. I therefore think I can now proceed with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Like most motor insurance policies Im aware of, Mr Ms includes a term which says that 
Calpe can take over and conduct the settlement of any claim made against his policy. This 
term isnt unusual and we also dont consider it to be unfair as it enables insurers to settle 
claims that might otherwise fail, and helps to minimise costs. We therefore think insurers are 
entitled to rely on this term as long as they act fairly and reasonably when doing so. 
On 20 May 2019 Calpe was notified of the incident, which had taken place two days earlier, 
by the third party insurer.  The third party said that he was established on the main road 
when Mr M came out of a junction without stopping and that when the third party sounded 
his horn Mr M responded by throwing objects at his car. The third party also said that Mr M 
then collided with his car and caused him to lose control and hit a barrier. Calpe got in touch 
with Mr M a day later but he denied that he was involved in the incident or that he threw 
anything at the third party. He said the third party was speeding and eventually lost control 
and hit a barrier. Mr M said the third party was swearing at him and that because of his 
behaviour Mr M didnt stop after the third party collided with the barrier. When asked if his 
car had pre-existing damage, Mr M said that there was a small dent to the front wing and 
some rust on the bonnet.
Calpe didnt admit liability and instructed an investigator to interview Mr M and also arranged 
for his car to be inspected. According to the engineers report the inspection took place on 
12 June 2019, after the second incident Mr M said he was involved in. The engineers report 
says that the car is a total loss and contains photographs of Mr Ms car which show 
substantial damage to the front left wheel arch. They also show the left had side of the 
bumper hanging off the car and the front tyre being flat. The engineer subsequently said that 
the damage to Mr Ms car was consistent with the accident but that it was difficult to tell as 
the subsequent damage was to the same area. 
As I said above, Mr M maintains that the damage in the engineers report was caused by a 
subsequent accident which happened days after the first incident. He provided a photograph 
of his car being towed which he says was taken after the second accident- where he lost 
control of the car and hit the curb of a central reservation. I think the damage in this 
photograph is the same as in the damage in the engineers report- at least as far as the front 
wheel arch, bumper and tyre are concerned. Nevertheless, as our investigator said the 
photograph is undated so its not possible to say when it was taken. Also Mr M hasnt 
provided any evidence in support of this second incident having taken place, such as a 
receipt from the recovery agent or a police report (Mr M said he was breathalyzed at the 
scene). To date, no such evidence has been provided.
The third party provided photographs to its insurer of what looks like Mr Ms car with two 
sizeable dents to the front left wheel arch and a large chip near the bumper where the paint 
has come off. These photographs were provided to the third party insurer on 30 May 2019. 
This was before Mr Ms alleged second accident. I think this is persuasive evidence that 
Mr Ms car was damaged in the first accident. Bearing this in mind, I think it was fair and 
reasonable that Calpe then decided to deal with the third party claim. This is because this 
went against what Mr M told Calpe- which was that there was no collision between the two 
cars. Furthermore, Calpes engineering expert said the damage was consistent with the 
accident and there is no other expert evidence, as far as I know, to contradict this.
I appreciate Mr M told Calpe there was pre-existing damage to the front wing of his car 
which was there when he bought the car but he only mentioned a small dent. In my opinion 
this doesnt match the damage on the photograph provided by the third party. I also think it is 
unlikely that the third party would have been able to take such a close up photograph of 
Mr Ms car if they hadnt come into contact bearing in mind Mr M says he didnt stop at any point. Also Mr M told us that when Calpe first inspected the car it found no damage, which 
contradicts what he told Calpe about the car having pre-existing damage. Like our 
investigator, Ive only seen evidence of one inspection but if there was a previous inspection 
Calpe would have noted that there was some damage and Mr M would have been aware of 
this and not under the impression that no damage had been found. And even if Mr Ms car 
did suffer further damage in a second incident, as Ive said above, Im satisfied that the 
photos the third party took show that Mr Ms car suffered some damage in the accident.
As I said above Calpe admitted liability on a without prejudice basis after it completed its 
investigations- therefore enabling Mr M to pursue his own claim if he wishes to. I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably in doing so bearing in mind the evidence available. For the same 
reason, I also think it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to say that if the case went to court it 
was more likely than not that it would lose. I think its actions were therefore reasonable and 
also minimised the costs involved as a potentially unsuccessful court trial would have been 
more costly. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman