DRN-3625768
The complaint
D - a business, complains National Westminster Bank Plc provided poor service when its 
business loan rates were due to be renewed. 
What happened
Mr L represents D so I will refer to him alongside D in this complaint. 
NatWest sent D a letter on 15 January 2021 explaining that the interest rate on its business 
loan was due to expire. This letter set out the new rates available to D and that they would 
expire on 25 February 2021. Mr L says this letter was received on 19 January 2021 and he 
contacted NatWest who informed him his business relationship manager would be in touch 
to discuss the options. 
NatWest says the relationship manager contacted Mr L several times between 4 and 25 
February 2021 to discuss and finalise the new interest rates. Mr L initially says he received 
no contact from the relationship manager, but then explained he did receive some contact 
and he requested details of the rates on offer as he had lost the initial letter of 15 January 
2021.
Mr L was informed the rates outlined in the letter of 15 January 2021 had expired during 
conversation on 26 February 2021. Mr L raised a complaint at this point about having to go 
with the higher rate of 3.96% for the business loan rather than the previous, lower rate on 
offer of 3.54%. NatWest looked into this initial complaint and issued its final response on    
10 March 2021. This response did not cover the points raised in this complaint. 
Following this initial complaint Mr L raised additional concerns, specifically about the service 
he received from the business relationship manager and her lack of contact. NatWest 
considered Mr Ls points and explained it had no record of Mr L contacting NatWest in period 
up to the rate expiry to discuss the options. However, as a goodwill gesture it offered D £300 
compensation.
Mr L remained unhappy with NatWests response and referred the complaints he had raised 
to our service. NatWest objected to our service looking into the first complaint Mr L raised 
regarding the interest rate change as it said the complaint had been referred to our service 
too late. This complaint has been dealt with under a separate decision. 
NatWest did agree that our service could consider the second complaint Mr L raised about 
the service D received from the business relationship manager. An Investigator reviewed the 
complaint and found that NatWest had provided a reasonable service and, in any event the 
£300 award recognised any issues D had experienced. 
Mr L, on behalf of D remained unhappy, and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision will focus on the issues D has raised in relation to the service it received from 
its business relationship manager. And Im sorry to hear of the issues D has experienced 
with its loan rate renewal. Mr L says NatWest has acted unfairly and its poor customer 
service has had a negative impact on D. Mr L argues that further compensation is due, and 
the lower rates initially offered should be honoured as a result of the business relationship 
managers poor service. Based on the evidence I have seen; I dont think NatWest needs to 
take any further action. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that NatWest issued a letter to D explaining that the current fixed rate was 
due to end. The letter explained that after the current interest rate had expired, the loan 
would move to the variable rate of interest. But the letter also said alternative interest rates 
were available and contact could be made with the business relationship manager. 
Mr L says he contacted NatWest on 4 and 18 February 2021 as he had mislaid the letter of 
15 January 2021 which outlined the options for D. NatWest says it has no record or Mr L 
making contact about the new rates until 26 February 2021. 
There are a number of discrepancies between Mr Ls version and timeline of events and 
NatWests records. Ultimately when considering what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I must take into account all these conflicting details to decide what I think on 
balance, is most likely to have happened and the impact this had on D. 
Ive considered Mr Ls comments in line with the banks records of the contact between him 
and the relationship manager. I can see Mr L contacted NatWest in late January 2021 to 
discuss his options, and he was informed his business relationship manager would be in 
touch. NatWests records also show that the business relationship manager contacted Mr L 
on 4 February 2021 and left a voicemail. I think contact couldve been made sooner with    
Mr L given the deadline, but Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr L made any further contact 
with NatWest. Ive also noted that an email was sent by the relationship manager on 18 
February 2021 and 24 February 2021 explaining Mr L had until 25 February 2021 to decide 
how he wanted to proceed. 
I accept there was some initial delay in contacting Mr L and the contact seemed to increase 
as the deadline approached. However, Mr L also had a responsibility to ensure he returned 
any contact that was made, especially as he says he misplaced the letter of 15 January 
2021. Overall, I think the business relationship took reasonable steps to contact Mr L. So, I 
dont think NatWest needs to award any further compensation for the issues experienced by 
D. 
Mr L and the business relationship manager exchanged emails on 26 February 2021. During 
this exchange Mr L confirmed he wished to go with a 7-year fixed rate at 3.54%, which was 
outlined in the initial letter of 15 January 2021. However, the relationship manager later 
confirmed that this rate was no longer available and a revised rate of 3.96% was on offer. 
I appreciate Mr Ls frustration over this issue, especially as the relationship manager initially 
seemed to indicate the lower rate was still on offer. However, the rates outlined initially were 
subject to variation after 25 February 2021 and as Mr L had only confirmed he wanted to go 
ahead with the rate on 26 February 2021 it was no longer available. The letter of                              
15 January 2021 makes this clear, and I think there was ample opportunity prior to                    25 February 2021 for different rates to be discussed and decided on. So, I dont think 
NatWest needs to honour the initial, lower rates outlined in its letter. 
NatWests investigation of the complaint found that it hadnt acted unreasonably. However, it 
made a £300 goodwill gesture. As explained above, I think there were instances where the 
service provided couldve been better. NatWest hasnt recognised these points, but I think its 
£300 goodwill offer is in keeping with the type of award I would recommend for these 
shortcomings. 
I understand Mr L doesnt think this is enough. Reaching an award for distress and 
inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by their very 
nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. In this case I must 
consider the impact on D, not Mr L. And I think the £300 recognises that the communication 
from NatWest may not have always been as pro-active and clear as necessary. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for D in respect of this complaint. However, it 
can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman