DRN-3036655
The complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Best Risk Management & Financial 
Service Limited (trading as Best Insurance), after the underwriters of his policies failed. 
What happened
Mr E took out an unemployment cover policy sold by Best Insurance, in December 2014. 
The cover was underwritten by an insurer who later withdrew from the market in 2018. As 
the policy administrator, Best Insurance arranged for Mr Es cover to continue via another 
policy with a different underwriter. The new policy was administered by a company Ill refer 
to as T. And Best Insurance continued to collect the premiums for the policy on Ts behalf.
Unfortunately the new underwriter went into administration shortly after the policy was 
transferred. Best Insurance arranged continuation of cover for Mr E. And his policy was 
transferred to one with a new underwriter Ill refer to as Q, in May 2018. T acted as 
administrator for the new policy and Best Insurance continued to collect the policy premiums. 
Mr E later became unemployed and made a successful claim against his policy underwritten 
by Q. And in March 2019, Mr Es policy with Q was cancelled, as Q had gone into liquidation. 
Best Insurance said it was unable to transfer Mr E to any new policy on this occasion, as he 
was unemployed at the time and in the process of a claim, so he didnt meet the criteria for a 
new policy. 
Q was covered by a Guarantee Fund. So, as Mr E had already made a claim which had 
been accepted, his continued monthly benefit payments were paid out from the Guarantee 
Fund. Best Insurance said T  as administrator of the policy underwritten by Q  had 
continued to collect Mr Es premiums after Q went into liquidation, and had paid them on to 
the Guarantee Fund. And it said this was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr E brought a complaint to this service. He said his 
cover had been repeatedly placed with underwriters who left the market, and thought 
appropriate due diligence had not been carried out. And hed not been clearly informed 
about what was happening surrounding his claim and continued cover. He thought the 
premiums he had continued to pay were because his policy had transferred to a new 
underwriter. And if this wasnt the case, he was unclear as to why his premiums had 
continued to be collected for a policy that was cancelled. 
Best Insurance responded to the complaint this service raised on Mr Es behalf. And said it 
thought it had acted correctly in arranging to transfer Mr Es cover to a new policy each time 
the provider failed. And it said it was unable to do this again in 2019 after the failure of Q, 
due to Mr E no longer being in employment. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They didnt uphold the complaint, and 
said Best Insurance didnt need to do anything further. 
Best Insurance accepted the investigators view. However, Mr E said he would like an 
ombudsman to review the case and make a final decision. And so the case has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should set out that the complaint Mr E has brought to this service is against Best 
Insurance. Im aware Mr E is also unhappy with the service he has received from T who 
acted as administrator of his policies from April 2018 onwards. However, this decision will 
focus on the actions of Best Insurance. And Mr E has been made aware he can make a 
separate complaint to T about its service if he wishes. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Best Insurance provided advice, it had 
a responsibility to ensure that the policies it recommended were suitable for Mr E. It also 
needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Having reviewed whats happened, I dont think Best Insurance has acted unfairly. And I say 
this for the following reasons. 
Best Insurance arranged a new policy for Mr E to transfer to each time the existing 
provider failed. And Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Mr E had the option 
to cancel his policy at any time, and did not have to transfer to the new policies 
recommended. 
Ive reviewed copies of the letters sent to Mr E by Best Insurance at the time of the 
changes to each policy, and Im satisfied that these clearly explained the 
circumstances and Mr Es options. 
Best Insurance has provided evidence showing due diligence checks were carried 
out on the policy providers. And I accept that Best Insurance had no knowledge that 
the providers were likely to fail, at the time the policy transfers were arranged. 
Further to this, Im satisfied that the new policies arranged by Best Insurance were 
suitable for Mr E. As when he needed to make a claim against his policy with Q, his 
claim was accepted and paid. 
Whilst its very unfortunate that the providers of Mr Es various policies were unable 
to continue, I cant reasonably hold Best Insurance accountable for this, as I think the 
circumstances were beyond its control. 
Im persuaded the reasons Best Insurance was unable to transfer Mr E to a new 
policy after the liquidation of Q are valid. And Ive seen a copy of a letter which Best 
Insurance sent to Mr E in January 2019, which I think is clear. This explained Q had 
gone into liquidation and said Best Insurance was arranging continuation of cover for 
policyholders with another insurer. However, the letter went on to say that 
policyholders with existing claims, would be unable to transfer their policy to the new 
insurer. And the letter advised to contact T for further information. 
As Best Insurance was not the administrator of the policy with Q, it played no role in 
the payment of Mr Es premiums to the Guarantee Fund  this was undertaken by T. 
And all further communications with Mr E about this, were the responsibility of T, who was the policy administrator. So Im satisfied Best Insurance was not required to take 
any further action or provide Mr E with any further information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Best Risk Management & Financial Service Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman