DRN-3769948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled their
request for a Covid-19 payment deferral on their mortgage account in April 2020. Theyre
unhappy with how Halifax has reported adverse information to the credit reference agencies
from that point onwards.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Halifax. They were maintaining their monthly payments
until December 2018 after which their account fell into arrears.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs M applied for a payment deferral under recently released guidance
from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This guidance was put in place given the
financial effects that the covid-19 pandemic was having on many people. Halifax initially
declined Mr and Mrs Ms request due to their account already being in arrears. Mr and
Mrs M didnt make any payments to their account between April and July 2020 and more
arrears accrued.
Following our involvement Halifax agreed to backdate a payment deferral (commonly
referred to as a payment holiday) for April to July 2020. Our investigator also recommended
that Halifax pay a further £200 compensation in addition to the £100 Halifax already paid Mr
and Mrs M in response to a linked complaint about how a data subject access request was
handled.
Both parties accepted our investigators opinion and the original complaint was closed.
However, Mr and Mrs M have brought a new complaint which is linked to the first, but
focusses on the impact the payment deferrals have had on their credit file. In summary, Mr
and Mrs M disagree that Halifax has properly amended their credit files to reflect the
payment deferral as agreed. They further complained about how Halifax has reported data to
the credit reference agencies (CRAs) in subsequent months. Mr and Mrs M say that as a
result of Halifaxs incorrect reporting theyve been unable to obtain various forms of credit.
Halifax provided more information so our service could consider the additional issues raised.
Our investigator explained why she was satisfied with Halifaxs overall reporting and didnt
think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked for the 
case to be decided by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September 2022 and an extract of my provisional 
findings is below. 
The key facts about the initial complaint raised by Mr and Mrs M aren't in dispute. Halifax
has agreed to amend Mr and Mrs Ms account to reflect a payment deferral for the period in
question. So, the only issue I have to decide, in relation to this matter, is whether what
Halifax has recorded on their credit files is correct and, if not, whether compensation is due
for this mistake. Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs M have said about how
theyve been impacted as a result and how they should be fairly compensated in the
circumstances.
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both
sides involved giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations.
In their response to our investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs M made it clear that theyre
not contesting anything prior to April 2020. They disagree with how data has been reported
by Halifax to the CRAs from April 2020 to November 2021. At which point the outstanding
arrears on their account were capitalised.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a copy of their credit report and a detailed breakdown of what
they think their credit file data should show against whats been reported by Halifax during
this period. When considering all the information available to me, I do believe there are some
inaccuracies with how data has been reported. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by considering the main issue of concern here. That being whether Halifax has
correctly amended Mr and Mrs Ms credit files to reflect the true position of their mortgage
account following the (now) agreed payment deferral period.
In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released specific
guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a maximum of
six-monthly mortgage payments. No adverse information should be reported to the CRAs as
a result.
That means in situations where a customers account wasnt previously in arrears their
account would continue to show as OK on their credit report for the duration of the payment
deferral period. But Mr and Mrs Ms situation was different. They were in arrears beforehand.
I think Halifaxs literal interpretation of the guidance which relates to not reporting any
adverse information during the payment deferral period has in fact disadvantaged Mr and
Mrs M. Ill explain why.
In a situation of no prior arrears, an arrangement would not be reported during the deferral
period. This is because, for a customer with a clear payment history, this would appear as
adverse information against their account.
In Mr and Mrs Ms case, they say, an arrangement would appear more favourably to them as
opposed to what Halifax says it has reported as sustained arrears, which Ive seen, reflects
on their credit file as missed payments.
Halifax says it has reconstructed the account accordingly to remove any arrears that were
originally accrued between April and July 2020. It says that the reason it has continued to
report sustained arrears during that period is because, even after reconstructing the account,
as of March 2020, Mr and Mrs M were in more than three months worth of arrears
(£3,565.15). It says the arrears would continue to be reported in this way until the arrears
balance is cleared or capitalised.
Whilst in theory that appears reasonable, thats not consistent with how Halifax has reported
arrangements in subsequent months. It appears from comparing Mr and Mrs Ms account
transaction history against Halifaxs reporting to the CRAs, there were subsequent months
where the arrears balance exceeded three months and an arrangement was still reported -
for example, in the months of March 2021 and from August 2021 to October 2021.
So, its unclear to me why Halifaxs reporting should disadvantage Mr and Mrs M in those
months where a payment deferral was in place. As explained, in these particularcircumstances it would be favourable to report an arrangement over missed payments - as
they were in no worse situation than in the other months where an arrangement was
reported. I believe Mr and Mrs Ms credit files should be amended to reflect that.
I dont agree their credit file should be amended to reflect a payment holiday as Mr and
Mrs M have suggested. This option is used to reflect the contractual option of taking
payment holidays during the mortgage term. If a consumer has an entitlement to have, or
apply for, a payment holiday, this will usually be set out in the mortgage offer. This is
different to the payment deferral option widely available to most mortgage customers as
directed by the FCA, in response to the pandemic, irrespective of whether their mortgage
terms allow for such an agreement. So, the reporting a of a payment holiday does not apply
here.
Ill now turn my attention to how data has been reported from August 2020 through to
October 2021.
Mr and Mrs M say that had arrangements in place for this duration and that should be
reflected on their credit files. Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont completely agree with
what theyve said. But I have noticed some discrepancies that I invite Halifax to comment on
in response to my provisional decision if it disagrees with what Ive found.
Between August 2020 and December 2020, Mr and Mrs M say they had an arrangement in
place to pay £1,000 which they maintained. Whilst I dont dispute they did pay £1,000 each
month (which was more than their contractual payment), I cant see any arrangement was
agreed during those months. And as their prior arrears remained outstanding (which
exceeded more than 3 months of missed payments) its not unreasonable for Halifax to
report sustained arrears during that time.
I appreciate from Mr and Mrs Ms perspective they were making more than their contractual
payment during those months so they cant understand why their credit report shows X for
missed payments. Im satisfied Halifax has reported their account correctly during those
months as sustained arrears. How the data is interpreted by the CRAs is a separate matter
which they may wish to take up directly with the CRAs. But from considering the other
reporting options available I cant see their circumstances would fall into any other category.
OK means the account is up to date, which it wasnt. For reasons Ive explained there was
no arrangement (or payment holiday) in place. And for obvious reasons none of the other
options such as defaulted or no data would apply either.
So, based on the information available, I cant say Halifax has incorrectly reported data to
the CRAs during this time.
From August 2021 to October 2021 Mr and Mrs M met their agreed payments of £1,260.
Thats been reflected on their credit file accordingly. And, Mr and Mrs M agree with how data
was reported in January 2021. So, Ive specifically considered what happened between
February 2021 to July 2021, as the remaining period in question.
From looking at Mr and Mrs Ms account history, it appears the arrangements during this
period werent always met, but it also appears Mr and Mrs M were doing what they could to
keep up with the agreed payment plans. I say this because when considering all the
payments made during this time, despite them not always being in line with the payment
arrangement terms, they did, through some agreed payments and ad hoc payments, pay the
agreed amount in total.
The combined payment plans from February 2021 to July 2021 required Mr and Mrs M to
pay a total of £6,420. They paid a combined total of £6,430 during that time. It wasnt clearfor me to always see how payments have been allocated to Mr and Mrs Ms accounts. But
when considering the payments made during this period, I do think in fairness an
arrangement should show for the period and Mr and Mrs M not penalised in the
circumstances.
So, to summarise, I do find that Halifax needs to amend how it has reported data to the
CRAs in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms account. An arrangement instead of sustained
arrears/missed payments should be reported during the payment deferral period (April 2020
to July 2020) and subsequently between February 2021 to July 2021.When considering
everything I think this is a fair resolution.
I also agree that the compensation award for the distress and inconvenience caused, as
recommended by our Investigator, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this
because whilst I do think Halifax should amend how some data has been reported to the
CRAs, Im not persuaded the extent to which Mr and Mrs M say theyve been impacted is a
direct result of any incorrect reporting. Despite the amendments, their credit file would still
show arrears which remain on their credit files for six years - visible to credit providers and
other mortgage lenders. This arrears information along with evidence of payment
arrangements being in place is enough to impact any form of lending decision. So, I cant
say they have been declined credit purely because of mistakes Halifax has made. As such, I
wont be asking Halifax to increase its compensation award.
Mr and Mrs M have made reference to a notice of correction being applied to their credit
files. It is their understanding that this should be added by Halifax. I can confirm that a notice
of correction is a short explanatory note that is for a consumer to add to their credit file, if
they chose to do so. It explains why certain information is on their file. Lenders must take
into account the information contained in the notice of correction when a consumer applies
for credit. But a lender doesnt have to agree to lend just because the notice is there. The
lender is entitled to make its own decision on whether to lend. If Mr and Mrs M want a notice
of correction to be placed on their file, they will need to do this themselves.
Putting things right
To fairly settle this complaint, Halifax should do the following:
1. amend Mr and Mrs Ms credit file to show an arrangement instead of missed payments 
during the periods:
April 2020 to July 2020; and
February 2021 to July 2021.
2. Increase its compensation award to £300.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. In Summary Mr and Mrs M disagreed 
with my finding that no amendment should be made to their credit files for the period August 
2020 and December 2020. And, Halifax didnt agree that Mr and Mrs Ms credit files should 
be amended at all.
I re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, including those in response to my
provisional findings. Having done so, I issued a second provisional decision on 10 October 
2022 explaining why I was minded to reach different conclusions as set out in my previous 
provisional decision.
An extract of my revised provisional findings is below:I understand Mr and Mrs M have strong views about this matter. I want to assure them 
Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve provided. However, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by
the parties, and address the crux of the complaint, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Taking into account the relevant
regulation that applies here. This simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs M said that they received misleading
information from Halifax in April 2020. At that time, they were both in full time employment
and could comfortably afford to make their contractual monthly payments and pay extra
towards reducing their arrears. As such, the arrears that accrued thereafter were a
consequence of Halifaxs actions and they shouldnt be penalised for that.
Mr and Mrs M have expressed their thoughts and opinions on lender forbearance protocols,
in particular how payment arrangements work, and also wider credit reporting practices. Ive
considered these points, but I dont agree that their understanding of these various points is
entirely correct.
Lenders are obliged to report true and accurate information to the CRAs in a fair and timely
manner. Its worth pointing out here that Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulty before the
pandemic. Their account had been in arrears since January 2019 and by April 2020 their
arrears balance stood at £3,565.15. As such, data relating to the arrears was reported on Mr
and Mrs Ms credit files throughout 2019 as either missed payments, or arrangements,
where applicable. Their account subsequently remained in arrears until November 2021,
when Halifax agreed to capitalise the arrears balance due to them maintaining their monthly
mortgage payments for at least the previous six months. As such Halifax was required to
continue reporting accurate data throughout that period, which based on the information
available to me, Im satisfied it did for most of the time, as Ill proceed to explain.
It's not in dispute that a payment deferral should have been agreed in April 2020 when
Mr and Mrs M asked for help during the pandemic. I think its important to explain that in
response to the pandemic, the FCA released swift guidance to allow payment deferrals to be
taken with minimal formality  meaning the process should be quick, light touch and
designed to support borrowers. The guidance, released on 20 March 2020, was new to
lenders and published just over a week before Mr and Mrs M called Halifax to discuss their
options during the pandemic. So, in fairness, I can understand why its likely Halifax was still
adapting to things at that time. It has since agreed to put things right by backdating the
payment deferral for the period in question.
Im not satisfied though, that Mr and Mrs M have been impacted to the extent they say,
because of anything that Halifax did.
Mr and Mrs M say that if Halifax explained how a nil payment arrangement or a payment
deferral would impact their credit files, they would have made their monthly mortgage
payments, and more, to reduce their arrears, instead of taking either option. Theyd have
been able to get their account back on track sooner and its due to Halifaxs failing that their
account remained in arrears until November 2021. Im not persuaded that is the case, Ill
explain why.
On 1 April 2020, Mrs M called Halifax specifically asking for a payment deferral due to
anticipated financial difficulty during the pandemic. During the call, Mrs M said they could
possibly make a small contribution towards their contractual mortgage payments. Halifax, atthe time, agreed a nil payment arrangement for two months. It said that for the months of
May and June 2020 it wouldnt expect any payments towards the mortgage, but if Mr and
Mrs M could pay something towards the mortgage they should do, to help keep the arrears
balance down. So, Im satisfied they were aware that they could make additional payments.
But Mr and Mrs M paid nothing at all towards their mortgage until 14 August 2020, even
though the agreement was only in place until 1 June 2020. Furthermore, given that they
proactively called Halifax for assistance, Im not persuaded that they could in fact have made
their payments in full as well as further overpayments to reduce their arrears.
When considering everything, its clear Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulty prior to the
pandemic. Im not convinced their circumstances were any better in April 2020, otherwise its
unlikely they would have called asking for further help at that time. I think its reasonable to
assume that if Mr and Mrs M were able to make payments towards their mortgage they
would have done so to get their account back on track and to help reduce their arrears on
their priority secured debt, which they didnt do, for some months. So, when considering
everything I dont agree that Halifax was responsible for Mr and Mrs Ms arrears situation not
improving. I think had Halifax agreed the payment deferral that Mr and Mrs M asked for at
the time, they would have gone ahead with that option and their account would be in broadly
the same situation as it is now.
How data has been reported to the CRAs since April 2020
April 2020  July 2020
In my proceeding provisional decision, I explained why I thought during the (now agreed)
payment deferral period, Mr and Mrs Ms credit files should show as an arrangement instead
of sustained arrears. Halifax has provided further information and, having reviewed this, its
changed my mind.
Halifax has explained why an arrangement would only be reported in situations where the
customer has adhered to an agreed arrangement to repay arrears on top of their contractual
monthly payment. During the months of April to July 2020, Mr and Mrs M didnt make any
payments towards their mortgage, so I can understand why Halifax isnt obliged to report an
arrangement during that time. And as such, its rationale (as set out previously) around why
sustained arrears would continue to show during that time is therefore logical and
appropriate in the circumstances. So, I wont be directing Halifax to make any changes here.
The covid-19 guidance for lenders said an account shouldnt be reported as being in a worse
position. Mr and Mrs M were already in arrears and this is all that Halifax has continued to
report. Im satisfied this is correctly reported.
August 2020  December 2020
Ive considered everything Halifax and Mr and Mrs M have said in response to my findings
on how data should be reported from August 2020 onwards, but my opinion remains the
same.
Mr and Mrs M say that during this time, they did have an arrangement in place to pay £1,000
per month. They disagree with sustained arrears being reported. They say X for missed
payments indicates no payments were made at all during that time. A 'payment arrangement'
should be reported during this time. Not doing so is impacting their ability to obtain credit
including mortgage deals with other lenders.
Halifaxs contact notes dont show any calls taking place where it was agreed by Halifax that
Mr And Mrs M were to pay £1,000 in those months. I accept Mr and Mrs M were payingaround £30 more than their monthly contractual payments during those months, but in order
for their credit file to reflect an arrangement there would need to be an agreed arrangement,
in place by Halifax, as previously explained. Which I cant see there was.
As such sustained arrears have been correctly reported. Ive already explained why the
other available reporting options would not apply in the circumstances.
February 2021 - July 2021
Halifax says that during this period, there was only an agreed arrangement in place for
March 2021. During the other months Mr and Mrs M made proposals to pay, which is
different to an agreed arrangement and therefore reported differently. On 15 May 2022
Halifax emailed our service with a list of the arrangements in place between 2019 and
September 2021. According to this information several arrangements were in place during
this time, except to cover the month of May when the usual contractual payment was due.
As previously explained through various payments, Mr and Mrs M paid more than what was
agreed during this period  through either the agreed amounts or ad hoc payments. But
overall, they did pay what was they agreed to. As such it its only fair Halifax amends its
reporting to show an arrangement for that period, based on its own definition.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about how the data reported by Halifax can be
interpreted by other creditors. However, my understanding is that mortgage arrears being
reported, as opposed to, an arrangement to pay those arrears, has less impact than they
think. Either way, creditors can see that the customer is in arrears on their secured debt. As
a secured mortgage is considered a priority debt, any adverse information suggesting the
account is in arrears is enough to impact any form of lending decision. I appreciate in their
opinion, an arrangement shows more favourably, when considering the overall position of
their account over the years, Im not persuaded this would make as significant a difference
as they assume.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are concerned that Halifaxs reporting of sustained arrears
reflects on their credit files as missed payments. Halifax is not responsible for how the data it
sends to the CRAs is interpreted and reflected on their credit file, If Mr and Mrs M are 
unhappy about that they need to take that up with the relevant CRAs. Im satisfied Halifax
has reported data correctly between April 2020 and December 2020, so I wont be directing
otherwise. For information I can tell Mr and Mrs M that Halifax, under no circumstances,
would be expected to report that their account was OK from April 2020 through to
November 2021, because that type of reporting options suggests their account was 
up-to-date, which is wasnt as at point during that time, as they remained in arrears for the
duration
Putting things right
To fairly settle this complaint, Halifax should do the following:
amend Mr and Mrs Ms credit file to show an arrangement instead of missed 
payments during the period February 2021 to July 2021; and
Increase its compensation award to £300.
Both parties responded, ultimately saying that they accept the revised provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
that leads me to change my findings. Ive carefully considered again what I said.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my most recent provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
To fairly settle this complaint, Halifax should do the following:
amend Mr and Mrs Ms credit file to show an arrangement instead of missed 
payments during the period February 2021 to July 2021; and
increase its compensation award to £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman