DRN-4423933
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants his car repaired and compensation for his trouble
What happened
Mr S said his car broke down whilst abroad after he drove over an unidentified object in the 
road. Mr S reported this to Aviva. He had the car recovered to a garage where it was 
inspected, and he made a claim on his policy. Aviva had the car recovered to UK where it 
was inspected by its engineers and by an independent engineer. Aviva thought there wasnt 
any impact damage beneath the car. It thought the car had failed due to poor maintenance 
and wear and tear over a period of time. Mr S was unhappy with this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
had reasonably considered the report from Mr Ss garage and it had an independent 
engineer inspect the car. He thought Aviva had considered the evidence and he was 
persuaded that it had reasonably decided to decline the claim.
Mr S replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. He thought Aviva should answer further questions about the cause of the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated and disappointed that Aviva declined his claim. 
Hes explained that this leaves him without a car. And I can understand that this must be a 
difficult situation. Mr S was also unhappy as he thought he had been treated differently due 
to his nationality. But I havent seen any evidence to support this or to show that Aviva has 
treated him differently to its other customers. I can assure Mr S that I have read translations 
of all his submissions.
Aviva declined Mr Ss claim as it thought there wasnt evidence to show that there had been 
a significant impact to the underside of his car that had then led to the engine failure. It was 
satisfied that this was due to poor repairs and wear and tear. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
The evidence that Aviva had to consider was Mr Ss version of events, the report from his 
garage, the report from its own garage, the report from the independent engineer and the 
review by its in-house engineers. I can see that questions were raised about the credibility of 
Mr Ss garages report as the author didnt sign it or add his qualifications. But I can see that 
it is certificated, and Aviva considered it in any case to be fair. So I cant say that this 
prejudiced Mr Ss position. 
This report said that damage to the cars underside had been caused by a collision with a 
large sharp-edged object and this had led to oil-loss and the eventual engine failure. 
Aviva had the car recovered to UK so that it could investigate the claim further. I can see that 
Mr S thought this was a waste of money as he had provided a report from a garage and 
Aviva could have verified this locally. But I think its reasonable for Aviva to investigate a 
claim to see how the damage was caused before settling it. And so I think it was reasonable 
for it to have the car assessed by an independent engineer.
This report was inconclusive. It said:
At the time of our inspection access to the underside of the vehicle was limited, however 
there were no obvious signs of impact damage. We noted that there was oil residue around 
the engine bay and that the engine oil level was low. 
We would recommend that the vehicle is moved to workshop so that it can be placed on a 
ramp and the undertray removed in order to allow an inspection of the underside of the 
engine
And so I think Aviva reasonably had the car further assessed by an engineer at its approved 
repairers. This found that:
The engine shield was in the boot when the car was delivered, there is an access flap which 
is used for gaining access to allow the draining of the oil, this and the complete shield is 
undamaged.
The sump bolt has signs of spanner slip marks on the flats grip marks around the 
circumference and the thread is damaged.
They had started the engine for the vehicle to be placed on the ramp, the engine produces 
large amounts of white smoke and is beyond repair.It is the engineers opinion that the crack to the sump has been caused by the sump bolt 
being over tightened/cross threaded and not by any impact.
Avivas inhouse engineers then reviewed these reports and the photographs provided. And 
so Aviva concluded that the engine fault was caused by ongoing mechanical issues, and 
these were excluded from cover by the policys terms and conditions. I can see that this is 
explained on page 14 of the policy booklet under Exclusions to Section 1:
What we won't pay tor:
 Loss of use, wear and tear, loss or damage which happens gradually, loss of value 
following repair, depreciation, failure of electronics, mechanical breakdown or breakage, or 
tyre damage caused by braking, punctures, cuts or bursts.
Mr S thought Aviva should provide further detailed evidence to support its engineers 
opinions. But Aviva is entitled to rely on a civil standard of proof, not the legal standard a 
court would require. So I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on its expert 
engineers opinions. 
And so I think Aviva reasonably considered all the evidence available and has justified its 
decision that Mr Ss claim isnt covered by the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman