DRN-2540003
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her claim for a damaged
underground pipe under her home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs A contacted AXA to raise a claim for damage to her underground pipes.
Mrs A had called a local drain contractor (H) because of a blocked toilet. H investigated and
told Mrs A about the damage.
H completed a CCTV survey in which it was noted the cause of the blockage was due to a
build-up of fat and grease in the pipe. A crack in the pipe was also highlighted in Hs report
and a repair recommended.
AXA appointed its own drain specialist (D) to review Hs report. AXA then declined Mrs As
claim. It said the blocked pipe was an issue of maintenance due to the build-up of sediment
over time, so it was excluded from Mrs As cover as a gradually operating cause.
AXA also said the crack in the drain wasnt linked to the blocked pipe and there was no
evidence to show it had been caused by a one-off incident. It concluded it was most likely
due to wear and tear, so it couldnt be considered as accidental damage under the policy.
Mrs A complained to AXA and asked it to reconsider its position, but AXA maintained its
decision to decline the claim. Mrs A then referred the complaint to our service. She said the
damage to the pipe must have occurred suddenly as clay pipes arent subject to wear and
tear. She said that if the pipe was left unrepaired, it would cause further damage.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended AXA cover the costs of unblocking
the pipe. She found Mrs A wouldnt have known there was a problem with the pipe until the 
toilet became blocked, so she found it reasonable for AXA to cover this part of the claim. But
she didnt think AXA should pay for the cracked pipe to be repaired, as she couldnt see
anything to suggest it was caused suddenly.
AXA disagreed with our investigators findings. It said the build-up in the drains would have
taken many months if not years and was therefore not a sudden event. It added that the
extent of the blockage suggested the drains hadnt been regularly maintained, so it wasnt
something covered under the policy.
Mrs A responded and said it wasnt possible to dictate how long it would take for grease or
fat to build up in a drain pipe, and that action was taken as soon as a problem became
apparent. Mrs A also maintained her position about the cracked pipe not being down to wear
and tear, and the risk of further damage if it wasnt repaired.
The complaint was passed to me and on 8 January 2021, I set out in my provisional decision 
why I found AXA didnt need to do anything further in relation to this claim. Ive repeated an 
extract below.
There are two parts to this claim  the unblocking of the pipe and the repair to the crack.
AXA has relied on exclusions in Mrs As policy to decline both parts of the claim. So what I
need to determine is whether AXA has fairly relied on these exclusions to decline the claim.
But I also need to consider what Mrs As policy actually covers in relation to pipes and
drains.
Mrs As policy provides cover for the cost of repairing Accidental Damage to: underground
sewers, drains and septic tanks. The policy goes on to define accidental damage as
Damage caused suddenly as a result of an unexpected, unforeseen and non-deliberate
external force.
AXA has also highlighted the exclusion in Mrs As policy which says, We will not pay b) for
loss or damage due to wear and tear or any gradually operating cause and You must
maintain the property insured in good repair. AXA considers the build-up of grease and fat
in the pipe as a gradually operating cause.
Given the policy only covers accidental damage to pipes as defined, I need to consider if
there is any evidence which shows that either the blockage in the pipe, or the crack meet
this definition.
Ive considered the reports provided by both drainage contractors in this case, H and D. The
reports show a number of blockages which have built up over time, which mean they werent
sudden, unintentional, or unexpected. And I can see the crack in the pipe occurs in a
separate section to the blockage, so theres nothing to indicate the two events are related.
Hs report doesnt comment on the cause of the crack in the pipe, and D concludes it is most
likely due to wear and tear.
I havent seen anything to show the blockage happened suddenly or as a result of non-
deliberate external force. Im satisfied it is more likely the blockage was caused by a build up
of sediment over time, as set out in both reports, so it cannot be described as unexpected 
damage, even if it was not expected as such by Mrs A. So I think it was fair for AXA to
decline this part of the claim. And I havent seen any evidence the crack in the pipe was
caused suddenly either, so I think its fair for AXA to decline this part of the claim for the
same reasons.
Ive considered Mrs As comments about the crack not being due to wear and tear. But I
havent seen anything further to support this. Ds report mentions the pipe is likely over 100
years old and says its most likely the crack is down to wear and tear. Im persuaded by this.
In addition, theres nothing in either report to show the crack impaired the function of the pipe
at the time it was inspected. So Im satisfied the cause of the blockage was a build-up of
sediment, and as Ive determined it wasnt accidental damage I dont think AXA needs to do
anything further here.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that either the blockage or crack in the pipe meet the
definition of accidental damage as set out in Mrs As policy. The evidence shows they are
most likely to have been occurring gradually and for some time. And as I cant see that either
event is covered elsewhere in Mrs As policy, Im satisfied AXA have fairly declined the
claim.
AXA responded and agreed with my provisional decision. Mrs A didnt respond or provide 
any further information for me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, in the absence of any new evidence or arguments Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman