DRN-2692175
The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt correctly advised of the charges involved, when he requested 
a payment holiday on his personal loan with Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Loans).
What happened
Mr B has a personal loan with Tesco. In March 2020, he contacted them to let them know 
that he was going to be financially impacted by the ongoing pandemic and he asked for a 
payment holiday for the months of March and April 2020. 
During this call, the associate directed Mr B to complete a request for a payment holiday 
through an online form. However, as Mr B was having technical difficulty doing this, he called 
back a couple of days later and another associate completed it on his behalf. 
At the end of April 2020, Mr B contacted Tesco to query the payment holiday and if he 
needed to do anything further. It was noticed that the holiday hadnt been applied which 
Tesco says is due to delays at that time. It was subsequently actioned for April and Mays 
payments and backdated to March also. 
Mr B then called Tesco again in June 2020 to ask what interest would be charged if the loan 
was extended, rather than the three deferred repayments being made during the original 
term of the loan. Tesco confirmed additional interest would be charged for the period that the 
loan term was extended. Mr B was unhappy and complained to Tesco. 
Tesco said that they should have told Mr B sooner that interest would accrue if the loan term 
was extended and paid him £75 for the inconvenience this caused. They also noticed that a 
late payment marker had incorrectly been applied during the payment holiday and agreed to 
remove this. Mr B didnt think this was a fair resolution to his complaint because he doesnt 
think he should have to pay interest that he wasnt told about. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Tesco had acted fairly and in line with guidance from the regulator regarding how 
Covid-19-related payment holidays should be applied.  
Mr B didnt accept this. He said that Tesco had not explained that additional interest would 
accrue if the loan term was extended. He didnt think he had been treated fairly. As he 
remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B made at least two telephone calls to Tesco in March 2020 and called again in April 
2020, to arrange a payment holiday on his loan, in line with the FCAs Covid-19 temporary 
relief guidance. Mr B has complained that he wasnt made sufficiently aware that if he chose 
to extend his loan in order to pay the arrears, he would be charged additional interest.
Tesco has accepted that this was not made clear to Mr B when he applied for the holiday, in 
either of the calls in March or April. Having been made aware what information was given to  
Mr B and having listened to the calls myself, I agree that Mr B was not made aware that if he 
extended the term, additional interest would be payable. Tesco has confirmed that only the 
initial interest would be charged, if Mr B manages to pay the arrears over the original term. 
I now have to consider what Mr B would have done, had he been given sufficient information 
when he applied for the payment holiday. Mr B made it clear in the calls that he couldnt 
afford the approximately £350 monthly repayments for the loan. He explained he was self-
employed and that his income had been significantly impacted by the ongoing pandemic. 
Tesco should have made it clear to Mr B that if he wasnt able to pay the arrears from the 
holiday during the loan term, additional interest would be charged. However, I am satisfied 
that if Tesco had explained this, Mr B would still have taken the payment holiday. I say this 
because I am satisfied that he wasnt able to make the repayments and would have taken 
the benefit of some extra time to make them without any impact on his credit file. 
The FCAs Covid-19 temporary relief guidance states that interest can continue to be 
charged during the payment holiday. It doesnt state that additional interest shouldnt be 
charged if a loan term is extended to clear arrears, following such a break. I am satisfied that 
Tesco has applied the guidance correctly and fairly. 
Tesco has said that due to delays in applying the holiday, a late payment marker was 
applied in March 2020, which they subsequently removed. They have also paid Mr B £75 for 
the inconvenience of this and not explaining sooner, what additional interest there might be. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that Mr B wouldnt have done anything 
differently and so Tesco do not need to do any more to resolve this complaint. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint to Mr B. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont require Tesco to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve Mr Bs dispute with Tesco  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Loans), 
doesnt need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman