DRN-3040373
The complaint
Company L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to prevent the 
companys loss or help them recover the money they had sent to one of Barclays 
customers, following a scam.
What happened
L provides various training services in Nigeria in collaboration with a company based in the 
UK. They say that the email communication with their UK partner was intercepted by 
fraudsters sometime in late 2019. They didnt realise this and had since been communicating 
with the fraudsters via the fraudsters fake email address. 
In January 2020 L received an email from the fraudsters purporting to be their UK partner. It 
included an invoice for about $50,000 and asked L to pay it to another company (Company 
D). L say they were led to believe that this company was a subsidiary of its UK partner. L 
made the payment as instructed in the invoice in late January 2020. Thus, the payment was 
made to Company D, to their account with Barclays. L discovered the fraud in early February 
and immediately reported it to their bank and Barclays. 
Barclays responded to say that it contacted the beneficiary (Company D) regarding the 
recall, but they refused to give authority to the bank to debit the funds. They said that the 
funds were received in relation to a genuine transaction they have had with their customer 
and therefore they see no reason why they should agree to return the funds. So, Barclays 
suggested L to contact the beneficiary directly to resolve this matter.
L say that neither they nor its UK partner have any business relationship with Company D or 
whoever may have provided the fraudulent account. So, they insist that Barclays should 
return the funds from the beneficiary back to L. 
As no resolution could be reached, L referred their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong and they could not ask the bank to do anything more. In summary they said:
The beneficiarys account had been in operation for several years and there wasnt anything 
unusual in relation to the account activity such that Barclays should have acted upon. 
Further, Barclays swiftly blocked the account and investigated the matter when it was 
contacted by Ls bank. It contacted the beneficiary and later asked for more information on 
our request. The beneficiary defended the claim and were able to show that the payment 
was in relation to an invoice issued by them and so the sum received was expected. 
The investigator said that whilst they were unable to disclose the details regarding this, they 
had reviewed the evidence and could see that Barclays had no reason to doubt the evidence 
provided by their customer. 
Given all of the above, the investigator didnt that the bank could have done more. They said 
that, in the circumstances, L would need to approach Barclays customer about this directly.
L didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They insisted that they have been a victim of 
fraud. They felt that Barclays carried out an one sided investigation in favour of their 
customer despite the evidence presented to it by L. 
L later contacted us to say that they got in touch with Company D and it acknowledged that L 
was a victim of a fraud. Therefore, L asked that Barclays follow up with Company D to 
facilitate a refund.  The investigator put Ls submission to Barclays who in turn contacted 
Company D, but it essentially reiterated its position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I apologise for the length of time L has been waiting for this decision and I thank them 
for their patience. 
Having considered all the available submissions, I agree with our investigator and for 
essentially the same reasons. 
I am sorry to hear that L has been an innocent victim of a callous scam. From their 
perspective I can see why they feel that Barclays should have done more. However, for me 
to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that Barclays has done something wrong here. I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
In this instance, before being advised of the scam, there wasnt anything unusual in relation 
to the transaction that Barclays should have acted upon. Barclays did block the beneficiarys 
account and investigated the matter when it was contacted by Ls bank. Their customer 
defended the claim and were able to show to Barclays that the sum received was as 
expected in relation to a transaction they carried out with their own customer. So they did not 
give Barclays the authorisation to debit their account.
The banks mandate and relevant regulation prevent it from debiting its customers account 
without their authorisation, especially where there is no evidence that their customer was 
involved in fraud or scams or that money had been paid into their account by mistake. In this 
instance I have not seen anything to suggest that the beneficiary account holder had acted 
dishonestly or was involved in the scam L fell victim to. The money hadnt been paid by 
mistake in the sense that the payment reached the beneficiarys account as instructed by L 
to their bank. 
L says that the beneficiary has acknowledged that L was a victim of a fraud and so L expects 
a refund from them. However, from what I can see, the beneficiary hasnt consented to 
Barclays to debit their account. In the circumstances, I cant see what more Barclays could 
have done. Therefore, I am not persuaded that Barclays has acted unfairly by not removing 
the funds and returning them to L.
I am sorry to have to disappoint L. But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank 
has done something wrong which has led to a loss. In this case, from what Ive seen there 
hasnt been a failing by Barclays which has resulted in Ls loss. As such I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund their loss.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman