DRN-1834155
Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy with a further advance on their mortgage in 2009. Mr and 
Mrs T paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It 
covered Mr T in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs T and Lloyds a provisional decision on 5 April 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr and Mrs T signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to applying 
for the secured loan itself. And they set up a direct debit to pay for the policy separately to 
the lending  the PPI was not part and parcel of the loan. Their loan offer then reiterated that 
they didnt have to buy any insurance from Lloyds if they didnt want to, it described the PPI 
as optional, and it set it out as a separate cost. And Mr and Mrs T had already taken out a 
mortgage with Lloyds without PPI, which wouldve reinforced the fact that they didnt have to 
buy a policy to get their secured lending. I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and 
Mrs T aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr T, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr T 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. He 
doesnt seem to have had any other significant protection in case he was off sick or out of 
work, which potentially left Mr and Mrs T at serious risk. If Mr and Mrs T had fallen behind on 
their repayments, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Mr T says he was a contract worker on a zero hours contract. But when he applied for this 
advance, he described himself as being permanently employed. And when he applied for the 
PPI, he confirmed he was employed for at least 16 hours a week. Similarly, he described 
himself as a permanent employee in his earlier mortgage application, and his later further 
advance application in 2011, and also gave Lloyds his payroll reference to check this with 
his employer. So I think its most likely that Mr T was a permanent employee at the time, and 
is now mistaken. But if Mr T can provide substantial evidence to show he was a contractor, 
and explain why he repeatedly described himself as a permanent employee in his 
documents, then I can of course reconsider this point.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs T chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs T in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs T could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lloyds didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs T did, which Ill go through below.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T sent in evidence that Mr T was self-employed, and clarified that he was only 
considered as employed due to a payroll technicality. He was not on a fixed-term contract, 
but was a freelancer.
Being self-employed, Mr T had no guaranteed hours, as is normal. But he was not a zero-
hours worker in the sense of being a casual or temporary worker. He was a self-employed 
freelancer who, at the time, happened to work for one major client.
This means that Mr T was still eligible for the policy and able to claim on it. The policy 
covered self-employed people in much the same way it covered employed people  the 
terms were no more onerous for the self-employed, and Mr T should not have found it harder 
to claim if hed needed to.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions 
or limitations of the policy, and didnt have any alternative cover. So the policy couldve really 
been useful for him, and couldve saved him from losing his home if he fell on difficult times.
Ive not seen any other reason to say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs T. As I said 
before, it looks like it wouldve been clear the PPI was optional, and they chose it at the time; 
and I dont think its likely that better information wouldve put them off from buying it.
So while I thank Mr and Mrs T for their efforts in making sure we understood their situation 
clearly, I have still not seen any reason to say that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman