DRN-1908504
Complaint
Mr O has complained about the overdraft fees and interest HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
applied to his current account. Hes said unplanned overdraft charges were applied to his 
account, which caused him difficulty.
Background
Mr Os complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong as there wasnt anything to suggest as HSBC had refunded some of 
the fees when he got in touch and there wasnt anything to suggest financial difficulty at 
other times. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr O disagreed with the 
investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBC charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr O if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Os account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr O was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr O fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mr O even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case. I think its important for me to start by saying that HSBC has refunded a significant 
proportion of the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Os account over the years. And I 
understand its frozen further charges too. So it seems to me that HSBC did treat Mr O fairly 
when it was notified of his financial difficulty and gave him breathing space. 
Ive also considered whether HSBC should refund any of the other interest, fees and 
charges that it added to Mr Os overdraft.
Its fair to say that Mr O did incur unarranged overdraft fees on occasion. But the unarranged 
overdraft charges on Mr Os account were incurred because of card transactions Mr O 
made. There were also regular credits going into Mr Os account and lengthy periods when 
his account wasnt anywhere near going overdrawn. Equally, while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr O expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr O wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mr O, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it didnt refund. As far as I can see, it 
wasnt the charges themselves which was causing Mr O to go overdrawn and therefore, I 
dont think HSBC unfairly charged Mr O in circumstances where it ought to have realised 
that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to refund any of the other interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman