DRN-4010812
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
annuities on his pension savings in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr B held three pension plans with Prudential. Each plan entitled him to receive a 
guaranteed income annuity at his selected retirement dates (that were October 2019, March 
2020, and October 2021). Mr B could decide to take his benefits at an alternative date, but 
Prudential would make an adjustment to the income it would pay on the plan.
In October 2021 Mr B asked Prudential, via his financial advisor, to put each of his pension 
plans into payment. He requested to take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax free cash), and use his remaining pension savings to purchase an 
annuity under the terms of the guarantee.
But Prudential agrees that it failed to act on Mr Bs request in a timely manner. One plan was 
put into payment on 23 December 2021. The other two plans didnt enter payment until 
3 April 2022. Mr Bs complaint was dealt with by Prudential in two different response letters.
The first letter dealt with the plan that entered payment in December 2021. Prudential told 
Mr B that it thought that annuity should have put into payment by 25 October 2021. So it paid 
him some compensation for the delay. The second letter dealt with the other two plans. 
Prudential told Mr B that it thought those two plans should have been put into payment by 
26 December 2021. So Prudential paid Mr B some further compensation to reflect the delay 
to the payment of his PCLS and the annuity payments that had been missed. And Prudential 
paid £525 to Mr B for the inconvenience hed been caused, and the cost of the phone calls 
hed needed to make. Prudential also told Mr B that, if he provided evidence of any other 
losses caused by the delay, it would consider a further compensation payment.
Mr B didnt provide any further evidence to Prudential, but brought his complaint to us. 
Around that time Prudential told us that it had reviewed what it had said about the first 
pension policy, and now thought that the annuity had started around the right time. But it 
said it wouldnt be asking Mr B to repay the compensation he had been given in the first 
response letter. We also asked Mr B to provide some evidence of the additional losses he 
said he had suffered as a result of the late PCLS and annuity payments. But nothing further 
was received.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
compensation Prudential had paid for the late start of the annuities was in line with our 
normal approach. And he noted that, since Mr B had not provided any evidence of the 
additional losses he claimed to have suffered, it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Prudential to 
pay any further compensation. So he didnt think Prudential needed to do anything more in 
relation to the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Prudential has accepted that it didnt deal with Mr Bs request to take his pension benefits 
from all three plans in as timely a manner as it should have. I have looked at the hypothetical 
timeline that Prudential has suggested should have applied, and was set out for Mr B in our 
investigators assessment. I think that hypothetical timeline is reasonable, and suggests that 
Mr Bs pension benefits should have been paid to him by 26 December 2021.
As I said earlier, the benefits from one of Mr Bs pension plans were paid to him a couple of 
days before the hypothetical date Ive set out above. So, had no compensation been already 
paid by Prudential, I wouldnt be making any award in respect of that plan. But Prudential 
says it mistakenly calculated an earlier date when it responded to Mr Bs complaint and paid 
him some compensation. It is not however seeking to recover that compensation, or offset its 
value against any other compensation that might be due. So I dont think there is anything 
further for me to consider in respect of the first pension plan that Mr B put into payment.
But there was a delay, compared with the hypothetical timeline, in the payment of the 
pension benefits from the other two plans. Those payments were made to Mr B in 
April 2022, so a delay of around three months occurred. I do think it right that Mr B be paid 
some compensation in relation to those two plans. So Ive looked carefully at the calculations 
Prudential carried out when assessing the compensation it would pay.
I think that the direct losses Mr B experienced from the delay came in two parts. First of all 
he was without the use of his PCLS for an extended period of time. And secondly, he will 
have missed out on some annuity payments due to the late start of his pension benefits. 
I think it is right that Prudential has paid compensation to Mr B, using the normal statutory 
interest rate of 8% simple, for those delays, as well as paying him the additional monthly 
annuity payments that were missed. I think that the calculations Prudential carried out to 
assess those compensation amounts were entirely in line with what I would recommend in 
circumstances such as these.But Mr B has told us, and Prudential, that he has also suffered some consequential losses 
as a result of the delayed payments. He says that the PCLS payments were being used to 
fund the self-building costs of a new home. He says that the delays meant that the cost of 
materials have risen sharply, and that he needed to use other short term finance methods 
such as bank overdraft and credit card facilities to bridge the funding gap. Mr B says that he 
is a self-employed builder so his business reputation has suffered through the late payment 
of suppliers.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr B says here. But in order to be fair to both parties I dont 
think it unreasonable to expect Mr B to provide some evidence to support the consequential 
losses that he has said he incurred. It is not unlikely that other factors, apart from the delay 
caused by Prudential, might have contributed to the losses that Mr B says he has suffered. 
Mr B has been given a number of opportunities to provide the requested information and 
evidence. Our investigators have explained why we need the information and the likely 
consequences of us not receiving it. Despite that, Mr B still hasnt given us what we asked 
for. So, I havent been able to get a reasonable picture of the losses he says he has 
incurred, or to what extent Prudential should be held responsible for them. So I dont think it 
is appropriate to direct Prudential to pay any further compensation to Mr B in this regard.
There is no doubt that Mr B will have experienced inconvenience, regardless of any 
consequential losses, as a result of the delayed payments. As I said earlier Prudential has 
paid him £500 in respect of his inconvenience. I think a payment of that size is in line with 
what I would expect to award in circumstances such as these. So I dont think Prudential 
needs to pay anything further in respect of the inconvenience it caused to Mr B.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B. Prudential delayed the payment 
of pension benefits that he had saved over a number of years. But I am satisfied that the 
compensation Prudential has paid for the direct financial impact, and the inconvenience 
caused to Mr B, is fair and reasonable. And, without further evidence, I am unable to agree 
that any further award should be made in respect of the consequential losses that Mr B has 
claimed. So I dont think Prudential needs to pay any further compensation to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman