DRN-3869559
The complaint
Mr G says that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) is responsible for the poor administration and 
management of his personal pensions. Coupled with ineffective handling and 
communication, he says this has led to his financial detriment, inconvenience and distress.
Mrs G found herself in a similar position. And she has brought a separate complaint.
What happened
Its important context that Mr Gs problems appear to have begun around the time of the 
transfer of the traditional insurance-based savings, pensions, life and with profits policies of 
Legal & General (L&G) to ReAssure. The proposal had been underway for a few years 
before being finalised in the High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 September 
2020.
So, Im mindful of the operational challenges ReAssure faced when taking on a significant 
element of L&Gs book. But these are matters between the businesses concerned. The 
agreement reached wouldve required due diligence, one aspect of which wouldve been to 
ensure no harm to customers. Its not something Mr G shouldve been impacted by or 
worried about.
Mr G had two stakeholder pension plans with L&G. These were part of the transfer of 
business to ReAssure. So, it took on responsibility for his plans and became accountable for 
any acts or omissions in relation to these.
On 3 September 2020, Mr G contacted L&G with instructions to make certain switches to the 
funds in each of his pension plans. He says he was informed this could take a week or so 
post transfer of business to ReAssure, but that it would be executed at prices for that day. It 
seems from this point onwards, and over a couple of years, Mr G experienced many 
problems.
Mr G first brought his complaint to this Service in December 2020. But since this time further 
issues have arisen, some have been resolved, some are outstanding and some have 
become complicated because of attempted corrective action and poor communication about 
these. So, this has been a dynamic complaint, with many twists and turns.
The Investigator has set out the background to Mr Gs complaint in some detail in the views 
he issued on 23 December 2021 and 27 July 2022. Neither party has challenged the broad 
thrust of what he set out.
To summarise, the scope of Mr Gs extant concerns about ReAssure, which Im considering 
in this decision are:
- The failure to properly execute his instructions to switch between holdings within 
each of his pension plans. This included inaction, delays, incorrect apportionment 
and incorrect fund selection. The period in question spans requests made between 
September and December 2020, but with the effect being felt beyond this time 
horizon, for example through loss of investment opportunity. Further, 
communications about any remedial action taken were slow and lacking in necessary 
detail to provide the appropriate assurance the right corrective action had been 
taken.
- A delay in applying an employer contribution of £100,000 to Mr Gs pension plan, 
which was made on 3 March 2021, but which didnt appear in his pension cash fund 
until 10 May 2021. He says this resulted in a lost investment opportunity.
- Incorrect application of annual management charges. Mr G notes an agreement he 
had with L&G that his linked plans would be taken together for the purposes of fees 
to be applied. And about the tiered tariff. But he says this agreement wasnt adhered 
to by ReAssure.
- A delay in the switch of his pension plans away from ReAssure to another provider. 
His request was issued on 20 November 2020. But as at the date of the 
Investigators second view it still hadnt been effected. I understand he is now with an 
alternative provider.
While Im not directly addressing some of the complaint points Mr G has raised during his 
journey with this Service, such as problems with his subject access requests to ReAssure 
and his access to its online portal, Im aware of the issues raised and how these contributed 
to his overall frustration and worry about what was happening to his retirement funds.
Mr G has also set out in some detail the practical and emotional impact on him and his wife 
of the catalogue of problems hes experienced since ReAssure took on responsibility for his 
pension plans. And he seeks acknowledgement of such through a substantial award of 
compensation.
ReAssure has accepted responsibility for many of the failings set out, including:
- Problems with executing Mr Gs switching instructions.
- A delay in endorsing the employer contribution made to his policy from 17 March until 
17 May 2021.
- The impact of the delay of applying his employer pension contribution in March 2021 
and the overlooking of his financial advisers request for information about 
requirements for switching, on progress with moving to a different provider.
ReAssure also acknowledged Mr Gs complaint about the annual management charges 
being applied to his pension plans. It asked him to supply it with the evidence which showed 
these should be different from the information it held in its key-facts documentation.
ReAssure has made some attempts to provide redress for Mr G, for example in relation to its 
switching errors. It has also provided him with several payments for the trouble and upset. 
Id observe that in trying to deal with and resolve Mr Gs complaints, it has often been slow 
and its communications about what it accepted and what it didnt have lacked clarity, as 
have any remedies applied. In some instances its corrective action appears to have muddied 
the waters further.
In his view from July 2022 the Investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He required ReAssure 
to remodel his pension plans such that his original instructions had been executed 
effectively. He also allowed for certain assumptions about how his funds wouldve been 
invested had they not been stuck in cash as a result of problems arising with Reassure.The Investigator also said the remodelling should apply the correct annual management 
charges. He made provision that the employer contribution should have been invested from 
17 March 2021. He required ReAssure to meet its undertaking to carry out a loss 
assessment following its role in the delay of the switch of his pension to another provider. 
And to make a further award to him for the trouble and upset its failings had caused.
ReAssure accepted the Investigators first view which was issued in December 2021. It didnt 
respond to his follow-up letter of July 2022, which covered a broader set of Mr Gs complaint 
points.
Mr G was broadly content with the Investigators findings and conclusions, but he challenged 
aspects of the redress proposed. Ill deal with his points in this decision.
Because both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Gs complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued provisional decisions in November and December 
2022. Im grateful to both parties for their further submissions which Ive taken into account 
in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by ReAssure for Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like ReAssure. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
The accounts of both parties havent always been consistent. Both have provided notes 
contemporaneous with the events complained about. Ideally, copies of the recorded calls couldve bee listened to in order to confirm which set of notes were more accurate. However, 
the key call recordings havent been provided by ReAssure.
I think the Investigators reasoning was sound when he concluded, on balance that:
the call notes provided by Mr G will be used to inform my outcome and redress. I have 
made this decision based on the fact that both call notes from ReAssure and Mr G are time 
stamped  ReAssures being their own internal call notes and Mr G completing notes 
immediately after each call and emailing them to himself in order to provide an accurate 
audit trail and timeline. I have also considered the fact that the call notes provided by 
ReAssure were not actioned properly in any case and as such their accuracy in recording 
the funds switches requested must be questioned.
This is important in terms of some of the detail of aspects of the redress required, for 
example what should be accepted in terms of the switch instructions he provided.
As both parties appear to agree in broad terms about the background and the things that 
have gone awry in this case, my aim is to keep matters simple and to focus on what would 
be fair and reasonable redress in this case.
Putting things right
While the proposal I make is unlikely to be perfectly satisfactory to either party, Im sure both 
will appreciate redress isnt often a scientific matter. And Im conscious of the need to avoid 
the benefit of hindsight. Nevertheless, I believe my proposals are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Addressing each of the areas for redress already identified in turn, Ive set out my proposal 
for bringing matters to a close.
The disputed switches
The Investigator recommended Mr Gs pension plans be remodelled such that his original 
instructions from 3 September 2020 and subsequently on 10 November 2020 had been 
actioned correctly. And that from 11 December 2020 his funds should follow the 
performance of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index, until settlement. 
Mr G agreed with the first two steps proposed by the Investigator but he argued the 
proposed index didnt fairly represent his established pattern of investment behaviour. He 
provided a summary analysis of the funds hed invested in since 2006, including the 
propensity for investment in funds with a high risk rating.
Mr G also considered that indexation to a single benchmark shouldnt continue until the date 
of settlement because it didnt represent how hed have moved his funds over the period. For 
example, he noted that in November 2011 declining market conditions triggered a switch 
back into cash for his wifes funds (which he managed). He says this is the pattern hed have 
followed.
Heres what Ive concluded.
There is agreement between the parties that Mr Gs original instructions in September and 
November 2020 werent executed properly. So, these first two steps of remodelling shouldnt 
be contentious.Ive thought carefully about what was happening to Mr Gs pension plans. He said the move 
to cash he instigated on 11 December 2020 was requested only in order to simplify matters 
given the various fund switch issues he was facing. It was an attempt to gain clarity about 
the status of his pension funds. He says had there been no issues, the switch to cash 
wouldnt have happened.
This service would typically expect a consumer to mitigate their losses. So, theres an 
argument Mr G shouldve taken action to move his funds from cash and to have invested. 
However, theres a clear pattern of his instructions not being followed, being delayed, or 
being applied incorrectly. And, like the Investigator, I dont consider it reasonable to have 
expected him to have given further investment instructions to ReAssure at a time where he 
had several contested requests still outstanding.
So, Ive concluded its reasonable in the circumstances to ignore Mr Gs instruction from 11 
December 2020 to move all his funds into cash. Not to do so wouldnt provide for placing him 
back into the position hed have been in now without ReAssures errors.
As Mr G acknowledged along the way, theres a need to avoid hindsight in these matters. 
Thats partly why I dont propose to use Mr Gs then existing investment funds in whatever 
relative proportions as the basis for the method to assess investment opportunity loss.
That said I find some merit in his argument, based on the evidence Mr G provided about his 
investment behaviours since 2006, that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index doesnt provide the best fit for him. I think his proposed alternative index  FTSE UK 
Private Investor Ultra Growth Index is a better fit.
However Im not persuaded this would be appropriate for 100% of his funds. I say this 
because his own analysis suggests over time broadly 25% of his pot has been in cash funds. 
So, Im requiring ReAssure to conduct a third step to remodelling Mr Gs pension plans that 
assumes from 11 December (a) 75% of his funds benefitted from the performance of the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Ultra Growth Index; and (b) the residual 25% wouldve mirrored 
the performance of the L&G cash fund.
This doesnt mean Mr G would have invested his money in the way Ive set out. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he couldve 
obtained from investments suited to his risk attitude and investment approach.
Turning to Mr Gs argument about the period of indexation. Hes provided arguments about 
certain switches hed have made in May 2021 and on 15 November 2021. Im not persuaded 
by his argument to move away from the benchmark Ive set out in May 2021. I think this 
would unnecessarily complicate what is already an imperfect solution.
However, Mr G has provided a strong argument he wouldve switched his funds into the L&G 
cash fund due to deteriorating market conditions from 15 November 2021, as he executed 
for his wifes pension plan at that time (remember, he was already in cash). So, Ive 
concluded this is the date at which the third step indexation should cease. With his funds 
then all back into the L&G cash fund.
In his response to this Service dated 18 August 2018, Mr G told us:
We have since been happy to remain wholly invested within the Cash Fund; partly because 
of the subsequent market reaction to Russias invasion of Ukraine and also to maintain 
stable policy valuations in anticipation of transferring to a new provider. This reflected our 
understanding that the delays in the transfer of our policies were exacerbated because our IFAs compliance process timed-out whilst confirmations of valuations and other responses 
were awaited from ReAssure.
In responding to my first provisional decision Mr G asked:
Bearing in mind that my complaint in part arose because of ReAssures misinterpretation of 
instructions, I would like [the ombudsmans] final decision to explicitly clarify and/or 
prescribe:
Which of the following happens after the end of the indexation period on 15/11/2021?
(a) Is the compensatory amount (excluding that for the delayed transfer) at this point to be 
calculated from the difference between the remodelled and actual value of each policy on 
15/11/2021, with interest then applied until the date of settlement, or
(b) Does the remodelling continue until the policy transfer dates of 02/08/2022 & 10/08/2022 
(these being the dates of ReAssures confirmatory letters to me) with the compensatory 
amount (excluding that for the delayed transfer) calculated from the difference between the 
remodelled and transfer value of each policy on 02/08/2022 & 10/08/2022 respectively, 
again with interest then applied until the date of settlement?
I dont think either of Mr Gs proposals is quite right, but I do think the compensation figures 
arrived at for the disputed switches and employer contribution (adjusted for any AMC over 
charging) do need to attract some investment return between 15 November 2021 and when 
each of his policies transferred in August 2022. Effectively then, a step 4. Given his recent 
testimony the index to be used here is the L&G cash fund.
ReAssure will then need to conduct a fifth step, which uplifts any loss calculated between the 
date of transfer of his pension policies to another provider and the date of settlement. I think 
the most straight-forward approach here will be to add 8% annual simple interest for this 
period.
As the Investigator noted, given the number of switches involved, the amount of 
documentation on file and the contradictory nature of some of this documentation it may be 
the case that some of the redress set out here has already been provided for by ReAssure.
So, in carrying out these calculations ReAssure can take into account any redress for these 
matters it has previously paid into Mr Gs funds. And the consequential effects this will have 
had on his position over time. Mr G wouldnt expect to benefit from double redress in relation 
to the same issues.
However, confirmation of each step will be required for Mr G in order that he is able to ratify 
the movements on his pension for his own peace of mind.
The employer pension contribution
ReAssure has accepted Mr Gs second smaller pension plan shouldve received the 
employer contribution of £100,000 by 17 March 2021. As we know, it didnt appear online 
until 10 May 2021. And for reasons already established previously, it sat in cash while he 
tried to resolve the various outstanding issues with his pension plans.
In line with the redress provided for above, its not possible to know with certainty what 
investment decisions Mr G wouldve made with his additional £100,000. So, ReAssure 
should apply the same methodology as for the switching problems. From 17 March 2021 
assume (a) 75% of this sum benefitted from the performance of the FTSE UK Private 
Investor Ultra Growth Index; and (b) the residual 25% wouldve mirrored the performance of the L&G cash fund. And from 15 November 2021 all funds wouldve been moved to his L&G 
cash fund.
From 15 November any loss calculated should also be subject to the subsequent 
adjustments at steps four and five already set out for the methodology proposed for the 
disputed switches above.
The annual management charges
Mr G has previously said ReAssure has been using the wrong annual management charge 
(AMC) for his pension plans. Its surprising AMCs are in dispute  presumably these should 
be a matter of fact and established in contractual terms at appropriate times. Mr G has 
provided an audit trail from L&G, which appears to show the AMCs that should apply to his 
linked pension plans. I understand the Investigator also provided a copy of these documents 
to it. 
In responding to my provisional decision ReAssure said:
We have looked into [Mr Gs] policies and the tiered AMC`s that were issued on the 26th 
May 2022 for policy *****2001 were incorrect, these were the original AMC`s of the policy 
when it was taken out, this has now changed. This was an administration error only, the 
correct AMCs are being applied.
The AMC for policy ******2001 is:
 £0 to £24,999.99  1.000% Annual Management Charge applies
 £25,000.00 to £49,999.99  0.850% Annual Management Charge applies
 £50,000 and above  0.650% Annual Management Charge applies.
The AMC for policy ******7201 is:
 £0 to £24,999.99  1.000% Annual Management Charge applies
 £25,000.00 to £49,999.99  0.850% Annual Management Charge applies
 £50,000 and above  0.650% Annual Management Charge applies.
We can confirm the tiered AMC as above in the attachments are correct for both policies.
Subsequently Mr G has confirmed that these are the charges he thinks shouldve been 
applied. Both parties are therefore now on the same page in respect of this matter. It seems 
that previously on more than one occasion ReAssure has mis-quoted charges and this has 
led to some confusion.
In remodelling Mr Gs pension plans as provided for in this decision, ReAssure will need to 
make explicit the charges it has applied throughout to give him assurance on this matter. 
The delay in transferring Mr Gs pension funds to another provider
Given ReAssures acceptance that it contributed to a delay to the transfer of Mr Gs pension 
plans to another provider, it should honour the commitment it gave him in its letter of 24 
September 2021 to carry out a loss assessment.
Approach to any loss calculated
Im grateful to Mr G for his latest detailed submission concerning his Lifetime Allowance and 
Annual Allowance positions, which I accept has been significantly complicated by what has happened to his pension arrangements since 2020. Ive borne this in mind in what Ive 
provided for here.
ReAssure should pay compensation due, allowing for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. But it shouldnt pay the compensation into his pension plan because Im satisfied 
that could potentially conflict with existing allowances. It should therefore pay that amount 
direct to him.
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Mr G has told this Service he will be a basic rate taxpayer 
at his selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G wouldve 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
ReAssure should provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format 
including information on all dates and fund prices used.
I understand why Mr G has asked me to require that ReAssure should assign him a named 
senior individual and provide their contact details. Hes experienced a multitude of problems 
with the firms handling and his confidence is low that matters will otherwise be effectively 
brought to a close. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G on this point. Its not the role of this Service 
to interfere in operational matters. Im sure ReAssure will now want to grip this matter. Its 
been a costly affair for it, as well as Mr G.
Subject to it receiving any information it requires from Mr G /his financial adviser in good 
time, then I would expect ReAssure will be able to provide closure within 28 working days of 
it receiving notice hes accepted my final decision. Indeed, given the award of interest Ive 
made until settlement, it is in ReAssures interest to put matters straight as soon as possible.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Gs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssures actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here.
ReAssure should pay Mr G an additional £500, on top of the payments it had already made 
for trouble and upset (as at July 2022) for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
through the things it got wrong in dealing with his pension plans over an extended period of 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. ReAssure Limited now needs to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman