DRN-3650013
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that errors by Starling Bank Limited caused it 
to miss out on a Bounce Back Loan.
Fs director, Ms M, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
F wanted to apply to Starling for a Bounce Back Loan. Ms M registered the companys 
interest through a waiting list on 8 March 2021 and was advised to await an invitation to 
apply.
Starling emailed Ms M with an invitation to apply on 15 March. But it seems Ms M didnt 
receive that email. When she contacted the bank for an update on 19 March, she was told to 
await an invitation. 
Starling removed its waiting list requirements on 22 March, so that applicants could simply 
make an application through online banking when they wished.
Unaware that Starling had already sent its invite to her or of the change to Starlings 
processes, Ms M contacted the bank again on 25 March for an update. She was again told 
that Starling would be in touch when she could apply.
The Loan Scheme closed on 31 March. When Ms M queried whether she could still apply 
shortly after, the circumstances above came to light. Ms M complained as she thought 
Starling had misadvised her  especially when she chased things up on 25 March  causing 
her company to miss out on the Bounce Back Loan.
Starling accepted that it couldve informed Ms M on 25 March that she couldve applied 
online  and that without that information, she was unable to apply for the Bounce Back 
Loan in time. It said that it was now unable to consider an application as the Loan Scheme 
had closed, but apologised and paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ms M remained unhappy as she felt F had been deprived of a £50,000 loan under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme and wanted Starling to provide it. 
Our investigator agreed that there had been an error on Starlings part in failing to notify 
Ms M that she could apply when speaking with her on 25 March. While the Loan Scheme 
had closed, he said there was an exceptions process through which Starling could still 
consider an application from F (and, if accepted, provide a Bounce Back Loan). So he 
thought it would be fair for Starling to utilise that. He also thought Starling should pay F a 
further £50 for the inconvenience it had been caused. 
Ms M accepted our investigators view. But while Starling agreed to pay the additional 
compensation, it didnt think that the circumstances met the criteria for F to apply through the 
exceptions process. And so with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
My initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator. So I shared my 
provisional findings with both parties last month to let them know what I thought and invited 
them to provide me with anything else they wanted me to take into account before I made a 
final decision. I said:
Starling has evidenced that it emailed Ms M on 15 March with an invitation to submit a 
Bounce Back Loan application for F. It is regrettable that Ms M didnt receive this, but it 
doesnt appear to be the result of anything the bank did wrong  it used the correct 
email address for Ms M, through which other correspondence was sent successfully. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Ms M didnt receive the email (as Im sure if she had, she 
would simply have followed the necessary process to apply). So having not received it, 
she naturally chased things up with Starling and was reliant on the information that it 
gave her.
Ms M contacted Starling through its online chat facility on two occasions after the email 
invitation had been sent  on 19 March and 25 March. Starling has advised that its 
agents wouldnt have access to Fs records so wouldnt have known that it had now 
been invited to apply. The agents were therefore only able to give generic information 
as to the standard process. I think that was reasonable.
Nevertheless, as Starling has accepted, its agent incorrectly advised Ms M as to the 
process when she contacted the bank on 25 March. Ms M was told to await an 
invitation, when in fact this requirement had been removed  so Ms M couldve 
submitted an application through online banking. Given the impending closure of the 
Loan Scheme, there was a particular urgency. Relying on Starlings assurances, Ms M 
continued to wait in vain for an invite.
I think that F did, therefore, miss out on the opportunity to apply for a Bounce Back 
Loan due to the incorrect information Ms M received from Starling. I appreciate the 
banks point that Ms M couldve applied elsewhere  but I think she was quite 
reasonably committed to the Starling application, given that is who she banked with 
and Starlings assurances as to the progress of her request, as well as the fact that 
applicants could only make one application at a time and the relative lack of alternative 
options for F by this time.
Ms M believes that F has lost out on a loan of £50,000 as a result of Starlings error. 
But that isnt necessarily the case. Rather, F lost the opportunity to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan of that amount. The Loan Scheme has now closed  as has the exceptions 
process  so there is no means through which Starling could consider an application 
from F now. So to consider the impact that this has had on F  and to inform how I 
think the complaint should be resolved  Ive considered whether its application 
wouldve been successful had it been made in time. 
From what Ive seen so far, I dont think its likely that F wouldve obtained the loan it 
was looking for  so I dont think the shortcomings in Starlings service left the 
company any worse off than it would otherwise have been. I say this primarily because 
Ms M has advised that she was looking for a loan of £50,000  but I dont think F 
wouldve been eligible for this. Under the Scheme rules, an applicant could borrow no 
more than 25% of their annual turnover (which was to be based on the 2019 calendar 
year). So to obtain £50,000, F wouldve needed a turnover of £200,000 between 
January and December 2019. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think F met this requirement. Ms M has declined to provide a copy of Fs tax return as requested and 
the statements shes provided show a substantially lower amount of turnover.
There are also any number of other reasons why Starling may not have accepted Fs 
application as applications were still subject to a number of criteria and checks with no 
guarantee of approval.
So while it is difficult for me to say with complete certainty, based on the information I 
have I dont think Fs Bounce Back Loan application wouldve been successful. And so 
I dont think the company has been deprived of the loan itself  only the opportunity to 
apply, which hasnt caused it to be any worse off financially than it would otherwise 
have been.
I do, though, think that the failure to properly advise Ms M caused the company some 
avoidable inconvenience in following things up after the deadline in light of the 
misinformation she was given. That took her away from the day-to-day running of F, 
for which I think £100 is fair compensation. As Starling has already paid £50, Im 
intending to require that it pays a further £50 to settle the complaint.
Ms F didnt accept my provisional decision, but didnt respond with anything further for me to 
take into consideration. Starling confirmed it had nothing further to add either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information for me to take into account, Ive not reached a 
different conclusion to the one set out in my provisional decision. So this decision simply 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Starling Bank Limited to pay F compensation of 
£50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman