DRN-2348554
The complaint
Mr A complains that Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, (Varooma), lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr A was given five loans by Varooma from October 2015 to December 2017. Mr A 
successfully repaid the loans (sometimes by refinancing the loan with some new borrowing).  
A summary of Mr As borrowing history is as follows: -
Loan 
numberDate of loan Loan amount Repayment date Number of 
monthly 
repayments
1. 6 October 2015 £2,000 29 February 2016 15
2. 29 February 2016 £2,000 24 May 2017 36
3. 3 August 2017 £2,250 12 September 2017 36
4. 11 September 2017 £4,000 20 December 2017 48
5. 20 December 2017 £5,000 13 July 2018 48
The loans were log book loans. They were granted on the basis that Mr A provided 
Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr A didnt make his loan 
repayments, Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the car.
Mr A said that Varooma didnt do any credit checks and didnt do their affordability 
assessment thoroughly enough. There was a short phone call to confirm expense figures. 
He had been financially struggling for a number of years.
In its final response letter, Varooma said on all occasions, it had completed assessments of 
Mr As affordability to ensure suitability and affordability. A credit check had also been 
completed, except on the first account. Payment histories were checked to ensure that Mr A 
was able to maintain repayments and wasnt falling behind. There was no sign that Mr A was 
struggling, and no notifications of any hardship were provided. Varooma was of the opinion 
that it lent responsibly and in accordance with its policy and regulatory guidance. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Varooma should have done more to ensure that the loans were affordable and sustainable. 
But, as she hadnt received information from Mr A to evidence his financial circumstances at 
the time he took out the loans, she couldnt say that the loans werent affordable and that 
Varooma shouldnt have lent the loans to Mr A.
Mr A didnt accept that assessment. But he also said that he couldnt supply evidence of his 
financial circumstances. He said that his bank was unable to provide copies of old bank 
statements. 
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Varooma on 16 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when Varooma lent to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
The relevant rules said that a lender must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, 
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. 
I said that the rules didnt set out any specific checks which had to be completed to assess
creditworthiness. However, the lender needed to take into account the borrowers income 
(over the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other 
debts and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Whilst it was down to the 
lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out, these needed to be reasonable 
and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
So, Varoomas assessment needed to be flexible  what was reasonable for one borrower 
might not be so for another, or what might be reasonable for a borrower for one loan 
application might not be so for the same borrower for a different loan. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period) and
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing   
Mr As loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans 
in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?
- Did Varooma make fair lending decisions?
- Was there a point at which the pattern or history of lending itself showed further 
borrowing would be unsustainable for Mr A?
I could see that Varoomas loan application process had included gathering information from    
Mr A about his circumstances in a telephone call. Varooma had provided this service with recordings of the relevant calls before Loans 2, 4 and 5 which Id listened to. Then Mr A 
signed an income and expenditure statement on a home visit. The statements were signed 
by Mr A to declare that the information hed provided was an accurate statement of his 
income and expenditure and proof of his ability to repay the loan. The statements also said 
that Mr A believed that his income was adequate for meeting the additional monthly loan 
commitment. 
Before Loan 1, I could see that Varooma had asked Mr A for information about his income 
and expenses. It didnt carry out a credit check. Varooma had obtained a copy of Mr As 
payslip to verify his income as around £1,350. A signed statement of Mr As income and 
expenses was attached to the Loan Agreement for Loan 1. 
The statement showed that Mr As expenses totalled £815 and that he had no credit or other 
debts. It also showed that Mr A had a surplus income of £160 after Varoomas monthly loan 
repayment was taken into account. I noted that Mr As loan application form showed that his 
expenses totalled £940. As it wasnt clear to me why there was a discrepancy around the 
total expenses shown on the application form and the signed statement, Id asked the 
adjudicator to ask Varooma to clarify this. It said that the signed statement was what Mr A 
had signed as the correct statement of his income and expenses. 
Id thought about Varoomas checks. CONC made it clear that the extent to which a lenders 
checks were proportionate would depend on the type of credit, the associated cost and the 
risks to the borrower bearing in mind their financial situation. The rules and guidance also 
suggested that when income or expenditure was taken into account, checks were less likely 
to be proportionate where the lender relied solely on a statement of those matters made by 
the borrower. In Mr As circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable for Varooma to base 
its assessment on the financial information Mr A had provided. 
I thought that Varoomas affordability assessment needed to be more detailed and contain a 
greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair and proportionate. I thought this was 
especially the case as Mr A was entering into a substantial commitment with Varooma and it 
should have taken great care to ensure that he was able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. I didnt think it was reasonable for Varooma to rely on expenditure information 
provided by Mr A without verifying it given the cost of the credit, that he needed to make 
monthly payments on Loan 1 of £250 for 15 months, that the loan repayments would take up 
more than 18% of Mr As declared monthly income, and that there was the possibility of his 
losing his car if he didnt manage to keep up his repayments. 
I couldnt see that Varooma had taken steps to do this. And as Varooma had failed to take 
steps to verify the true state of Mr As finances before Loan 1 and his subsequent loans, I 
didnt think the checks it carried out before providing any of these loans were fair or 
proportionate.
So, I thought that Varooma needed to do more to get a thorough understanding of Mr As 
financial position before agreeing to his first loan to reasonably assess the risk to Mr A of not 
managing to meet his repayments sustainably. It could have done this by, for example, 
requesting bank statements from Mr A or by asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses, or by carrying out a credit check. 
So, Id thought about what Varooma wouldve seen if it had done what Id considered to be 
proportionate checks. Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mr A for copies of his bank statements 
for the month before each of his loans. He wasnt able to supply these. But he did supply his 
credit report. Id reviewed Mr As credit report to check Mr As other borrowing before Loan 1. I understood 
that not all credit reference agencies received the same information. But I thought if 
Varooma had gathered more information about Mr As existing debts by, for example, 
carrying out a credit check, it was likely to have seen that Mr A had been facing significant 
problems managing his money for some time. Id seen on Mr As credit report that there was 
a mail order account which had been defaulted less than seven weeks prior to his 
application for Loan 1, another account had been defaulted less than six months before his 
application and another two accounts had been defaulted around six months before his 
application. The outstanding account balances totalled over £6,000. I didnt think, having 
seen that information, a responsible lender would have concluded that it was likely Mr A 
could meet the repayments on Loan 1 in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt think Varooma 
should have agreed to give Mr A this loan. 
I noted from Varoomas account statement for Loan 1 that Mr A had difficulties making his 
repayments. He was 17 days late in making his second monthly payment and 20 days late in 
making his fourth monthly payment. Loan 1 was then repaid three days after the delayed 
fourth payment with the proceeds of Loan 2.  
I noted that Loan 2 was for the same amount as Loan 1, but it was to be repaid over the far 
longer period of 36 months. In addition, Varooma would have been aware that Mr A had 
already had recent difficulties repaying his previous loan. Having listened to Mr As 
application call, there didnt appear to be any investigation by Varooma about Mr As recent 
difficulties in repaying Loan 1. I thought at the very least this should have prompted further 
checks by Varooma. I could see on Varoomas application form that a tick box has been 
ticked to show that it had carried out a credit check but no details about this had been 
provided. If Varooma had carried out a proportionate check here it would have seen that    
Mr A hadnt made any repayments towards two of his defaulted debts and only a small 
repayment towards another defaulted debt. Overall and in view of Mr As recent repayment 
history with Varooma, I thought that it should have had concerns about the risk to Mr A of not 
being able to make repayments over the far longer term and the potential difficulties or 
adverse consequences for him. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think Varooma should 
have given Loan 2 to Mr A. 
Mr A said that he managed to repay Loan 2 about 15 months later with an unexpected 
bonus from work. Hed then taken out Loan 3 less than three months later. The loan amount 
had increased to £2,250 but it was again to be repaid over 36 months. The total amount     
Mr A needed to repay was £6,300 meaning he needed to repay £4,050 in interest for the 
amount hed borrowed. 
I noted that Mr A had said that Loan 3 was for cashflow purposes. So, I thought that might 
have concerned Varooma. And in addition, for the same reasons as set out for Loan 1, I 
thought that Varooma ought to have wanted to gather, and independently check, some 
detailed information about Mr As financial circumstances before it agreed to give Loan 3 to 
him.
Id again looked at Mr As credit report to see what better checks would have shown 
Varooma. It was clear from the report that Mr A had been facing significant problems 
managing his money for some time. He had five outstanding short term loans, the most 
recent of which was for £1,204 and had been taken out less than two weeks before Mr As 
application for Loan 3. He also still had most of the defaulted balances on three of his 
defaulted debts outstanding. I didnt think, having seen that information, a responsible lender 
would have concluded that it was likely Mr A could meet the repayments on Loan 3 in a 
sustainable manner. So, I didnt think Varooma should have agreed to give Mr A this loan. Mr A took out Loan 4 just less than six weeks after hed taken out Loan 3. The loan amount 
had increased to £4,000 and was to be repaid by 48 monthly payments of £283.33. The total 
amount Mr A needed to repay was £13,600 meaning he needed to repay £9,600 in interest 
for the amount of £4,000 hed borrowed. 
Id listened to a recording of two calls before Loan 4 in which Mr A provided Varooma with 
information about his income and expenses. In one of the calls, Mr A said he wanted to 
repay an existing personal loan for which he paid £100 a month and in the second call he 
said hed paid £300 each month on some payday loans but that he was hoping to repay 
these. Varooma said it had taken into account that Mr A would be repaying existing credit. 
But I couldnt see that Varooma had asked Mr A for details of the loan amounts to be repaid 
and it didnt appear to have queried the discrepancies in the respective calls about his 
monthly credit repayments. 
Id also not seen any details about Varoomas credit check other than a credit score. But Id 
seen from Mr As own credit report that he had five payday loans and a credit card near its 
limit at the time of his application for Loan 4. Mr A also still had most of the defaulted 
balances on three of his defaulted debts outstanding. And I could also see that the available 
amount for Mr A of £1,593.16 from Loan 4 wasnt sufficient to repay his outstanding credit. I 
thought if Varooma had gathered and checked information about Mr As existing credit, it 
would have seen that its loan wouldnt have covered all of Mr As outstanding debt and that 
borrowing Loan 4 simply prolonged and increased his indebtedness, potentially for another 
four years. 
In addition, having looked at the overall history and pattern of lending, I thought by the time 
of Loan 4, Varooma ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr As 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have 
provided further loans. I said this because
Mr A had struggled to make some of his payments on Loans 1 and 2;
Mr A was returning for further funds around a month after taking out Loan 3;
Mr A wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed Varooma. By Loan 4 the 
amount being borrowed was double the amount of Loan 1 and almost double his 
previous loan and the loan repayments had significantly increased;
Mr A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Varooma over 
an extended period. And by taking out Loan 4 Mr A would be indebted for a far longer 
time than any of his previous loans (48 months);
By Loan 4, Mr A had been borrowing from Varooma for around 23 months with less 
than a three months break. As Loan 4 was for 48 months, he would be required to 
make even higher repayments for this period and would continue to be reliant on this 
expensive credit for an extended period. 
Mr A had taken out Loan 5 around three months after Loan 4 and the loan amount had again 
increased to £5,000. The monthly repayments which were again be made over 48 months 
had also increased.
I thought that Mr A had lost out because these loans had the effect of unfairly and 
excessively prolonging Mr As indebtedness to Varooma by allowing him to take expensive 
credit over an extended period of time. These loans were very expensive, and I thought that 
the overall cost of these loans unfairly prolonged Mr As already difficult financial position. In 
addition, the presence of these high cost loans on Mr As credit file was likely to have had 
implications for Mr As ability to access mainstream credit. So, I didnt think that Varooma as 
a responsible lender should have provided Loans 4 and 5 to Mr A. So, for the reasons set out above I didnt think Varooma had acted fairly when it provided 
Loans 1 to 5 to Mr A, and subject to any further representations by Mr A or Varooma, my 
provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order 
Varooma to put things right as follows. 
Putting things right 
As I intended to conclude that Varooma was irresponsible to have lent to Mr A, I said he 
shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges for Loans 1 to 5. 
So Varooma should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr A on Loans 1 to 5.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to Loans 1 
to 3;
Remove all information about Loans 4 and 5 from Mr As credit file. By this point, I 
thought any information recorded about further borrowing was likely to be adverse. 
 * HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Both Mr A and Varooma responded to my provisional decision to say that they had nothing 
else to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr A and Varooma have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint and require Varooma to pay Mr A some compensation and take the steps set out 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr A on Loans 1 to 5.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to Loans 1 
to 3;
Remove all information about Loans 4 and 5 from Mr As credit file. By this point, I 
think any information recorded about further borrowing is likely to be adverse. 
 * HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020. Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman