DRN-3731645
The complaint
Mr S complained that Golden Charter Limited improperly shared information about his pre-
paid funeral plan with a third party and took their instruction to cancel the plan.
What happened
Mr S bought a pre-paid funeral plan from Golden Charter in 2000.  The completed 
application form includes details of a next of kin/executor.  The cost of the funeral was 
£1,125, which Mr S paid in twelve monthly instalments.
In 2018, Mr S contacted Golden Charter because he said the person named as next of kin 
on his application had been contacting businesses about him without his consent.  Golden 
Charter said that theyd not spoken to the next of kin and theyd only speak to Mr S or the 
funeral director about his plan.  
During this call, Mr S also told Golden Charter he didnt want to receive marketing material 
from them.  So Golden Charter amended his preferences. 
In 2022, Mr S called Golden Charter and again complained theyd spoken to the person 
named as next of kin in the application without his consent.  He said he wasnt related to this 
person and wanted their details removed from his records.  Golden Charter again confirmed 
theyd not spoken to them and would only speak to Mr S.
Later that day, Mr S called Golden Charter again and said hed lost faith in their services and 
wanted to cancel his plan and get a refund of what hed paid.  Golden Charter confirmed 
hed receive a full refund of £1,125.
About three weeks later, Mr S called Golden Charter again.  He confirmed hed received his 
refund.  But he said he wanted to make a complaint about Golden Charter sharing personal 
information with the person whod been his nominated next of kin.  And he wanted 
compensation for this.
Golden Charter investigated but told Mr S they couldnt find any evidence to suggest theyd 
disclosed his information to anyone except him.  Mr S wasnt satisfied with their conclusion 
and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered it and concluded Golden Charter didnt need to do any more to 
resolve the matter.  He didnt doubt what Mr S had said about the third party contacting 
businesses about him.  But he explained he could only consider whether Golden Charter 
had done what they should have done.  And he said hed seen no evidence to show theyd 
discussed Mr Ss plan with anyone other than him.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive no doubt Mr Ss concerns about the way the third party is trying to 
involve themselves in his life are genuine.  And Im sorry to read about the distress thats 
clearly caused him.  
But  as our investigator explained  I cant do anything about that.  I can only look at 
whether Golden Charter dealt with Mr Ss plan as they should have done.
Ive read Golden Charters contact notes.  They cover the whole of the period hes had the 
plan.  And Ive listened to call recordings which date back to 2018.  Every call Ive listened to 
starts with security checks to verify who Golden Charter were speaking to.  Im satisfied from 
this, and from the content of the calls that they were with Mr S himself, rather than anyone 
else.  This includes the call when the plan was cancelled.  
This call starts with the call handler completing security checks to establish she was 
speaking to Mr S.  Mr S requested a refund of what hed paid and told the call handler hed 
lost confidence in Golden Charter.   The call handler took Mr Ss bank details to process the 
refund and checked twice he knew the cancellation couldnt be reversed and that it would 
cost him far more to buy an equivalent plan at todays prices.  Im satisfied from this that the 
call handler did what she should have done to check Mr Ss identity before actioning his 
clear request to cancel his plan.  
Nothing in Golden Charters notes shows they contacted anyone about his plan other than 
Mr S or the appointed funeral director.  And as I dont think theyve done anything wrong, its 
not fair to say Golden Charter should pay Mr S any compensation  or do anything more to 
resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Golden Charter 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman