DRN-3789236
The complaint
Mr I complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd took too long to pay his claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Is taxi was stolen so he claimed on his policy with Nelson. Nelson appointed an 
investigator to review the claim and asked for the Police report on the theft. As the claim was 
taking too long Mr I complained. 
Nelson reviewed the complaint and said as they hadnt received the Police report they were 
unable to pay the claim. Nelson eventually received the Police report around six months 
after the theft and then paid Mr Is claim. Nelson didnt think theyd done anything wrong as 
their internal procedures meant they needed the Police report before paying the claim. 
Mr I didnt think this was good enough and referred his complaint here. He said hed had to 
rent a replacement taxi at the cost of £140 per week. He thought Nelson should compensate 
him for taking too long to pay his claim. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
there had been delays in Nelson progressing the claim and that it had taken a few months 
for the Police to send the report to Nelson. Our investigator didnt think Nelson had dealt with 
the claim promptly and so recommended Nelson pay Mr I the amount he paid to rent a 
replacement taxi, or if he was unable to evidence what hed paid, then to pay him £10 per 
day loss of use. She recommended this was calculated from 1 January 2022 until the date 
the total loss settlement was paid.  
Nelson didnt agree, they said it wasnt their fault the Police report had taken a few months 
and without it they couldnt pay the claim. Nelson also said they didnt think it was fair to 
calculate the compensation from two weeks after their investigator interviewed Mr I. 
As Nelson didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that a firm should handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Given Mr Is claim was also for his taxi which provides his income 
I think it particularly important to ensure his claim was dealt with promptly. However an 
insurer should also have sufficient time to review and assess claims accurately. 
Mr I claimed on his policy for his stolen taxi on 26 November 2021. His claim then wasnt 
paid until 17 May 2022. This meant Mr I was without his taxi for some time. So Ive 
considered the reasons for this. 
I can see that Nelson appointed an investigator to review Mr Is claim. The investigator 
interviewed him Mr I 17 December. In the investigators report it says
The police report would only confirm the details given as they did not 
attend the scene. There would probably be very little, if any 
investigation.
I understand Nelson didnt have any concerns about the theft and that  they needed to see 
the Police report to see if there were any discrepancies. While I dont think its unreasonable 
for Nelson to check the Police report or want to see it. I do think its unreasonable for Mr I to 
wait almost six months for his settlement, particularly when Nelsons investigator has said 
they think the Police report would only confirm the same details they obtained. Im therefore 
not persuaded Nelson dealt with Mr Is claim promptly, as they should. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact this had on Mr I. Mr I explained he had to rent a 
replacement taxi and it cost him £140 per week. Hes also provided some documents to 
show hes rented a taxi, I can see the agreement covers this time but the statements 
showing hes paid it are dated after May 2022. Therefore, Nelson should pay Mr I £140 per 
week to reimburse him for the hire. This needs to be calculated from 1 January 2022 until 17 
May 2022, subject to Mr I providing evidence he paid for the replacement taxi hire during this 
time. Nelson should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount to compensate him 
for not having the money. The interest should be calculated from the date Mr I made the 
payments until the date Nelson pays the settlement. If Mr I is unable to provide this evidence, 
then Nelson should pay him £10 per day between these two dates, for the dates Mr I is 
unable to show he hired a replacement taxi. 
I understand Nelson said it doesnt think two weeks after their investigator produced their 
report is a reasonable time scale to calculate the compensation from. However I disagree, I 
say this because Mr I claimed for his stolen taxi on 26 November 2021 and therefore his loss 
of use is calculated from a little over a month later. Given Mr I initially had a hire car provided 
under a different policy and that Nelson had all it was likely to get by 17 December 2021, Im 
not persuaded calculating Mr Is loss of use from 1 January 2022 is unreasonable in this 
particular case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Nelson Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr I £140 per week for the replacement rental taxi, 
calculated from 1 January 2022 until 17 May 2022, subject to Mr I providing evidence he 
paid for the replacement taxi during that time. 8% simple interest per year should also be 
added to this amount, calculated from the dates Mr I made the payments until the date 
settlement is made. 
If Mr I is unable to provide evidence of the payments made to hire a taxi, Nelson Insurance 
Company Ltd should pay him £10 per day for loss of use during 1 January 2022 until 17 May 
2022 for the dates Mr I is unable to show he hired a replacement taxi. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman