DRN-1577168
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) didnt apply a payment 
to his credit card account and then declined a transaction on his card.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card account with Creation. In April 2019, Creation called him to say hed 
missed that months payment. But Mr M said hed made the payment and provided the 
details. The call handler told him that Creation had changed their bank account details. Mr 
Ms payment had been sent to their old bank account. He said he didnt know the bank 
details had changed.
The call handler said that Mr M would have been sent a letter in around June 2018 about the 
change of bank details. Mr M couldnt recall any such letter. He said hed been successfully 
making payments using the original account details since 2017. The call handler said that 
Creation would be able to locate Mr Ms payment. She said theyd apply it to his account and 
remove the related charges. The payment was located and applied to Mr Ms account. But 
this didnt happen until around ten days after the phone call.
In the meantime, Mr Ms wife tried to pay for a weekly grocery shop using the credit card, but 
it was declined. Mr M says this caused her a great deal of distress and also inconvenience 
as she had to wait in the store until he was able to come and pay for the shopping. The next 
day, she had to go to hospital due to a medical issue which Mr M attributes to the stress 
caused by the card being declined. The reason given by Creation for the decline is that the 
April payment had been missed so the account was in arrears.                                 
When Mr M complained to Creation, the outcome of his complaint was initially unclear due to 
typographical errors in their response letter. They later clarified that they upheld the 
complaint in part, acknowledging that theyd given Mr M incorrect information, including 
about timescales for responding to the complaint. But they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong in relation to the April payment or by declining the card. They didnt think they needed 
to pay Mr M any compensation.
Creation said that the reason Mr Ms payment went missing wasnt because he sent it to 
their old account. Their bank details had changed, but they said they could still access the 
old account. They said that the reason Mr Ms payment hadnt reached his account was 
because he hadnt provided his full credit card number as the payment reference. So they 
said they didnt know where to allocate the payment. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Creations response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Hes very unhappy with the service he received from Creation, which he says caused a great 
deal of stress and inconvenience to him and his wife. He also wants Creation to refund the 
monthly account fee from March 2019. He says he didnt want to use the card while the 
complaint was being investigated. But he didnt want to close the account or stop payments 
as he was worried that he wouldnt be able to access his account information and that it 
could adversely affect his credit file.Our investigator didnt think Creation had acted fairly and recommended that they pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr M. But she didnt think they needed to reimburse the monthly 
fee. Creation didnt accept our investigators recommendation. They offered compensation of 
£75 instead. Mr M also asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Creation havent acted fairly here. Ill 
explain why.
Creation contacted Mr M on or around 24 April 2019 to tell him that hed missed his monthly 
payment. When he explained that hed made the payment in the usual way, the call handler 
told him about Creations new bank details. The conversation continued on the basis that Mr 
Ms payment hadnt reached his account because hed sent it to Creations old bank 
account. But thats not the reason Creation now say the payment couldnt be allocated.
Dealing first with the issue of the change in bank details, I havent seen any evidence that 
Creation had made Mr M aware of this before this phone call. The call handler said that a 
letter had been sent to Mr M in around June 2018 to tell him about it. From the information 
available to me, Im not satisfied that such a letter was sent, in June 2018 or at any other 
time. Mr M doesnt recall receiving it. And Creation havent provided a copy of the letter or 
evidence that it was sent. 
The call handler said that the new bank details were displayed on Mr Ms statements. But I 
wouldnt expect a customer to notice if these changed from one month to the next without an 
additional message clearly displayed on the statement. I havent seen any evidence that the 
change was highlighted on the statements. So I dont think Creation did enough to bring it to 
Mr Ms attention.
Creation say that the new account details were given to Mr M over the phone. They were, 
but only because Creation called to say that Mr M had missed a payment and it then came 
to light that hed sent it to the old account. I dont find that Creation had proactively contacted 
Mr M to tell him about the change to their bank details.
In any event, Creation later said that it wasnt the change in their bank details which caused 
the problem here. They suggested it wasnt an issue, as theres a two year transition period 
and they can retrieve payments. I find that Creation gave Mr M contradictory and 
inconsistent information about why the payment hadnt been applied to his account.
They say the problem was that Mr M hadnt used his full credit card number as the reference 
on the payment. Mr M says the reference he used on this occasion was the same one hes 
always used and I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. Creation say they appreciate 
Mr M may have made payments using that reference previously, but that on this occasion it 
meant the payment wasnt applied to his account. I find their approach to be inconsistent 
here. There hadnt ever been a problem with allocating payments before, so Mr M had no 
reason to do anything differently. But Creation appear to have treated this payment 
differently.
The payment was located by Creation and applied to Mr Ms account. But the call handler 
told him this would happen within a week. In fact, it took nine or ten days from the date of the 
call, which is around one month from when the payment left Mr Ms current account. I think Creation should have located and applied the payment sooner and without any adverse 
consequences for Mr M.
Creation didnt tell Mr M that a block would be placed on his card. So he had no reason to 
think that he or his wife wouldnt be able to continue using it. Although Creations terms and 
conditions do allow them to suspend use of the card if Mr M doesnt make the monthly 
payment on time, I dont think it was fair for them to do so here. Thats because they knew 
that the payment had been made. And theyd assured Mr M that it would be located and 
applied. They hadnt told him he wouldnt be able to use the card.  
I dont doubt that the situation was extremely stressful for Mr M and that he was put to 
significant inconvenience. And hes convinced it at least contributed to the medical incident 
suffered by his wife the next day. To compound matters, when Creation responded to the 
complaint they provided incorrect and unclear information. So I think Creation need to pay 
Mr M some compensation to recognise the impact this situation's had. 
But I dont think Creation need to refund the monthly account fee. I can see that Mr M raised 
this issue with Creation over the phone in May and June 2019. But I havent seen any 
evidence that they agreed to waive or suspend the fee. Their contact notes from the time say 
that Mr M was advised to continue paying it but that they would review the situation when the 
complaint is resolved. I find that the terms and conditions require Mr M to pay this fee each 
month. And, although I understand his concerns, I dont find that Mr M had to keep the 
account open while the complaint was being investigated. And Im satisfied that, even if the 
account had been closed, he would have been able to obtain statement information. 
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I think that £150 is the appropriate amount of compensation to 
recognise the impact of this situation and the distress and inconvenience Mr M has 
experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Creation Financial 
Services Limited must pay compensation of £150 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman