DRN-3142403
The complaint
Ms D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt treated her fairly after she made a 
claim on her commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D runs a bed and breakfast. Following a leak at the property, she made a claim on her 
bed and breakfast insurance policy. The policy was taken out in June 2020. She says the 
repairs are estimated to cost about £15,000.
Following a visit, UKI raised concerns Ms D had significantly underinsured the property when 
taking the policy out, by only giving a rebuild value of £2,000,000 (£2m). During her online 
application she gave a figure of £2.2m, but in the follow up call, this was reduced to £2m.
In response, Ms D provided UKI with a page from a survey that was completed in 2014. The 
survey stated the estimated rebuild cost for insurance purposes was £1.5m. UKI offered 
Ms D £50 to apologise for some delays, and it noted her survey would be considered.
Further delays followed, for which UKI offered to increase the compensation to £300. Due to 
its continued concerns, UKI decided to commission its own valuation survey (which cost 
£4,500). The survey estimated the rebuild value to be £10.8m.
By the time of UKIs survey, Ms D had already brought her complaint to this service. UKI told 
our investigator it was unable to make a claim decision at this time, and it said it had asked 
Ms D to produce her own survey to support why she disagrees with the survey it had 
commissioned.
UKI noted the policy hadnt renewed as its underwriting criteria will only accept properties up 
to £5m. However, UKI said it would honour any claims whilst this matter is ongoing if Ms D 
hasnt been able to obtain insurance elsewhere.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. This was because she didnt think 
Ms D had made a misrepresentation when taking the policy out. She thought UKI should 
settle the claim for the damage. She was only aware UKI had offered the initial £50 
compensation, and she thought the compensation should be increased to £500.
Ms D asked our investigator about her lost income. She noted that she had not been able to 
run her business from the property due to fear of not being covered in the event an incident 
occurred. In November 2021, Ms D estimated she had so far lost about £25,000. However, 
in January 2022, she estimated her losses to be £45,000 to £55,000. Our investigator told 
Ms D she would need to make a complaint about her financial losses to UKI before our 
service could consider the matter.
UKI disagreed with our investigators findings. UKI said it wasnt alleging misrepresentation, 
but it needed to understand the correct sum insured as the claim would be settled on an 
average basis. In other words, because the 2m sum insured is only 18.5% of UKIs 
estimated 10.8m rebuild cost, it would only pay 18.5% of the claim. 
Because UKI disagreed with our investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me for 
a final decision. Ive since had correspondence with UKI. Ill set out the content of our 
exchange within my below findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can UKI apply an average?
In my correspondence with UKI, I explained that, whether UKI has alleged misrepresentation 
or not, misrepresentation legislation is the relevant law that applies. Because Ms Ds policy 
is a non-consumer contract, the Insurance Act 2015 is the relevant legislation. I also noted 
that the policy terms covering underinsurance uses the same language and follows the 
approach of the Act. Those policy terms are set out in the general conditions under the 
heading fair presentation of the risk.
To summarise, the Act explains:
- Ms D had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk.
- If Ms D breached her duty, and the breach is qualifying, there are specific remedies 
available to UKI depending on whether the breach was deliberate or reckless, or 
neither deliberate or reckless (also referred to as innocent). 
- A breach is deliberate or reckless if the policyholder knew they were in breach of 
their duty, or they didnt care whether they were in breach.
- A breach is qualifying if, but for the breach, UKI wouldnt have entered into the 
contract, or would have done so on different terms.
So, the first part of the test is whether Ms D breached her duty to make a fair presentation of 
the risk. The Act sets out the following:
a. Ms D had to disclose every material circumstance which she knew or ought to have 
known  or failing that, Ms D had to give sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries;
b. Ms D had to make disclosures in a reasonably clear and accessible manner; and
c. every material representation made as a matter of fact must be substantially correct, 
and every material representation made as a matter of expectation or belief must be 
made in good faith.
I set out the following to UKI:
- Ms D was relying on a 2014 survey when she gave a rebuild value of £2.2m. The 
survey covers her entire property and it was produced by a chartered surveyor, so 
I find it credible. Whilst the survey was completed six years before the policy was 
taken out, Ms D accounted for that by increasing the rebuild value from £1.5m to 
£2.2m.- In terms of a, Ms D disclosed the information she knew or ought to have known. Ive 
not seen anything that leads me to conclude Ms D ought to have doubted the 2014 
survey. The Act explains Ms D ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of the information available. Here, a seemingly 
credible survey from 2014 was available to Ms D.
-In terms of b, Ive not seen that Ms D didnt make disclosures in a reasonably clear 
and accessible manner.
- In terms of c, Ive listened to the post on-line application call, in which the cover was 
taken out. During the call, the sum insured was reduced from £2.2m to £2m. Ms D 
also noted the rebuild costs were between £1.6m and £2m. Its clear from the call 
Ms D wasnt making a statement of fact, but rather, a statement of expectation or 
belief. As per the 2014 survey, that statement was made in good faith.
- Therefore, I said I havent seen Ms D breached her duty to make a fair presentation 
of the risk. 
In response, UKI noted it wasnt relying on the policy condition that Ms D must make a fair 
presentation of the risk. UKI said it was relying on a different policy term that explains an 
average will be applied to the claim settlement if the sum insured is less than 85% of the 
rebuild cost.
UKI also said because its applying the average policy terms, it doesnt have to demonstrate 
theres been a breach of fair presentation. Nonetheless, UKI said it believed there had been 
a breach as the survey relied upon was six years old, and given the specialist nature of the 
property, UKI would expect a more up to date rebuild valuation. 
UKI also said Ms D failed to inform it her business was for sale, and this was a material fact 
that would need to be disclosed. UKI says had it known about the intended sale, its further 
investigations may have led to the full facts and risks becoming known, which would have 
prevented the risk being accepted.
UKI said, in summary, applying an average is a provision in the policy terms that its entitled 
to apply regardless of the reason for underinsurance. UKI said, the Insurance Act hasnt 
removed or overruled the principal of average.
I accept Ms Ds policy contains average terms. I also accept the principle of applying an 
average has been in place long before the Insurance Act. However, since the Act came 
into force in August 2016, insurers should be following the approach set by that law. 
Simply because a policy has average terms, doesnt mean the terms take precedence over 
the relevant law. Particularly if applying those terms leads to a less favourable outcome for 
the policyholder.
The Act does allow the insurer to contract out. To summarise, the insurer can include policy 
terms that puts the policyholder in a worse position than the Act, providing certain conditions 
are met. The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to the 
policyholders attention before the policy is taken out, and the term must be clear and 
unambiguous as to its effect. Unless those conditions are met, a term which puts the 
policyholder in a worse position than the provisions of the Act, is of no effect.Ive not seen anything that shows UKI brought the average terms to Ms Ds attention before 
the policy was taken out. In any event, simply highlighting the terms wouldnt go far enough, 
in my view. UKI would need to explain the implications, in respect of the terms in question 
being applicable rather than the Insurance Act. Furthermore, I dont find the policy terms 
clear and unambiguous in respect of which principles UKI is seeking to follow. I say this 
because its own general conditions follow the wording and the approach of the Act.
So, Im satisfied that the Insurance Act applies to Ms Ds claim, rather than the average 
terms in her policy. 
In respect of the rebuild value, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont consider Ms D to 
have breached her duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, even if UKIs survey provides 
a more realistic estimate.
In respect of Ms Ds property being for sale, I accept she had to volunteer information, as per 
the test I set out above. However, Im not persuaded she knew, or ought to have known, the 
intended sale was material to the risk. In any event, UKI hasnt said it wouldnt have offered 
her cover if it had known about the intended sale, and Ive not been told anything that leads 
me to believe more information would have been sought about the rebuild value had she 
notified UKI the property was for sale (which is listed for 1.7m). Therefore, even if by not 
volunteering information about the intended sale Ms D can reasonably be said to have 
breached her duty, Im not persuaded that breach would be qualifying.
So, to summarise, in respect of the rebuild value, Im satisfied Ms D had met her obligations 
under the relevant law; and in respect of the intended sale, even if there was a breach, Im 
not persuaded it would be qualifying. Im also not persuaded UKI had contracted out. In 
those circumstances, the law offers no remedy.
It follows that I dont consider UKI can fairly rely on a policy term thats leads to an outcome 
which is contrary to the law. So, in conclusion, Im satisfied UKI must consider the claim up 
to the policy limits that apply, without applying an average to the claim settlement. 
As I understand it, Ms D has been able to complete some of the repairs. However, I havent 
seen any invoices for the repairs completed; it isnt clear what repairs are outstanding; and 
Ive not seen quotes for the outstanding repairs. As such, Im unable to make a monetary 
award.
In the event Ms D is unhappy with the settlement amount offered after UKI has considered 
the claim, or with its decision about items claimed for, she can make a further complaint 
about those matters.
If UKI accepts the repairs completed so far are covered as part of the claim, it will need to 
pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date Ms D paid the invoices to the date of 
settlement.
Should UKI cover Ms Ds financial losses?
Ms D says shes lost income of £45,000 to £55,000 since the leak. As I understand it, Ms Ds 
hob and oven isnt fully working due to the water damage, and she therefore says she cant 
provide breakfasts. I also understand Ms D was unconformable taking bookings. Although 
UKI assured her it would honour future claims whilst this dispute was ongoing, she didnt 
have any confidence given UKIs position on this claim. She also says she was unable to 
obtain insurance elsewhere as UKI didnt cancel her policy, and another insurer wouldnt 
have offered her cover whilst this claim/investigation was ongoing. I make no findings on 
those points, but I set them out for the benefit of the parties.UKI has requested the financial losses be treated as a new complaint, so it can complete a 
thorough review. Overall, I find UKIs request to be reasonable. I say this because, Ive not 
seen sufficient information and/or arguments at this stage to reasonably decide what, if any, 
financial losses should be covered. I also dont consider it appropriate for me to pre-empt 
UKIs decision. Im more persuaded that its in Ms Ds interests to have UKI consider the 
matter first. Our service can then consider the arguments made, via a new complaint, if 
shes unhappy with UKIs decision.
As such, should Ms D accept my final decision, UKI will need to consider whether her policy 
covers financial losses as a result of the water damage, and if not, whether it should cover 
some of the financial losses due its delays in settling the claim. UKI will also need to 
consider the evidence Ms D is able to provide to support her financial losses. 
What compensation should UKI pay?
The claim was made in November 2020. So, irrespective of financial losses, Im satisfied that 
Ms D should be compensated for the disruption caused by the settlement delays, the upset 
caused by the prospect of only receiving a partial settlement, and the inconvenience of 
having to pursue the matter.
Our investigator recommended £500 compensation be paid, in total. Overall, I dont consider 
£500 goes far enough in respect of acknowledging the claim delays and the impact on Ms D. 
I acknowledge UKI paid £4,500 for a survey to move matters forward, and in doing so it was 
endeavoring to treat Ms D fairly. However, as explained above, Im satisfied UKI should, in 
the first instance, have applied the approach set out in the Insurance Act. The average 
approach taken was to Ms Ds detriment.
Having considered matters carefully and bearing in mind the claim delays are significant, Im 
increasing the compensation to £1,000. I understand UKI has already paid £300 
compensation. If so, a further £700 would be due.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is U K Insurance Limited should:
- consider Ms Ds claim for water damage, up to the policy limits, without applying an 
average to the settlement (should Ms D be unhappy with the settlement offered, or 
with its decision about items claimed for, she can make a further complaint);
- pay 8% simple interest per annum on the repairs already completed by Ms D, if those 
repairs are accepted as part of the claim, from the date she paid the invoices to the 
date of settlement;
- consider whether Ms Ds policy covers financial losses as a result of the leak, and if 
not, whether it should cover some of her claimed financial losses due its delays in 
settling the claim (should Ms D be unhappy with its decision, she can make a 
further complaint); and
- pay Ms D £1,000 compensation, in total (if £300 has already been paid, a further 
£700 would be due).If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. If requested, it should also provide 
her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman