DRN-3784632
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Omni Financial Ltd (Omni) retained the advice fee paid on the transfer 
of a personal pension. She believes the fee should be returned to her because she 
exercised her cooling off rights due to her having lost faith with her adviser.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs M were referred to Omni by their accountant in order to obtain 
financial advice. Following a number of meetings, calls and emails, a recommendation was 
made in October 2020 covering pensions, life cover and wills, and information was provided 
in relation to mortgages. 
During October and November 2020, Mrs M and Omni communicated regularly. The pension 
transfer forms were scanned and emailed to the adviser on 29 November 2020 dated 28 
November 2020, and forwarded to AJ Bell, the receiving pension provider. An email on 3rd 
December 2020 confirms that the cash value of the pension fund had been received by AJ 
Bell.
However following the increase in premiums of the life cover, an administration error leading 
to another client being erroneously copied into an email, and some unexpected emails being 
received from AJ Bell (the new pension provider), Mrs M decided she no longer wished to go 
ahead with the products recommended.
She returned the cancellation form to AJ Bell on 11 December 2020 who liaised with Aviva 
to facilitate the return of the pension funds, however due to the funds already having been 
invested, the servicing adviser needed to disinvest the funds. The pension included 22 
funds, however Omni instructed only 21 to be disinvested, resulting in the pension not being 
returned to Aviva. When this error came to light, AJ Bell agreed to disinvest the remaining 
fund (and waive the charge for this), and the fund was returned to Aviva. AJ Bell have 
acknowledged that they could have done more to ensure that the return of funds was 
processed quickly, and have offered a payment of £100 to Mrs M to reflect this. The fund 
value returned to Aviva was the current value, less the advice charge which had been paid 
to Omni in December 2020 when the fund was initially transferred.
On 11 June 2021 Mrs M emailed the adviser to request a return of the advice charge that 
had been taken from her pension fund, and on receiving no reply from Omni, sent emails 
chasing this on 19 June, 11 July and 9 August 2021. 
As she did not receive a reply, Mrs M referred her to complaint to us. Our investigator did not 
think that Omni had acted unreasonably and did not uphold the complaint. Mrs M did not 
accept this and as a result the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 25 October 2022. It said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The issue that needs to be decided is 
whether it is fair for Omni to refund the advice charge paid from Mrs Ms pension fund.
I am providing this provisional decision as, based on everything I have seen thus far, I intend 
to depart from the investigators recommendations. 
Mrs M states that she decided to exercise her cooling off rights due to the conduct of her 
adviser, Omni. Cooling off/cancellation rights exist to ensure that customers are able to 
change their mind. Mrs M states that she changed her mind having lost faith with her adviser 
and his (in her view) lack of professionalism. It is noted that she does not claim that she was 
unhappy with the advice provided or felt it was unsuitable for her needs and circumstances.
Having reviewed the correspondence between Mrs M and Omni, I do not believe that Omni 
acted unreasonably during the initial stages of the process prior to the pension transfer 
application. Mrs M states that she felt the process was rushed and felt disjointed, messy and 
confusing, however the communications on file do not support this. The initial meetings took 
place in August, with the illustrations being provided in September and the suitability report 
being issued 23 October. There is nothing on file to suggest that the adviser was pushing or 
rushing Mrs M in any way, and she submitted the pension transfer forms on 29 November 
2020. I therefore do not believe that Omni had acted unreasonably in their actions until that 
point.
Mrs M states that she lost faith in Omni when the premiums for the life cover were increased 
following medical underwriting, the business inadvertently copied in another client to Mrs Ms 
email, and Mrs M received emails from AJ Bell during the night. She then emailed Omni to 
say she wanted to put the applications on hold. I have reviewed the emails and 
correspondence relating to these issues. When Omni was informed that the life cover 
premiums were to be increased, the adviser made contact with Mr & Mrs M in order to 
discuss this. Mr & Mrs M acknowledge that they were aware that the premiums could be 
increased, but were not expecting the level of increase to be as much as it was. As an 
adviser, the business would be expected to inform their clients of this possibility, however 
could not reasonably be expected to know the level of rating that would be applied following 
medical underwriting for all medical conditions. I therefore dont think Omni did anything 
wrong here. 
Mrs M was very concerned that another client was copied in to an email addressed to her. 
This was a worrying lapse on the part of Omni and I can see why Mrs M was concerned by 
this. However, Ive reviewed the email and whilst it includes information relating to Mr & Mrs 
Ms health, and the impact of their health conditions on their life assurance premiums, I 
havent seen anything which makes me think this information could have been used in a way 
that caused Mrs M financial harm. There is no indication from Mrs M that this has been the 
case. Whilst Ive considered the impact on Mrs M, it doesnt seem to me that further 
compensation is warranted here.
The final concern for Mrs M was when she received emails during the night from AJ Bell. 
She states that she did not know who AJ Bell were and thought it was a scam. Mrs M had 
been provided illustrations and a suitability report referencing the transfer to AJ Bell, and had 
completed a transfer form to them. It would therefore be reasonable to consider that Mrs M would have an awareness of AJ Bell being her new pension provider, and recognised 
correspondence from them as being linked to her recent pension transfer. In any event, this 
complaint is against Omni which isnt responsible for AJ Bells actions.
Although Omni fell short of their duty of care in protecting Mrs Ms data, there is nothing to 
suggest that their other actions in dealing with Mrs M were unreasonable in the period 
leading to her cancelling her pension transfer. However, Mrs M was within her rights to do 
this. I cover this aspect of her complaint next.
I have reviewed the documentation provided to Mrs M relating to the advice fee, which was 
3% of the fund being transferred. At outset, Mrs & Mrs M were provided with an initial 
disclosure document setting out the services offered by Omni, as well as a fee agreement 
stating the specific charge applying to them. This fee was reflected in the pension switching 
report provided, and the suitability report issued. It was stated that the charge was for advice 
and implementation of that advice and it would be facilitated from the pension fund. The 
report confirms that the charge would not be payable if Mrs M did not proceed with the 
transfer. Although Mrs M exercised her cooling off rights, she did so following the advice to 
transfer, and as stated above, has not indicated at any time that she was dissatisfied with 
the advice itself. However, the purpose of the cooling off period is to return the client to the 
position that they had been if theyd not proceeded with the recommendation. The 
information provided did not inform Mrs M that she would need to pay an advice fee in these 
circumstances. For the above reasons it is reasonable to consider that Mrs M would have 
understood that exercising her cooling off rights would not lead to her incurring the advice 
fee. 
Omni have confirmed in an email dated 24 February 2022 that Mrs Ms advice fee was not 
refunded because she did not cancel within the cooling off period. This suggests that they 
would refund a fee if the cancellation was within the cooling off period (as was the case 
here). Omni have been given an opportunity to clarify why they no longer believe Mrs M 
should be refunded. Whilst they have reconfirmed their views relating to the chain of events, 
good service and suitable advice received by Mr & Mrs M, they have not directly addressed 
what they said on 24 February.  Within the response, Omni have raised the point that the 
analysis, review and report provided were time consuming and for this, they expected to be 
paid in accordance with the agreement with Mr & Mrs M. 
I have reviewed the documentation provided to identify what is fair and whether Mrs M could 
reasonably expect to have to pay the advice charge if she exercised her cooling off rights. 
Omni have confirmed they issued Mrs M with a copy of the suitability report, which has been 
provided. This refers to the initial fee and states Please note that this fee is not subject to 
VAT and will not be payable if you do not proceed with my advice. This indicates that they 
would not expect to be paid for the analysis, research and report in the event that the 
transfer did not go ahead. By exercising the cooling off rights, Mrs M has effectively put 
herself in the position of the transfer not going ahead. It is therefore fair to consider that Mrs 
M would not have expected to have to pay the advice charge in this case. 
Mr & Mrs M were provided with a client agreement setting out the fees that would be 
charged, both for the initial advice and for the ongoing service. It is noted that Omni have 
confirmed that this was not signed, but that Mr M gave his verbal agreement to the adviser. 
Omni state that it was their process that in order to cancel the transfer, Mrs M should have 
completed the bottom of the agreement (identified as a Cancellation Form), signed and 
returned it to them. Having reviewed the client agreement referenced, I cannot agree that it 
is reasonable to consider that Mrs M would have understood that in order to exercise her 
cooling off rights in relation to her pension transfer she would have to sign and return the 
cancellation form. The form itself refers to the cancellation of the agreement for the supply of 
Financial Advice Services rather than relating to cancelling the transfer itself. The documentation provided to Mrs M by AJ Bell did reference the cooling off rights and provided 
the contact details which Mrs M used in order to do this. 
Whilst it is accurate to state that Mrs M did not inform Omni of her intention to cancel her 
pension with AJ Bell within the cooling off period, she did inform AJ Bell of her intention 
within the required timescales, thereby exercising her rights in an appropriate period of time. 
It is therefore reasonable to consider that in line with Omnis own statement outlined above, 
that they would be expected to refund Mrs Ms advice fee due to her timely cancellation of 
the transfer to AJ Bell. I therefore uphold this part of Mrs Ms complaint. I explain what Omni 
should do below.
The correspondence shows that despite having had regular communication with Mrs M until 
December 2020, following her cancelling her transfer to AJ Bell, Omni did not maintain this. 
Mrs M sent an initial email on 11 June 2021 requesting a refund which was unanswered, 
which she followed up on 19 June 2021. On 21 June, Omni stated that they would review the 
file and come back to her. This did not happen, and Mrs M sent further emails chasing the 
adviser on 11 July and 9 August which were also unanswered. This lack of response has 
caused Mrs M stress and worry, and prompted her to forward her complaint to this service. I 
have considered whether Omni acted unreasonably during the period from 11 June to 9 
August 2021. Considering the circumstances and events that had preceded this, I think it is 
reasonable to consider that professional standards suggest that Omni should have 
responded to Mrs Ms requests for a reply. It is reasonable to consider that Mrs M would 
have felt frustrated to have to keep recontacting Omni in relation to the refund of a fee she 
felt was due to her and concerned by the potential impact on her pension. I therefore  think 
an award for distress and inconvenience is warranted. I consider an award of £200 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the concern encountered by Mrs M and her having to 
chase the adviser for responses.
Putting things right
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Omni should refund the amount of £1,655.79, reflecting the fee 
paid with interest at 8% added from the date Mrs M exercised her cancellation rights to the 
date compensation is paid. In addition to this, Omni should pay Mrs M £200 in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their lack of responses following her exercising her 
cancellation rights. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided I see no reason to change my decision. So I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman