DRN-3735964
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y have complained about the settlement Amtrust Europe Limited has offered for 
a claim they made under their Furniture Protection Plan extended warranty.
What happened
Amtrust accepted a claim for damage to an item of Mr and Mrs Ys furniture. Amtrust 
decided the furniture couldnt be repaired, so it offered to settle the claim by re-selection 
which would allow Mr and Mrs Y to select a new item from the original retailer up to the value 
of their original item. The value they offered for re-selection was the original purchase price 
of the damaged item plus 50% toward the cost of replacing their undamaged matching 
items. Or it said it would pay cash up to the estimated cost to Amtrust of repairing or 
replacing the damaged item.
Mr and Mrs Y chose the re-selection option and found a suitable replacement item they 
wanted from the original retailer, which was discounted. But Amtrust said the conditions of 
re-selection stated any re-selection item could not be on a reduced offer. Mr and Mrs Y felt 
this was unfair as their original furniture had been purchased on a reduced offer too.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. He initially felt it should be 
upheld. He explained that the re-selection discount conditions werent explained in the terms 
and conditions of the policy and that Mr and Mrs Ys furniture was initially purchased on a 
reduced offer. So, he said Amtrust should allow them to select the replacement they wanted, 
or that it should pay a cash settlement equal to the value of the re-selection offer.
Amtrust didnt accept our investigators opinion. It said it couldnt increase the cash 
settlement offer as the amount offered was in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Amtrust said it doesnt allow re-selections on reduced items as discounts arent available to 
all customers. So, to be fair to all its customers it insists that re-selections must be on fully 
priced items.
Our investigator reconsidered his findings in light of Amtrusts response and changed his 
opinion. He explained that Mr and Mrs Ys policy covered them for the original purchase 
price, and that Amtrusts offer delivered that. He also said Amtrusts reason for restricting re-
selections to fully priced items was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt accept our investigators revised opinion. So as no agreement had been 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigators revised opinion. So, I issued 
a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional 
findings, before I reached my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators first opinion for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ys policy document explains the limits to their cover:
The most the Insurer will pay under this Furniture Protection Plan is 
limited to the original purchase price of your product up to a maximum 
of £15,000 (including VAT). If any item of furniture is replaced 
following a successful claim no further cover will be available under 
this Plan for that replacement item.
The policy document also sets out how Amtrust will settle claims in the event 
an item is deemed unrepairable:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the 
damaged part. In the event of this not being possible, (redacted) may 
at its sole discretion provide a replacement product(s). Alternatively, 
(redacted) may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash 
payment instead of a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement will 
be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement by 
(redacted).
Mr and Mrs Ys original furniture was purchased at a discount. And nothing in 
the policy terms and conditions mentions that replacements (re-selections) 
will be restricted to non-discounted items. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this restriction was highlighted to Mr and Mrs Y prior to 
purchasing the policy. It only appears to have been mentioned after their 
claim had been accepted. So, I dont think its fair for Amtrust to apply this 
restriction when Mr and Mrs Y wouldnt have been aware of it when they 
decided to purchase the policy.
I also dont accept Amtrusts logic that by allowing Mr and Mrs Y to re-select a 
discounted item means it would be treating other customers unfairly. As I see 
it, Amtrust is simply offering a settlement equal to the original value of the 
furniture, as its required to and as it would do with any other policyholder. By 
offering such a settlement to any two policyholders in the same position, it 
would have treated both equally and fairly. If one of those policyholders then 
manages to negotiate a discount with the retailer, I think thats between them 
and the retailer and doesnt amount to Amtrust treating either unfairly.
Ultimately, Amtrust is the insurer and as such has the power to set the terms 
of cover. So, if it wanted to restrict replacement items to non-discounted 
products, it ought to have written this restriction into the terms and conditions 
of the policy. So, as the settlement restriction isnt in the terms, and as I dont accept that 
its an essential restriction to ensure Amtrust treats all customers fairly, I think 
Amtrust should allow Mr and Mrs Y to use their re-selection offer on a 
discounted item, provided said item meets the remaining requirements of the 
policy terms. Alternatively, Amtrust should pay a cash settlement equal to the 
full value of the re-selection offer its made to Mr and Mrs Y.
I set out that I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint and to direct Amtrust to 
either allow Mr and Mrs Y to use their re-selection offer on a discounted item or to pay a 
cash settlement equal to the full value of the re-selection offer.
I said Id wait two weeks to allow the parties to make further representations before I 
reached a final decision. However, both sides responded promptly to confirm that they 
accepted my provisional findings and/or had nothing further to add before I reached my 
decision. So, as Ive had responses from both parties, Im moving forward with this, my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any additional evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Amtrust Europe Limited must either:
Allow Mr and Mrs Y to use their re-selection offer on a discounted item.
Or
Pay a cash settlement equal to the full value of the re-selection offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman