DRN-4198630
The complaint
Mr H, as sole Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) for Mr C, complains that Nationwide Building 
Society refused to re-instate an overdraft on Mr Cs account that Mr H had removed in error. 
Mr H says Mr Cs account was registered at Mr Hs address and despite a request to change 
it back, this hasnt happened, and this has affected Mr Hs credit file.
What happened
Whilst dealing with Mr Cs affairs Mr H accidentally removed a small overdraft on Mr Cs 
current account. When Mr H asked to have the overdraft re-instated, Nationwide provided 
some conflicting information but explained to Mr H that, as an LPA, he couldnt apply for an 
overdraft facility for Mr C. Mr H complained that he hadnt been told this was the case and 
asked that Nationwide show him where this is stated in its policies. Mr H said he felt this 
discriminated against Mr C. Nationwide thought that it followed its processes and explained 
an LPA cant apply for new credit on an account.
Mr H also complained that Nationwide had changed Mr Cs address to an incorrect address. 
Nationwide accepted this happened and explained this had been quickly corrected and it 
hadnt sent out any correspondence to an incorrect address. 
Mr H brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that as Nationwide had now 
accepted the overdraft could be re-instated but still hadnt actually re-instated it, that this part 
of the complaint should be upheld. The Investigator thought that Mr H wouldve been made 
aware at the time he registered to become the LPA on Mr Cs account that he would be 
unable to apply for credit on the account  this includes arranging an overdraft. The 
Investigator thought that Nationwides error in changing Mr Cs address to one that was 
incorrect couldve been avoided if it had notified Mr H as Mr Cs POA of the change of 
address.
The Investigator thought that Nationwide should re-instate the overdraft and pay Mr C £75 
for the inconvenience caused.
Nationwide accepted it should pay Mr C 75 for the inconvenience it caused and confirmed 
the overdraft facility had been re-instated the overdraft. Mr H asked that an Ombudsman 
decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is authorised in law to represent Mr C, but that doesnt mean Mr H is an eligible 
complainant in his own right and we wouldnt award compensation for any impact caused to 
Mr H. The crux of the complaints Mr H has made on behalf of Mr C are Nationwide said it 
wouldnt re-instate the overdraft Mr H had removed in error; that Nationwide didnt tell Mr H 
that Mr Cs account must be registered at Mr Hs address and made an error in registering 
an incorrect address; and that Nationwide didnt provide Mr H with the policies relating to 
LPAs at the time of registration. I will address each of these complaints and respond to the 
relevant comments Mr H has provided. For clarity I can confirm Ive read all of Mr Hs 
responses to the thoughts of the Investigator.
Overdraft and provision of policies for POA
Theres no dispute that Mr H removed the overdraft on Mr Cs account. In his discussions 
with Nationwide Mr H was told the overdraft could be re-instated, then that it couldnt as he 
couldnt apply for credit on behalf of Mr C. Nationwide referred Mr H to the declaration he 
agreed to when registering the Lasting Power of Attorney and explained the POA can never 
apply for or increase credit  including overdrafts  on an account. However, this wasnt 
really a new application for credit  or even a request to increase an existing facility  it was 
a request made by Mr H to correct his error. 
Having reviewed the evidence it seems to me that Nationwide didnt take ownership of the 
problem Mr H had experienced. I dont think the conversations Mr H had with inexperienced 
staff helped Mr H to resolve the overdraft issue as quickly as it should have. Nationwide now 
accepts it couldve re-instated the overdraft in the circumstances of this case and Mr H has 
confirmed to the Investigator that the overdraft has now been re-applied. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable outcome, but it doesnt address that Mr C was without the overdraft for some 
time and that the information Nationwide provided was not always a clear as it should have 
been, nor was it provided as quickly as it should have been.
Mr H says he feels Nationwides actions in this regard are discriminatory on the grounds of 
Mr Cs disability. I should first explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service, 
meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or not Nationwide is in breach of the 
Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant 
law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a complaint. While I understand Mr H is frustrated with how Nationwide 
acted, I dont think it has acted unreasonably or unfairly. I say this because the policies 
Nationwide applied were made to protect Mr C, and its more likely than not Mr H would have 
been made aware of these policies at the time he registered the LPA at a Nationwide 
branch. Nationwide says the policies were read to him on the local branch and Mr H signed 
to say he understood them. Regardless of this, Nationwide does explain on its website that 
Attorney cant apply for credit on behalf of someone else. Mr H would have reasonably been 
able to make an informed decision about what an Attorney was permitted to do when acting 
for Mr C, but I think it would have made it much clearer to Mr H if Nationwide had sent a 
copy of its policies in the regard when it was requested to do so.
Registered address and information 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr H after he registered the LPA. This 
letter explains all correspondence for Mr C would be sent to Mr Hs address, and that Mr H 
could change that if he wished to. Ive seen a sample registration of power of attorney form 
that Nationwide use, and this too suggests that the address can be changed by the POA at 
any time; it can be either Mr Hs address or Mr Cs address. Nationwide confirmed to Mr H in 
August 2022 that hed selected correspondence on Mr Cs account to be sent to him in 
December 2020. 
The address for correspondence for Mr Cs account was changed back to Mr Cs home 
address in November 2022. Nationwide initially made a mistake when it made this change, 
but this was corrected several days later when it became aware. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Nationwide sent any communication to the incorrect address during this period. I 
appreciate Mr H is concerned there may have been a data breach, but he will need to contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in this regard.
I understand Mr H believes Nationwide has reported credit information for Mr Cs account to 
credit reference agencies using Mr Hs address. Nationwide says it hasnt reported anything 
to Mr Hs credit file and Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case. Mr H says that 
Nationwides response to his complaint letter of August 2022 confirmed that the registered 
address of the account will be that of the LPA and they refused to amend the account 
address to that of Mr C. But I think Nationwide made its position in this regard clear. It said, 
it couldnt have an address for a member {Mr C} who doesnt hold capacity to deal with their 
finances and therefore the address it would use would be the attorneys address {Mr H}. I 
think this reflects what is included in Nationwides policies and I dont think its an 
unreasonable approach. Nationwide Data Disputes Referrals Team confirmed that Mr Hs 
address is showing as a linked address to Mr Cs account and not the registered address of 
the account. This seems reasonable to me as it would likely support Mr H in carrying out his 
duties as POA. However, Nationwide has offered to remove the linked address if Mr H 
contacts it. Although I appreciate Mr Hs has concerns here, based on what Nationwide has 
done previously, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer if he has ongoing concerns. If he 
wishes this to be done, Mr H should contact Nationwide direct.
Nationwide has already re-instated the overdraft, but I think it would have been reasonable 
for it to have done so much earlier than it did. However, Ive decided that Nationwide should 
also pay Mr C £75 for the errors it made in relation to the change of address, an 
unreasonable delay in re-stating the overdraft, and for failing to send Mr H copies of the 
policies hed requested several times. I understand Mr H has been sent a link to the 
Nationwide policies during the investigation, but it may be prudent for Nationwide to consider 
sending Mr H hard copies of the policies relating to power of attorneys to avoid any further 
confusion in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided that Nationwide Building Society should 
pay the sum of £75 to Mr Cs account as compensation for the errors it made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman