DRN-3800391
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Barclays Bank UKs decision to close his account.  Hes also unhappy 
that Barclays havent provided him with an explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a 
customer.
What happened
Mr B had several accounts with Barclays  a personal account, business account and credit 
card. This decision will focus on Mr Bs complaint regarding his personal account.
In September 2021, Barclays reviewed Mr Bs account.  Following its review Barclays 
decided to close Mr Bs account immediately. 
Mr B contacted Barclays to try and find out what was happening with his account and the 
reasons behind the banks actions. He explained that hed been a customer of the bank for 
many years and hadnt done anything that would result in his account being closed.
Barclays didnt provide Mr B with much information and said it wasnt obliged to provide Mr B 
with the reasons why it had decided to close his account. However, it said it had made a 
mistake and should have given Mr B 60 days notice that his account would be closed 
instead of closing Mr Bs account immediately. Barclays apologised and paid Mr B £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said the amount of compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble 
and upset hed been caused.  He explained that the sudden closure of his account made 
things very difficult to manage financially. He said it had meant a number of his direct debits 
went unpaid, he couldnt receive his wages and was charged fees and fines for missing 
payments. And having to restart his gym membership. Mr B said that the whole experience 
had been upsetting and stressful. He wants more compensation and a proper explanation for 
why the bank no longer wants him as a customer.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint. She said Barclays werent obliged to 
provide an explanation for closing Mr Bs account and said that she hadnt seen any 
evidence of financial loss or impact, so she thought it had done enough to put things right. 
Mr B disagreed. He maintained he hasnt done anything that would lead to the bank closing 
his account. He said he wants Barclays to be punished, that the investigator is biased, and 
the amount of compensation is pathetic.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr B has said he is concerned that the investigator is biased and has simply sided 
with the bank  with the implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions 
inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach 
is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that 
evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr B does not agree with our view, 
he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision he will be free to 
continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, 
advise him on how to go about doing that.
As the adjudicator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their 
decisions about that in a legitimate manner. 
It seems Mr B understands and accepts this point. But he wants to know why Barclays wont 
provide him with banking services. But Barclays isnt required to give a reason for closing an 
account, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
him this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require them to do so.
Barclays can close accounts in certain circumstances and it sets this out in the terms and 
conditions of accounts. Ive looked at the terms relating to Mr Bs account and they state that 
the bank can close an account immediately  or give notice of around two months. Barclays 
accepts it shouldnt have closed Mr Bs account immediately and that it should have given 
him 60 days notice. I think the two months notice would have given Mr B enough time to 
make alternative banking arrangements. And having looked at whats happened here I agree 
the bank should have given Mr B more time.
I know Mr B is upset that Barclays closed his account  regardless of how much notice he 
was given. But having looked at all the information available to me, including Barclays 
actions and the information its provided Im satisfied overall that the bank had sufficient 
grounds to close Mr Bs account. So, I wont be asking them to reopen his account.
I can appreciate finding out that the account being closed immediately would have been a 
shock to Mr B. Barclays has apologised and paid Mr B £100 compensation for any trouble 
and upset the lack of notice caused him. Mr B wants more compensation and has explained 
a number of his direct debits went unpaid and he had to pay unnecessary fines and fees. 
The adjudicator asked Mr B to provide evidence to support what hed said. But Mr B said 
due to the time that has passed since he made his complaint, he can no longer provide 
anything.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about how Barclays actions impacted him and Ive no 
doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. There isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact 
Barclays actions have had on Mr B and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
I agree some compensation is appropriate. I say this because Mr B had to suddenly find 
another personal account and reorganise each of his direct debit payments immediately. Mr B also says he had to quickly sort out his wages to be paid into another account. So, I 
can appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient and upsetting for Mr B. And its only right 
that Barclays recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of 
compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr B was caused. I understand 
Mr B doesnt think this goes far enough given the amount of distress and inconvenience he 
says hes suffered. But its important to note that it isnt the role of this service to punish or 
fine businesses for their mistakes or standard of service.
So, while Mr B may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation already paid 
recognises the impact Barclays actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
So, I wont be directing Barclays to pay any more.  In reaching this conclusion Ive kept in 
mind that Mr B appears to have had other accounts at the time which he still could access, 
so I think the impact of the account closure would have been reduced. And I havent seen 
any evidence to show Mr B suffered a financial loss as a result Barclays not providing him 
with more notice about his account closure. So, Im not going to ask the bank to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Im not going to ask Barclays Bank 
UK to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman