DRN-1745411
 
The complaint
Mrs C says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy in May 1999. 
What happened
Mrs C purchased an MPPI policy in May 1999 when she took out a mortgage with HSBC. 
The policy was free for the first six months and then it cost around £20 each month. It 
covered Mrs C in the event she lost her job and was unemployed or if she wasnt working 
due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £350 for up to 12 
months following a successful claim. The policy was cancelled in February 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely HSBC made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the MPPI and she 
chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if she cant remember this given 
the meeting took place more than 20 years ago. I say this because in order to take out the 
MPPI, customers needed to complete and sign a separate application form. And Ive seen a 
copy of Mrs Cs MPPI application form  Midland Mortgage Repayment Protector. Moreover, 
Ive also seen a copy of the separate Direct Debit mandate Mrs C completed and signed so 
that she could pay for the MPPI each month. So Im satisfied she knew shed purchased 
MPPI and had agreed to pay for it.
Its impossible for me to know what, if anything, Mrs C was told about the policy when she 
discussed it with the HSBC representative, and I accept its possible she was told she had to 
have it. However, having weighed up the available evidence, I think its more likely she was 
told she should purchase MPPI, rather than told she must purchase MPPI. So, taking this 
into account along with what I know about how these sales were conducted, Im satisfied the 
policy was optional and I think its more likely that Mrs C was given a choice about the MPPI.
HSBC didnt advise Mrs C to buy the policy  so I think its most likely that HSBC didnt 
recommend the policy. This means HSBC just had to make sure Mrs C had enough 
information about the PPI. And it was for Mrs C to decide whether or not she needed the 
policy once shed taken in account any savings or employee sick pay.
I dont know what information HSBC gave Mrs C or how it was presented, so its possible 
she didnt get everything she needed. But Ive looked at her circumstances at the time to establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference to her 
decision to take the PPI.
I think Mrs C wouldve been able to benefit from the full range of cover she paid for. Mrs C 
wouldnt have been excluded from claiming under any of the main terms or exclusions  she 
was in permanent employment and she told us she was in good health.
Mrs C says she wouldve received a good level of sick pay from her employer if she wasnt 
working  six months full pay followed by six months half pay  but this policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to her sick pay and for longer too. So I think the policy offered a useful benefit 
to her. And this may have been important to her because she was solely responsible for 
maintaining her mortgage payments.
Mrs C told us she couldve relied on her partner to help out. Whilst I understand the point 
she seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that her partners circumstances wouldve 
allowed them to help her at some unknown point in the future, or that any help wouldve 
been long-term.
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the cover it provided and it was a regular premium 
one  so if she decided it was no longer affordable or that she no longer needed it  she 
couldve cancelled it without penalty at any point.
Summary
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont think Mrs C would have decided against 
taking it out if she had been better informed. It seems more likely to me that she had some 
interest in protecting her mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman