DRN-4447259
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc dealt with a claim on her 
gadget insurance policy
What happened
Ms D had insurance cover for three different electrical gadgets, which she took out in 2020 
and renewed in 2021 and 2022.
On 30 December 2022 she called Domestic & General to make a claim for all three items, 
which had been damaged following an incident in her home. She was transferred to the 
contractor Domestic & General used for repairs, to arrange an appointment.
Ms D called back later that day saying had spoken to the contractor who said there was no 
record of the jobs. The call handler offered to call the contractor about this.
She called again later that day to say she had spoken to the contactor again but was still 
unable to arrange anything. She then said she wanted to make a complaint.
On 13 January 2023 Domestic & General called Ms D about the complaint. The call handler 
had phoned the contractor to book the repair jobs and spoke to Ms D to confirm this. Ms D 
again said she said was unhappy with the contractor  she said they were unpleasant, 
obstructive and racist. The call handler explained that an appointment had been fixed with 
the contractor for a few days later and the contractor had promised to call her to confirm this 
and apologise to her, but Ms D said she didnt want to proceed with the repairs and 
cancelled her policy.
Domestic & General sent a final response to Ms D the same day saying:
The behaviour of the contractor didnt meet the expected standards and it was sorry 
it had acted unprofessionally.
The contractor said there wasnt an existing claim for the three items, but one had 
now been set up and an appointment arranged for 20 January.
It had offered a return of premiums for the period when she was without the use of 
the gadgets but Ms D had rejected that offer and said she wanted to cancel the 
policy.
Domestic & General said it was sorry Ms D had had to make repeated calls and upheld her 
complaint, but didnt offer any compensation.
Ms D referred her complaint to this Service. Our investigator said if Ms D didnt want to use 
Domestic & Generals contractor, she needed to provide a report setting out the cause of the 
damage to her gadgets.
The investigator didnt think Ms D had shown that shed been discriminated against but 
thought some compensation should be paid for the poor service provided. She asked 
Domestic & General to pay £50.
Domestic & General agreed to this but Ms D didnt. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Domestic 
& General to pay compensation of £200. I set out my reasons as follows:
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy covers breakdown (after the end of the manufacturers guarantee) and accidental 
damage. It sets out that claims will be dealt with as follows:
Domestic & General will  at its option  authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or 
pay the cost of a replacement.
Only its authorised engineers will carry out repairs, unless agreed otherwise in 
advance.
If it authorises repairs but is unable to find an engineer, it will agree to the customers 
choice, but they have to pay for the repairs and then claim the cost back.
It may authorise a replacement instead of repairs, for example where the gadget 
cant be repaired or its not economical to repair it.
So when Ms D made a claim, Domestic & General should have arranged for the gadgets to 
be repaired or, if that wasnt possible, replaced. It was entitled to use its own authorised 
engineers unless it agreed to Ms Ds choice.
Ms D made clear in her calls to Domestic & General her concerns about the contractors. And 
despite a number of calls from both Ms D and Domestic & General , it wasnt until 13 
January 2023 that an appointment was arranged for them to inspect the gadgets.
I cant say what caused the problems with the contractor or whether Ms D was discriminated 
against. But Ive thought carefully about how Domestic & General dealt with the issues Ms D 
raised.
Ive listened to Ms Ds calls with Domestic & General. Its clear she was concerned about 
how the contractor had dealt with things. And she explained that shed had problems with 
them in the past, when a previous claim wasnt handled well and shed had to complain. 
The contractor was denying any record of the claims, even though Domestic & General told 
Ms D it had spoken to the contractor. And as Ive explained, it took many calls to get things 
moving.
In the initial calls with Domestic & General its call handlers told Ms D:
if the contractors didnt come and deal with the repairs she could can easily get a 
replacement instead;
someone would be in touch in a few days to discuss if anything further was needed 
and if she wasnt comfortable working with that contractor they could try and find 
someone else.
I think it would have been reasonable for Domestic & General to look into using a different 
contractor. Despite the above comments, that wasnt considered. In the call responding to 
her complaint, the call handler didnt really listen to what Ms D was saying or seem to take 
on board her concerns. This would have been frustrating for Ms D.
Having said that, by this time the contractor had agreed to call Ms D to apologise and an 
appointment had been arranged for a few days later. If Ms D had allowed the contractor to visit, it might have been possible to deal with the repairs (or replacement, if necessary). If 
there had been further problems, she could still have asked for a different contractor and 
pursued her complaint further.
Instead, she decided to cancel the insurance. That meant it wasnt then possible to deal with 
the claim. So while I understand she was upset, her action in cancelling the policy prevented 
any further opportunity to deal with the claim.
Ms D has said shed like an apology; the return of all her premiums; and the purchase price 
of all three items paid to her. Shes referred to this as punitive damages for the way she 
was treated.
Its not for me to punish firms or regulate the way they carry out their business. Where 
something has gone wrong, my role is to say what should happen to put things right for the 
individual concerned. When Ms D raised concerns about how her claim was being dealt with 
I dont think Domestic & General did enough to address this. It stuck rigidly to the use of its 
contractors without considering whether that was reasonable in the circumstances. This 
caused Ms D unnecessary distress. She was also put to the inconvenience of having to 
make repeated phone calls to get things moving. I dont know whether it would have been 
possible to find another contractor in Ms Ds area that was able to deal with the jobs, but the 
opportunity to look into this was lost.
Taking all of the above into account I think a compensation payment of £200 would be fair.
Replies to the provisional decision 
Domestic & General hasnt replied to the provisional decision or provided any further 
comments but Ms D has replied to say she accepts the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms D has accepted the provisional decision and Domestic & General hasnt provided any 
further comments for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
So it remains my view that the fair way to resolve the complaint is for Ms D to be paid 
compensation of £200.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay compensation to 
Ms D of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman