DRN-3832954
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) carried 
out insufficient affordability checks before it gave him loans. 
What happened
Mr R took five loans from Lending Stream between August 2011 and April 2012. A summary 
of his borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment 
per 
agreement
1 £315.00 12/08/2011 17/11/2011 6 £157.50
2 £95.00 21/09/2011 17/11/2011 4 £60.17
3 £125.00 09/11/2011 17/11/2011 5 £68.75
gap in lending of four months
4 £315.00 30/03/2012 written off 6 £157.50
5 £125.00 02/04/2012 written off 5 £68.75
Lending Stream says that Mr R withdrew from the credit agreement for loan 3, and so only 
minimal interest was charged. Lending Stream also said the outstanding balances that were 
due for loans 4 and 5 were written off in November 2019. 
Lending Stream considered Mr Rs complaint and issued its final response letter in 
March 2022. Lending Stream said looking at the information Mr R declared to it about his 
income and expenditure for loans 1  4 he had sufficient amounts of disposable income to 
afford the loan repayments. However, in relation to loan 5, it said:
 we have thought about the number of loans and the time between each loan 
being taken out. We can see that it might not have been a good idea for us to make 
these loans.
So, we are partially agreeing to your complaint.
Lending Stream then proposed to pay the following compensation  in total, it said Mr R was 
due a refund of £168.32 (after adding 8% simple interest and deducting tax). It also said it 
would remove any adverse markers on his credit file in relation to this loan. 
Mr R didnt accept the offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator and he didnt consider loan 5 because 
Lending Stream had already accepted it shouldnt have been granted. Instead, his view 
focused on loans 1  4. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  4 because he concluded 
Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks before it granted them, and the income 
and expenditure details as well as the credit search results showed the loans were 
affordable. The adjudicator also thought it hadnt yet reached the stage where information 
needed to be verified. 
Lending Stream acknowledged the adjudicators assessment and explained it had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr R didnt agree with the outcome that was reached by the adjudicator about loans 1 - 4. In 
summary he said:
When Mr R asked for his personal information from Lending Stream as part of a 
DSAR (data subject access request) no information about the credit checks were 
given to him. 
Mr R is concerned that Lending Stream has provided the Financial Ombudsman 
information which wasnt provided to him under the DSAR  this could open it up to 
another complaint. 
Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by providing these loans. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr R explaining he used the credit checks provided by 
Lending Stream. In terms of what was provided as part of a DSAR, the adjudicator asked for 
the information Mr R was given by Lending Stream. 
Mr R provided the documents he received from Lending Stream and in addition Mr R made 
the following points;
No credit checks results were provided to Mr R as part of his DSAR  and it was 
required to provide them.
If these results have been provided to the Financial Ombudsman than 
Lending Stream is in breach of the relevant regulations. 
Mr R says the figure inputted for his expenditure is incorrect and was added by 
Lending Stream at a later date. 
It is the ombudsmans duty to investigate Lending Stream for not providing all the 
information to him, as requested. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
After the case was allocated for a decision, the adjudicator sent a copy of the information we 
had received from Lending Stream to Mr R and which was used by the adjudicator to form 
his view on the case. 
In response to the information, Mr R said that if we are accepting the information from 
Lending Stream about the credit checks then we are basically committing a level of 
double standards. Mr R says the information isnt evidence that Lending Stream carried out 
a credit search because the spreadsheet provided by Lending Stream couldve been made 
up. 
Mr R said he was trying to gather further information, but even though I can see the 
adjudicator has emailed to ask him for an update no response has been received. 
Therefore, in order to break the deadlock on this case, Im content to progress the complaint 
for a final decision as I have, in my view sufficient information to be able to come to a view 
on whether Lending Stream did anything wrong when it granted these loans.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Stream s checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors 
include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Details of the information Mr R received as part of his DSAR do show much of the same 
information that Lending Stream provided the Financial Ombudsman. However, it does 
appear from the information Mr R has sent us, that details of the credit search summary 
(which I go into more detail below) werent sent to him. 
However, it isnt appropriate, in this decision to go into the details of what was or wasnt 
given to him as part of his DSAR request.  This is a sperate issue to whether 
Lending Stream did anything wrong when it provided him with the loans. If Mr R is unhappy and feels that some information has not been provided to him by 
Lending Stream than he is free to take it up with it first and give Lending Stream an 
opportunity to investigate what has happened. I also understand that Mr R has already 
approached the Information Commissioners Office about this issue. So, I say no more about 
the information provided to him, because I dont need to in order to reach a fair outcome on 
a complaint about irresponsible lending. 
Loans 1  3
These were the first loans approved for Mr R, and these all overlapped  meaning that 
Mr R was at times required to make three separate repayments to Lending Stream. 
For all these loans, Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks. To begin with, it 
asked for information about Mr Rs income and expenditure. The summary spreadsheet 
provided by Lending Stream as well as the application data shows that for each of these 
loans, Mr R told Lending Stream he received a monthly income of £1,544. 
Mr R declared monthly outgoings of £500 for loan 1, £700 for loan 2 and £800 for loan 3 
respectively. This left monthly disposable income of between £744 and £1,044 per month. 
This was more than sufficient for Lending Stream to believe that Mr R could afford the 
monthly repayments he was committed to making. 
Mr R says these expenses figures have been added by Lending Stream at a later date. But I 
have no evidence to support this. Indeed, the format in which the information has been 
provided to us by Lending Stream  Mr Rs Application Data - is what is normally provided 
to show information that was gathered at the time of the loan application. 
I therefore, have to accept, in the absences of anything else the information Lending Stream 
says was given to us as part of each loan application is indeed correct and wasnt added to 
later. 
However, before these loans were approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search 
and it has provided a summary spreadsheet of the results. 
As Ive said above, the format that the credit check summary has been provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman is how Lending Stream normally presents the data to us. It is worth 
saying here that although Lending Stream carried out a credit search with a particular credit 
reference agency, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Lending Stream received may 
not entirely reflect the information Mr R may be able to view in his own credit report. There 
could be several reasons for this, such as Lending Stream only asking for certain pieces of 
information or other credit companies not updating the credit file with up-to-date information.  
But what Lending Stream couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to 
the information it received. And subject to the information being received, Lending Stream 
was entitled to rely on the results it was given. 
Ive considered the summary of the results that it has provided. Having reviewed them, there 
isnt anything in the results that I can see that wouldve indicated that Mr R was having 
financial difficulties. For example, for each loan Lending Stream knew that Mr R had zero 
defaults or delinquent accounts, three active credit accounts with a balance of no more than 
£600. I dont think these results wouldve led Lending Stream to either have declined Mr Rs 
application or have prompted it to have carried out more in-depth checks. 
As Ive said above, there was no requirement for Lending Stream to carry out a credit 
search, so even if Lending Stream hadnt done a credit search. That alone wouldnt be 
enough to uphold the complaint because I wouldve still likely concluded the checks it carried 
out where proportionate. 
In addition, Mr R hasnt been able to supply any documentation about what may have been 
recorded on his credit file at the time the credit checks were carried out. So, while I 
acknowledge Mr R is unhappy with the format and manner of the credit check summary 
provided, I dont have any other evidence to suggest that the information Lending Stream 
has provided is in anyway inaccurate. 
And, as the adjudicator has said, we are an impartial dispute resolution service, and we are 
entitled to take the evidence provided by both parties at face value. In this case, Lending 
Stream says a credit search was carried out and its provided  in the form of a spreadsheet 
the results. Whereas, Mr R says the results cant be accurate but hasnt supplied anything to 
demonstrate that. Therefore, given the evidence provided I can only reasonably conclude a 
credit search was carried out and the results provided by Lending Stream are accurate. 
I also dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to have reviewed 
Mr Rs bank statements. After all, the loans were for modest sums, and it was the start of the 
lending chain. In my view, it wouldve been disproportionate for Lending Stream to have 
done that. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have relied on the information Mr R provided along with the credit check 
summary to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. 
There also wasnt anything else in the information to suggest that Mr R was having financial 
difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. Im therefore not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  3. 
Loan 4
For loans 1  3 Mr R spent around three months indebted to Lending Stream, before 
successfully repaying all his loans in November 2011. 
Loan 4 was then approved just over 4 months later. In my view, this break in lending was 
sufficient for Lending Stream to have in effect treated Mr R as a new customer. I say this 
because Mr R had shown that he didnt have need for such credit for longer than he was 
previously indebted for. In addition, when he returned, he asked for no more capital than 
loan 1. 
So, while this was in total his fourth loan in the overall lending relationship this could be 
treated as a first loan in a new chain. This does impact the level and type of check Id 
consider to be proportionate at this moment in time. 
Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done so for loans 
1 - 3. Mr R declared his income had reduced slightly to £1,400 per month.  He declared 
outgoings of £800 leaving disposable income of £600. This was enough disposable income 
to afford the largest repayment he was due to make of £157.50. Again, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Lending Stream to believe the loan was affordable. A credit check was also carried out and again, the results have been provided. The summary 
shows that Mr Rs situation appeared to be similar to that at loans 1  3. There were no 
defaulted or delinquent accounts and at this point Mr R had 2 active credit accounts and he 
owed other lenders around £500. I dont think the credit check results wouldve led 
Lending Stream to either decline the application or to have prompted it to have made better 
checks into Mr Rs financial circumstances. 
I also dont think, at this point, Lending Stream needed to verify the information provided to it 
by Mr R. This means, like loans 1  3, it wouldve been disproportionate to have requested 
or viewed Mr Rs bank statements. Lending Stream could reasonably rely on the information 
provided to it from Mr R which showed this loan was affordable. 
Im therefore concluding Lending Stream made a reasonable decision to provide this loan 
and I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about it. 
Loan 5 
Lending Stream has already conceded this loan ought to not have been advanced and it has 
made an offer of compensation to put things right. As this is the case, then there is no need 
for me to consider the loan. I would say, Lending Streams offer to settle this complaint is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I say no more about it. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 1  
4. 
Lending Stream has already made an offer to settle the complaint about loan 5, as outlined 
in the final response letter and I think this offer is fair in all of the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
So, Gain Credit LLC should pay this award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman