DRN-4321933
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed him after he was the victim of an 
investment scam.
What happened
The parties here are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont recount these in 
detail here. 
But in brief, in 2022 Mr W was tricked into making a Faster Payments transfer of £4,950 from 
his account with Monzo. He did so in the belief he was sending the money to an investment 
scheme, but it later transpired he was dealing with a fraudster.
Mr W had been befriended by someone hed been introduced to. He met that individual on 
multiple occasions. Ill refer to this person as S. 
S claimed to run a successful kitchen and bathroom business. Mr W says hed met others 
whod either had work completed or had invested in Ss business. He says all seemed good, 
and those whod invested had been receiving returns on their money.
In October 2022, S said Mr W could also invest, but hed need to send the money within 24 
hours to secure the next round of investment. Mr W subsequently sent the disputed 
payment.
Mr W says that not long afterwards, Ss business began to unravel, with Ss business partner 
apparently being arrested. Other investors found news stories which revealed S had 
previously been imprisoned for similar ventures which had been scams. Mr W reported the 
matter to Monzo.
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection to scam victims in many 
circumstances - the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo isnt a signatory of 
the CRM Code but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. 
Monzo assessed Mr Ws scam claim under the terms of the CRM Code. It didnt think Mr W 
had taken sufficient steps to check the legitimacy of the investment scheme being offered 
by S. He hadnt held a reasonable basis for believing he was sending the payment to a 
legitimate business or genuine investment scheme. Monzo didnt think it had been at fault 
and said it had taken the steps required of it under the code. So Monzo said it would not 
reimburse Mr W.
Mr W didnt accept this, and he referred his complaint to this service for an impartial 
assessment.
One of our Investigators looked into his complaint. She agreed with Monzo that Mr W hadnt 
held a reasonable basis for believing in the legitimacy of the scheme. But she didnt think 
Monzo had fulfilled the requirements placed on it by the CRM Code. The Investigator 
thought Monzo was required to have provided an effective scam warning, but the one it 
provided hadnt met the minimum standards set by the code. She noted also that it had 
taken Monzo three days to attempt recovery of Mr Ws money. She thought it should have 
done so immediately. However, in practice this delay hadnt made a difference, as no money 
could have been recovered by the time Mr W alerted Monzo to the scam.
In the circumstances, the Investigator said the fair outcome under the CRM Code would 
have been for Monzo to refund Mr W 50% of his loss. She said it should add 8% simple 
interest to reflect the time Mr W has now been without these funds. 
Mr W accepted the Investigators findings but Monzo didnt agree, so Mr Ws complaint has 
now been referred to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as that of our Investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
To begin with, Monzo has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it. As a starting point, a customer will therefore assumed liable for a payment 
they have instructed to be made. There is no dispute that Mr W authorised this payment, 
albeit having been deceived into believing he was sending it to a genuine business for an 
investment opportunity. On the face of it, he is therefore liable for the resultant losses.
However, as Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the 
victims of APP scams such as this was. Monzo has accepted that the payment Mr W made 
falls within the scope of the CRM Code. 
While the CRM Code offers considerable additional protection to the victims of an APP 
scam, it includes provisions allowing a firm to share liability for the loss in some situations.
Relevant here, this includes an exception to full reimbursement where the customer made a 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing they were paying for genuine goods or 
services; dealing with a legitimate person or business; or paying the person they believed 
they were paying.
Monzo says this exception applies here. It says Mr W made this payment without holding a 
reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate business or that he was 
paying for a genuine investment. Ive considered whether it would be fair for Monzo to rely 
on this here.
Ive taken into account what Mr W explains about the way the scam happened. It unfolded 
over a period of time and that the scammer was able to build trust with him. Amongst other 
things, Mr W was reassured that investment returns were being received by people he spoke 
to. I understand how persuasive this could have been. But I think Mr W ought reasonably to 
have taken some independent steps to check what he was being told before sending such a 
large sum to S. Hes explained he went ahead without having received any paperwork or 
contracts. Mr W accepts he didnt carry out any checks. While Mr W was satisfied others 
were receiving returns, this didnt really explain how such good returns could be achieved, 
especially when the terms of the investment were to receive returns every five weeks and be 
able to withdraw the capital investment at any point.
Overall, while Ive carefully considered everything Mr W has said about why he thought what 
he did and why he believed the investment was genuine, on balance it is my finding that 
Mr W made this payment without having a reasonable basis for believing what he did. 
So, I find Monzo is entitled to rely on that exception to full reimbursement under the terms of 
the CRM Code.
The CRM Code sets out standards that firms are required to meet. Where these are not met, 
the firm may still be liable to reimburse a victim in part, even where it has been able to 
establish that an exception to full reimbursement may be fairly applied (as I am satisfied 
Monzo can establish here).   
Relevant here, those requirements include the provision of what the Code defines as an 
Effective Warning when a firm identifies an APP scam risk in relation to a payment. 
When Mr W was making this payment, Monzo says it gave him an Effective Warning, in line 
with the provisions of the CRM Code. I have considered the evidence provided by Monzo to 
determine whether I am persuaded it has established that it met its standards under the 
terms of the CRM Code in this respect.
Metro has provided a copy of the warning messages it says Mr W received. These were 
given when he entered the new payee details and when he made the payment.
I appreciate that, in providing Mr W with both of these messages, Monzo took steps to 
provide him with an effective scam warning during this payment journey. However, despite 
this, Im not persuaded Monzo has demonstrated that the warnings met the minimum 
requirements of an Effective Warning under the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an Effective 
Warning. I consider it reasonable to expect that any Effective Warning should have had a 
realistic prospect of preventing a scam of the general type the warning was intended for. 
Here, Mr W was making a payment to what he believed was an investment. That is a 
common scam type and one for which Id expect Monzo to be able to tailor a warning.
But the warnings Monzo gave Mr W werent particularly relevant to an investment scam risk, 
except in mentioning an offer being too good to be true. Rather I consider both messages 
were generic in nature. They covered a range of scenarios, most of which were irrelevant to 
an investment scam. I think many customers might reasonably have concluded the warning 
simply wasnt relevant to them. I dont think the warning was sufficiently impactful or specific 
as required by the CRM Code.
In short, while it appears Monzo had identified a scam risk here, Im not persuaded it 
provided a warning suitably tailored to the general type of scam risk. Im not satisfied that the 
provision of the warning messages it gave was sufficient to show Monzo complied with the 
requirements of the CRM Code in relation to this payment.
A further requirement of the CRM Code is that firms should notify the receiving firm in 
accordance with the Best Practice Standards (or the equivalent timescales, where a firm is not a signatory to those standards). The Best Practice Standards require no delay in 
notification, it should be immediate. With this in mind, I dont accept Monzos argument that a 
timescale of three days was in line with what the CRM Code requires. I find it didnt meet the 
standard here. However, I am satisfied that this failure did not have any material effect on 
the recovery of Mr Ws funds, as nothing remained to be recovered by the time hed notified 
Monzo.
In summary, I find that Monzo failed to meet its requirements under the CRM Code. In these 
circumstances I find it fair and reasonable that Monzo should now share liability for the 
resultant loss with Mr W as is required under the terms of the CRM Code. That means it 
should have reimbursed him 50% the relevant payment. It is not clear how Mr W would have 
used the funds had these been returned to him by Monzo when it first assessed his claim. 
So I consider it fair that Monzo should add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple 
per year, to reflect the time Mr W was deprived of the use of this money.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd in part. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr W:
50% of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £2,475 less any sums 
already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Ws claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman