DRN-3569851
The complaint
Miss P complains that Fund Ourselves Limited was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to 
her.
What happened
Miss P had two loans from Fund Ourselves between July and September 2021 as shown 
below:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 31 Jul 2021 £400 4m £197.60 30 Nov 2021 8 Sep 2021
219 Sep 2021 £300 4m £149.40 21 Jan 2022 Repayment plan
Miss P says Fund Ourselves did not carry out the correct checks when it lent to her and 
this has led to financial hardship and anxiety.
Fund Ourselves says it asked Miss P for details about her income and expenditure and that 
it also checked her credit file. It says it verified her income and it was satisfied the loans 
were affordable based upon the information it received. However, Fund Ourselves offered 
to set up an affordable repayment plan for loan 2 if Miss P continued to be in financial 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Fund Ourselves had carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing in the 
information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayments were 
unsustainable.
Miss P responded to say, in summary, that her credit file would have shown she was 
financially dependent on loans and that, although she has since set up a repayment plan 
for loan 2, the interest was not frozen.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss P and to Fund Ourselves on 31 May 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
For loan 1, I was satisfied that the checks carried out by Fund Ourselves were 
proportionate to the circumstances of the lending;
However, I found the results of these checks should have indicated to Fund 
Ourselves that further lending was unaffordable because:
oThe credit check showed Miss P had 18 active accounts:
Seven of these had a zero balance;
Seven were defaulted with a combined balance of £3,490;
Two were on repayment arrangements;
One was a short-term loan with a monthly repayment of £137;
One was a mail order account with a balance of £1,118;
oFund Ourselves calculated Miss P had £330 of disposable income each 
month, but this did not include any expenditure on credit;
Miss P could not afford the loan 1 repayment of £197.60 and the short-term loan 
repayment of £137 out of her disposable income, even before her other commitments 
to the repayment arrangements, defaulted accounts and the mail order account were 
considered;
Although the loan 2 repayments were slightly lower, Miss Ps credit check showed a 
very similar picture and I considered the repayments were also likely to be 
unsustainable;
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Ps complaint about both the loans.
Miss P responded to accept my provisional decision.
Fund Ourselves did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidelines were outlined in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
them here.
Because Miss P accepted my provisional decision and neither she, nor Fund Ourselves, 
provided any further additional information, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I 
reached.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fund Ourselves Limited should:
A. Refund all the interest and charges Miss P paid on loan 1;
B. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;C. Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all 
the payments Miss P made towards this loan as payments towards the 
capital;
D. If reworking Miss Ps loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Miss P effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Fund 
Ourselves should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date of settlement* along with the refund calculated (A+B) for 
loan 1;
E. If reworking Miss Ps loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, 
then Fund Ourselves can use the refund for loan 1 (after tax) to offset this. Any 
surplus should be refunded to Miss P. But if there is still an outstanding capital 
balance then Fund Ourselves should take a sympathetic view when agreeing a 
repayment plan;
F. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ps credit file in relation to 
loans 1 and 2  up to the date the complaint is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to take off tax from this interest. Fund 
Ourselves must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman