DRN-3354160
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against her. She says that she was also a victim of a fraud and its unfair for Metro not to 
remove the marker.
Background
In August 2016, Miss As two Metro accounts received a number of payments from a third-
party. Metro subsequently received a notification from the bank which sent the funds that its 
customer had been scammed into making 13 payments from their account totalling close to 
£7,000.00. Metro immediately wrote to Miss A on 1 September 2016 and informed her that it 
would be closing her accounts in 7 days. It then went on to register a fraud prevention 
marker against her in the middle of September 2016. 
After learning that Metro had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, as result of a 
subject access request she made in 2021, Miss A complained to Metro. Metro looked at 
Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A remained dissatisfied, she referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. He didnt think that Metro had done 
enough to show that Miss A was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss A. Metro disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note Metro had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it 
to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Miss As account 
was in receipt of fraudulent funds in the last few days of August 2016. So I can understand 
why Metro had concerns about the usage on Miss As account. However, as Ive already 
explained, this in itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. 
Metro also has to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss A was complicit in fraud. And I 
dont think that it has done that here.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by setting out that Metro doesnt appear to have 
carried out any sort of investigation into Miss As actions, once it received the notification 
from the third-party bank. It simply sent Miss A a letter saying that it would be closing her 
account in 7 days. So Metro didnt give Miss A any opportunity to explain her side of the 
story. And I have to question how it could possibly have assessed her knowledge and 
intention before it recorded the fraud marker against her - arguably this in itself is unfair.
Miss A has, since learning about the marker, explained that she was targeted by someone 
much older than her who took advantage at a time when she was young and while her family 
was experiencing financial difficulty. Shes explained that she was introduced to an older 
man by a friend and was encouraged to provide her debit card and account details to him as 
he said he could make money for her and help her financial situation. Our adjudicator found 
Miss As version of events plausible and he thought that Miss A was unwittingly involved in 
fraud, rather than it being the case that she was complicit in it. 
Metro says this isnt the case because Miss A admits to providing her card to the older man 
in order for him to make money for her. And its view there can be no reasonable explanation 
as to how this would happen, unless her account were to be used for illegal activities. Ive 
thought about what Metro has said but I dont agree with its assertions, as I dont think it 
automatically follows that Miss A ought to have realised that her account would be used for 
illegal activities just because someone told her they could make her some money. In my 
view, Metro appears to be substituting its judgement and expertise in these matters, for that 
of Miss As without accounting for her age and lack of knowledge about financial matters.
More importantly it is Metros responsibility to demonstrate that Miss A was knowingly part of 
the fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Metro needs to have relevant and 
rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In other words, a 
reasonable suspicion that Miss A knew fraud would take place when she handed over her 
card and account details. Simply saying Miss A ought to have known illegal activity would 
take place (even taking into account what shes said) just isnt enough to meet what is a high 
bar. This is especially the case seeing as Miss As version of events here isnt implausible.   
Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Miss A made a financial gain either as 
the fraudulent funds in question were transferred elsewhere. At best there may have been 
some retail transactions made. But even then these were for less than the amount of the funds that were already in the account prior to the fraud taking place.  So Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Miss A benefitted from the fraudulent funds and would question why 
shed knowingly participate in a fraud where she didnt benefit.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Mero had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss A. As this is the case, I think that it 
was unfair for Metro Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it 
did. So Im upholding Miss As complaint and Metro needs to remove the fraud marker it has 
recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss As complaint. Metro Bank PLC should 
remove the fraud marker it has recorded against Miss A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman