DRN-4351950
The complaint
Ms G and Mr W complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and the 
decision to decline the claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
Ms G has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, any actions taken, by either Ms G or 
Mr W as Ms G throughout the decision.
What happened
In late March 2023, Ms G and Mr W took a trip abroad. And they were covered by their 
annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, on the day before they 
were due to fly home, they were made aware by their airline that their original return flight 
had been cancelled due to industrial action. And that their next available return flight was 
scheduled for 4 days later.
Because of this, Ms G and Mr W took the decision to cut their original trip short, and travel to 
another country by train to take a connecting flight back to the UK on the same day as was 
originally planned. And upon their return, they contacted AIL to make a claim for the costs 
they incurred taking this action, which included overnight accommodation and additional 
travel costs.
But AIL declined the claim, explaining it failed to meet the terms and conditions of the policy 
Ms G and Mr W held under both the trip abandonment and travel delay sections. So, they 
didnt offer to cover any of the costs Ms G and Mr W incurred. Ms G was unhappy about this, 
so she raised a complaint.
Ms G didnt think AILs decision to decline the claim was a fair one. They thought they should 
be reimbursed for the costs they incurred arranging alternative travel home, considering their 
original flight had been cancelled and so wasnt set to depart until four days after its original 
departure time. So, this was what Ms G wanted them to do.
AIL didnt agree. They maintained their position that Ms Gs claim fell outside of the terms 
and conditions of the policy she held. And so, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Ms G remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, AIL offered to pay Ms G and Mr W a total payment 
of £200, as a gesture of goodwill and without admittance of fault, to bring the complaint to a 
close. This offer was put to Ms G and Mr W, but it was ultimately declined. So, our 
investigator continued to fully investigate the complaint.
And having done so, they didnt uphold it. Our investigator thought AIL had acted fairly, and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when declining the claim. They explained 
this was because Ms G and Mr W didnt eventually go on the trip they originally planned to, 
as they took alternative transport to another country before flying home. And they explained 
trip abandonment only covered outward departure from the UK, and not returning. So, they 
didnt think AIL needed to do anything more. Our investigator explained it would be up to Ms 
G and Mr W to contact AIL to accept the £200 goodwill gesture put forward by AIL, if it 
remained available to them.
Ms G didnt agree. She felt the claim should be accepted under the cancellation and cutting 
short the trip section of the policy. And she maintained her belief the claim should also have 
been accepted under the travel delay section. So, she reiterated her request for the claim to 
be accepted, and the costs she incurred refunded to her. As Ms G didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms G and Mr W. I recognise 
the inconvenience they were caused, and frustration they no doubt wouldve felt, when they 
discovered their original flight home had been cancelled due to industrial action, something 
which is out of their control. And I can appreciate why Ms G and Mr W would deem a delay 
of four days to be so inconvenient that they needed to consider alternative routes home.
And as Ms G and Mr W wouldnt have incurred the costs getting home by alternative means 
had their original flight not been delayed, I can understand why Ms G and Mr W feel their 
claim should be covered under the travel insurance policy they held. So, when AIL declined 
their claim, I can understand why they felt unfairly treated.
But for me to say AIL should do something more, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and 
conditions of the policy Ms G and Mr W held when declining the claim. Or, if I think they did 
act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive carefully considered the entirety of the policy terms and conditions. And in this situation, 
I think the appropriate section for the claim falls under Section 5: Delayed or missed 
departure.
Under the Delayed international departure (outbound or return journey) heading it explains 
that AIL will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for every complete 
12 hours that your trip is delayed if your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more 
than 12 hours beyond the departure time shown on your travel itinerary because of strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather conditions or a mechanical breakdown. We will only pay 
you if you have travelled to the airport and checked in and as long as you eventually go on 
the trip.
In this situation, Ms G and Mr Ws trip was delayed by more than 12 hours, as their return 
flight didnt leave until 4 days after it was intended. And this was due to industrial action. So, 
I can understand why Ms G thinks she has a valid claim that should be accepted.
But crucially, the term quoted above also explained that AIL will only accept a claim if a 
customer travelled to the airport, checked in and goes on the trip they intended. And I dont 
think its in dispute that Ms G and Mr W didnt do this.Instead, they travelled to another country, by train, a day early. So, they didnt check in at the 
airport, ahead of their departure. Nor did they go on the trip, a flight from their original 
location to the UK. And, I can see due to Ms Gs decision to arrange alternative transport, 
they left their destination country a day before the flight was due. And they flew back to the 
UK within 12 hours of their original departure time. So, for these reasons, I dont think I can 
say AIL have acted unfairly when declining the claim under this heading, as I dont think Ms 
G and Mr Ws circumstances met the terms and conditions of the policy.
And under the heading Abandoned international departure (outbound journey only) its 
made reasonably clear that any claim for an abandoned departure would only be for travel 
from the UK on an outbound basis. In this situation, the delayed/cancelled trip was returning 
to the UK and so, I dont think AIL have acted unfairly when declining the claim under this 
part of the policy terms and conditions.
But I do note Ms G also referred to another section of the policy, titled Section 2: Cancelling 
or cutting short your trip and so, for completeness, Ive thought about whether Ms Gs claim 
shouldve been accepted under this term as Id expect AIL to consider the claim against all 
plausible terms when they receive it.
But this explains that a claim would only be accepted under this section of the policy for 
specific reasons. And having considered all the reasons listed, Im satisfied that industrial 
action doesnt fall within these. So, I dont think AIL have acted unfairly when not accepting 
the claim under this aspect of the policy either.
Ive then thought about whether AIL have acted unfairly in any other way. And when thinking 
about this, Ive thought about whether AIL treated Ms G or Mr W differently in any way to 
how Id expect them to treat another customer in a similar situation. And in this situation, Ive 
seen no evidence that suggests AIL acted differently in any way that meant the claim 
decision Ms G and Mr W received was unfair, or unjust. And so, because of all the above, I 
dont think AIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms G and Mr W were hoping for. And I appreciate it will 
likely leave them out of pocket due to the costs they incurred ensuring they returned home 
on the day they originally intended. But, while I dont dispute the upset and frustration this 
will have caused, I dont think the delay itself was the fault of AIL. And Im satisfied they 
declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy, as Id expect them to do. 
I note since our service received Ms G and Mr Ws complaint, AIL offered to pay Ms G and 
Mr W a total payment of £200 as a good will gesture. It is up to Ms G and Mr W to contact 
AIL to discuss the offer, should they wish to accept it and should it remain open for 
acceptance.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms G and Mr Ws complaint about Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman