DRN-3061801
The complaint
Mr M complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
MoneyBoat provided Mr M with a loan as follows:
Loan start 
dateLoan status instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
31/05/19 Outstanding 6 £500 £152.71
When Mr M complained to MoneyBoat it said it had completed correct and proportionate 
affordability checks which showed that the loan was affordable for him and didnt uphold his 
complaint. So Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Mr M mainly disputed MoneyBoats affordability checks and told us he had multiple payday 
loans at the time. He hasnt been able to make the monthly repayments due on this loan and 
it remains unpaid.  
Our adjudicator assessed Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the case to be sent to an 
ombudsman to review. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr M about his income and regular monthly expenditure, including his 
housing costs and what he was spending each month on food, transport and other regular 
outgoings as well as the amount he was paying to service existing credit debt.
MoneyBoat worked out that Mr M should still have disposable income of approximately 
£1090 after taking out this loan. So, it felt the loan was affordable for him.
But, I dont think MoneyBoat made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr M based on 
the information it had gathered.
I say this because looking at its credit checks that MoneyBoat obtained when Mr M applied 
for this loan, it could see that Mr M didnt in reality have the amount of disposable income its 
checks suggested he did as his monthly credit repayments were significantly more than the 
£300 it allowed for. By my reckoning, MoneyBoats credit checks showed that Mr M would 
owe at least £943 per month towards other unsecured and payday loans when he took out 
this loan with MoneyBoat. In saying this, I have assumed Mr M would make the final monthly 
repayment of £40 he was shortly due to make on a £250 loan and not included in this in my 
calculation. This meant that he would need to pay around £1095 once the monthly 
repayments on his MoneyBoat loan were factored into his monthly spending. This didnt 
include making any payments towards his credit cards or other creditors and the amount of 
his credit spending already exceeded the amount of disposable income MoneyBoat had 
worked out that Mr M had available to spend.
 
MoneyBoat saw that Mr M had effectively used 100% of his available credit  he had 2 
credit cards close to their limit and 2 credit cards over the account limit. 
And it could also have seen that he had taken out other expensive loans worth around 
£9,714 (a mix of unsecured loans and what look like payday loans) in the five months 
or so running up to him applying for this loan. Mr M had taken out 5 of those within the 
previous 3 months  and 3 of those within the last month or so, including a substantial 
unsecured loan of around £4,952. I think it should have been clear to MoneyBoat from the information it had gathered that 
Mr M wasnt managing to repay his debt and, increasingly, he appeared to be relying 
on new credit more recently obtained in order to manage his finances. 
I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised that Mr Ms loan application reflected his 
reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mr M could repay 
further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. 
I dont think, based on what MoneyBoat had in front of it, I can fairly say that 
MoneyBoat saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mr M was going to be able to 
make the loan repayments in a sustainable way.
It wasnt clear how Mr M planned to spend the loan  the application information recorded 
shows the loan purpose as Other. So I think MoneyBoat shouldve realised this loan was 
likely going to add to Mr Ms already unsustainable debt burden  and even if Mr M had put 
the money towards paying other debt, the loan amount was insufficient for Mr M to be able to 
make any meaningful impact on his overall outstanding credit debt. 
I think MoneyBoat saw enough to have realised that it would be unlikely Mr M would be able 
to make the loan repayment in a sustainable way  in other words, without borrowing 
elsewhere in order to be able to meet his credit commitments. So I dont think MoneyBoat 
shouldve provided this loan. 
I think what I've said is borne out by the payment problems Mr M has run into on this loan. 
Ive also had the benefit of seeing a credit report supplied by Mr M which shows he took out 
another high cost loan within a week or so of MoneyBoat providing this loan to him (which 
reinforces my view that he needed to borrow to repay debt  which I think was foreseeable 
from the information MoneyBoat had gathered). 
And he has incurred defaults on credit card accounts and had to enter arrangements to pay 
other loans. 
So it seems clear to me that MoneyBoat provided a loan that has added to Mr Ms overall 
financial difficulty. And its fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint and require 
MoneyBoat to provide redress.  
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below. 
But as Mr M has been further indebted by paying extra for a loan that he shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what MoneyBoat did 
wrong. So, I think MoneyBoat needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M agrees with my provisional decision.
Ive heard nothing further from MoneyBoat and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing).
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But, in line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
he borrowed. 
If MoneyBoat has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then MoneyBoat should attempt to 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr M, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding this loan 
when it is paid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman