DRN-3285518
The complaint
This complaint arises from the repossession and sale of Mr Ds property which had been 
mortgaged to Santander UK Plc. This decision follows on from a jurisdiction decision I issued 
on 31 January 2022 when I decided that the only issues I can consider are:
Santanders failure to return a phone call it received on 15 July 2020;
the way Santander dealt with Mr Ds request for a change of address on its system.
I understand Mr D has raised other issues about the level of forbearance Santander 
provided and about what he says are repeated failures to comply with the Mortgages and 
Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). Because Santander hasnt had 
the opportunity to consider those, I wont be looking at them as part of this complaint.
Mr D has been assisted in bringing his complaint by a family member. For the sake of clarity, 
I will refer to Mr D throughout.
What happened
Mr D had bought a property with the assistance of a mortgage from Santander. 
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears and the property was taken into possession by 
Santander in November 2019 and was subsequently sold.
Various complaints were raised by Mr D, and final response letters were issued by 
Santander. Mr D continued to pursue his concerns with Santander and on 15 July 2020 
contacted Santander by telephone. Santander didnt respond and Mr D had to write to 
Santander instead. 
In its final response letter dated 4 September 2020, Santander acknowledged that it hadnt 
returned the call, and apologised.
Mr D was also unhappy that Santander hadnt changed the address on his account and had 
sent correspondence to the property address after Santander had taken it into possession. 
Santander said in the final response letter that it wasnt until 3 March 2020 that the bank had 
been able to carry out additional security checks that were necessary to add Mr Ds father as 
the main point of contact and to change the address.
The complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator 
looked at what had happened. She noted Mr D had written to Santander asking him to 
accept his letter as authority for his father to discuss the account on his behalf. However, 
Santander required Mr D and his father to complete a form. This was sent to the mortgaged 
property, which Mr D no longer lived at, as Santander had taken possession of it.
The investigator noted Santander had in the past sent correspondence to Mr D via secure 
message, and that he had received those messages. So she thought Santander ought to 
have realised Mr D wouldnt have received a letter sent to the property address once it had 
been taken into possession. She asked Santander to pay £75 compensation, which the bank 
agreed to do.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. Hes reiterated the points about Santander 
writing to the address hed already had vacated and that Santander had other ways of 
contacting him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im satisfied Santander should have responded to Mr Ds phone call made on 15 July 
2020 and that he shouldnt have had to chase up a response. Santander has apologised for 
this and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
With regard to the change of address, I can see from the letter Mr D wrote to the bank that 
he gave his contact details as his fathers address. Santanders policy is for a form to be 
completed for a change of address and third party authority to be put in place. Santander 
has justified sending the form to the property address after it had taken it into possession by 
saying that some borrowers arrange to have their mail forwarded. But Santander had 
alternative ways of contacting Mr D  and indeed had contacted him successfully via its 
secure portal on 25 November 2019. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander ought to have thought about whether an 
alternative method of contact should be used, given that the property had been taken into 
possession.
It wasnt until 3 March 2020 that the address on the account was changed, after Santanders 
process had been followed. But I think this could have been done much sooner if Santander 
had sent Mr D a secure message in November 2019 explaining that a form would need to be 
completed.
Putting things right
As some inconvenience was caused to Mr D, I think a payment of compensation should be 
made. Im satisfied that the £75 proposed by the investigator is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the banks mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct Santander 
UK Plc to pay Mr D £75 compensation. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman