DRN-3244262
The complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1997 
alongside a mortgage and 1999 alongside a further advance. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Both PPI policies covered Mr H only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the 
time.
Ive decided neither of the policies were mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI policies were optional and gain their 
consent before adding the PPI to their mortgage and further advance. Mr and Mrs H have 
told us they were made to feel that the PPI was a requirement of the lending. There isnt 
much paperwork available from the sale of the policies, but this isnt unusual considering the 
time that has passed, and that businesses arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. From the information that is available I dont have enough to say BoS didnt 
present the policies as optional, or that Mr H didnt choose to have them.
I think BoS recommended the PPI policies to Mr H at both sales, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him. Mr H has told us he was entitled to a comprehensive benefits package 
through his employer when he took the PPI policies. He also had alternative cover and some 
savings. But the PPI policies would have paid out in addition to all of Mr Hs other cover and 
benefits. It would also have protected his savings so they could be used towards any other 
expenses Mr and Mrs H may have had.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time or each sale, he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and Mr and Mrs H seem to have 
had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI policies wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think Mr H chose to take them out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI policies would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs H said PPI was generally mis-sold and that with the limited information available 
their complaint should be upheld. But each case is considered on its own merits, and it was 
often the case that PPI offered good protection to policy holders. For the reasons Ive 
explained above these additional points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman