DRN-4067270
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc trading 
as Ulster Bank when dealing with some old bankers drafts. 
Mr M is being represented in this complaint by a family member. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mr M
What happened
Mr M found two old bankers drafts dating back to 1999 and presented them to Ulster Bank 
asking for the funds to be given back to him which they agreed to do.
After receiving the funds Mr M made two further queries:
- the possible existence of other lost drafts
- the payment of interest on the two drafts for the time they were outstanding
Ulster Bank said that in order to check for any other outstanding old drafts they would need 
information such as the draft serial number, amounts and dates of issue. Without this it was 
impossible for them to advise further. Seemingly the matter of interest on the old drafts 
wasnt addressed. 
Mr M remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They explained that if Mr M was able to provide 
evidence of any other old drafts then Ulster Bank would investigate. They also explained 
how bankers drafts work and that no interest was due.
Mr M disagreed provided further reasoning as to why he thought Ulster Bank should search 
their records for other possibe outstanding old bankers drafts. He also gave more detail 
about why he thinks interest should be paid for the time the two old drafts were outstanding.
Our Investigator considered what Mr M said but still thought that Ulster Bank didnt need to 
take any further action. Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr M that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is 
intended.
There are two parts of this complaint as Ive set out above.
Firstly Mr M asks that Ulster Bank pay interest from the time the drafts were drawn in 1999 
until the money was paid to him. Having looked at what happened I wont be asking for any 
interest to be paid. 
When a draft is issued it is pre-paid by the customer and written against an internal account 
of the bank. Its made out to the payee requested and given to the customer to pass on. No 
interest is accrued while the draft is outstanding as the only agreement is that the bank pay 
the payee when it is presented. Its the payees responsibility to present the draft for 
payment. 
Because of the way a bankers draft works Im satisfied no interest payment is due to Mr M 
and that he has been treated fairly and reasonably.
Secondly Mr M asks that Ulster Bank search its records for any other possible outstanding 
old bankers drafts that he might have drawn. 
Ulster Bank said they will search their records if Mr M supplies information such as the draft 
serial numbers, draft amounts and dates of issue. I think this is a reasonable request. I dont 
think it would be reasonable, and perhaps not even possible, for the records to be searched 
in their entirety for drafts issued on unknown dates for unknown amounts. I think Ulster Bank 
has acted fairly and reasonably by asking for this information before conducting any 
searches.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Ulster Bank treated Mr M 
fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman