DRN-2950106
The complaint
Mr D complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (AIL) misdiagnosed the issue with his 
boiler, under his Landlords home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr D has home emergency cover for a property that he rents out. In October 2020, Mr D 
contacted AIL as the boiler at the property was losing pressure and not producing heat or hot 
water. AIL sent a few engineers in its attempt to rectify the issue with the system before 
eventually diagnosing that sludge was present in the system.  
AIL advised Mr B to get a power flush following which it would return to complete the repairs 
to the system. Mr B contacted an independent engineer who found that there was no sludge 
in the system but cleaned it anyway. Following the clean, Mr D said the problem persisted, 
so the engineer checked the expansion vessel (EV) re-pressurised this and the boiler 
worked perfectly well since then.
Mr D complained to AIL that its engineers had misdiagnosed the issue with the system, and 
he sought a reimbursement of £220 the cost of the engineer who fixed the boiler and 
compensation for his tenants who were inconvenienced by the event. In its final response, 
AIL offered Mr D £25 as its engineer shouldve told him of the presence of sludge much 
earlier. 
Mr D was unhappy by this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that AIL had fulfilled its 
obligations under the policy by having replaced the expansion vessel. So, if the cleaning of 
the boiler fixed the issue, this wasnt covered by the policy. Also, she couldnt award 
compensation for Mr Ds tenants as they werent customers of AIL. So, there was nothing 
she could ask AIL to reasonably do. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view.  He said that AILs engineers didnt diagnose the 
issue as after the system was cleaned, the issue persisted. Also, there was no sludge in the 
system and when the expansion vessel was inspected and re-pressurized, the boiler 
worked. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be holding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr D, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are whether AIL diagnosed the fault with the boiler 
correctly and whether Mr Ds tenants should be compensated for the inconvenience this 
caused. 
Mr D had a commercial landlords policy that provided home emergency cover for the 
property he rented out. Mr D said that his tenants suffered due to the loss of heating and hot 
water, especially as they had a young family. Because of the nature of the policy, we dont 
ask an insurer to pay compensation to a consumer (in this complaint that would be Mr D) as 
he wasnt the one who suffered, and his tenants arent the insurers responsibility. 
Accordingly, I wont be able to direct AIL to compensate Mr Ds tenants. 
I have considered the engineer reports that I have been provided with from each party. AILs 
engineer attended and while fitting an expansion vessel noticed sludge in the system. The 
notes of this visit say that the engineer tried his best to remove the sludge that was present 
at the time, but couldnt remove all. It further went on to say that any further work on the 
boiler would be subject to a power flush being required. 
Mr D instructed a third-party engineer who advised that there was no sludge present but 
decided to clean the system anyway. His report also says that chemicals were used to clean 
the system. Those chemicals would be used to remove debris and grease. Which AIL said 
didnt amount to a power flush. Nonetheless, Mr Ds engineer found that this clean didnt 
rectify the problem and so he checked the expansion vessel. That was low, so he re-
pressurised it. This seemingly worked as the boiler began working as normal.
I note that the policy exclusions dont cover for the removal of sludge or hardwater scale 
from central heating systems. AILs engineer found evidence of sludge, tried to clean it, while 
fitting the expansion vessel. From this, I think he carried out the repair as required. 
Mr Ds engineer, said that there was no sludge but cleaned the system anyway, then re-
pressurised the vessel and the boiler worked. So, while the engineer didnt think that the 
system needed a clean, he did it anyway, with very little other intervention other than 
resetting the new expansion vessel. 
I have thought about what this means, and I think it means that we cant say for certain (from 
both reports) what rectified the issue. What we can tell is that two things altered. First the 
expansion vessel was changed by AIL and second, Mr Ds engineer carried out a clean. 
Consequently, if it was the expansion vessel, then AIL fixed the fault. If it was the clean, this 
wouldnt have been covered by the terms of the policy. So, it would mean that AIL would 
never have had liability. 
In the circumstances, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr D will be, Im satisfied that 
AIL fulfilled its obligations under the terms of the policy and I cant agree that it made an 
error in dealing with Mr Ds claim.  I also think that the £25 compensation that AIL paid for 
the inconvenience it caused is fair. So, I wont be asking AIL to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the compensation of £25 that Astrenska Insurance 
Limited has already paid, for the inconvenience it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman