DRN-3946211
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt paid claims he made on a group 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B is insured under his employers group private medical insurance policy.
In July 2022, Mr Bs daughter, Miss B, unfortunately suffered an allergic reaction to a meal. 
Her GP referred her to an allergy specialist. AXA agreed to cover a consultation with a 
specialist Ill call Mr F.
Mr F carried out skin prick testing on Miss B. Amongst other things, she was diagnosed with 
an allergy to peanut and cashew nuts. Mr F also concluded that walnuts could be an issue. 
He recommended that Miss B should undergo further testing for walnuts, along with other 
nuts  including a further skin prick test and a food challenge. Additionally, Mr F considered 
that Miss B should undergo peanut desensitisation. Mr B made claims to AXA to cover the 
costs of the further nut testing and the peanut desensitisation. 
AXA turned down Mr Bs claims. It concluded that given the peanut desensitisation was a 
longer-term course of treatment, it was a chronic condition and therefore excluded from 
cover. And it considered the further nut testing to be preventative screening, as Miss B had 
already been found to have a nut allergy. Preventative screening or treatment was also 
specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr B was unhappy with AXAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He also 
provided a letter from Mr F in support of his claim, which stated that Mr F felt the food 
challenge was a diagnostic procedure, rather than a preventative one.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt 
that it had been fair for AXA to conclude that the peanut desensitisation was a chronic 
condition and therefore, that it wasnt covered by the policy terms. And he was also 
persuaded that the further nut testing was a preventative screening, which AXA had decided 
not to cover. So he considered it had been fair for AXA to turn down Mr Bs claims.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his responses. He felt that Miss B had experienced 
symptoms of an allergy previously, given her reaction to the meal. She was tested for a 
range of allergens, but her reaction to walnut wasnt conclusive. This meant Miss B required 
further diagnostic testing to determine whether she did have an allergy to walnut. He 
questioned why AXA had agreed to cover the first consultation, but not the second, when 
both had been prompted by Miss Bs initial allergic reaction. Mr B acknowledged that an 
allergy was a long-term condition. But he felt the policy wording specifically allowed for the 
treatment of chronic conditions for a short period.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down 
his claims and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms and the available evidence, to decide whether I think AXA treated Mr B 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr Bs employer and AXA. The policy explains that it covers eligible treatment. This 
is treatment of an acute condition and treatment which isnt preventative.
An acute condition is defined in the policy as: a disease, illness or injury thats likely to 
respond quickly to treatment thats likely to return the insured to the state of health that they 
were previously in, or leads to their full recovery.
AXA has also set out the definition of treatment in the contract as surgical or medical 
services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, 
illness or injury.
The policy explains that diagnostic tests are defined as: investigations, such as x-rays or 
blood tests, to find or to help find the cause of symptoms. The policy also states that AXA 
doesnt cover preventative treatment, or preventative screening tests. 
Additionally, the policy says that AXA doesnt cover chronic conditions, which AXA has 
defined as follows:
A chronic condition is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics
 it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups or tests
 it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
 it requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
 it continues indefinitely
 it has no known cure
 it comes back or is likely to come back.
AXA has also set out that it wont pay for monitoring of a long term condition; routine follow-
up consultations or treatment that only offers temporary relief of symptoms, rather than 
dealing with the underlying cause.
In my view, there are two key questions for me to decide. Was it fair for AXA to decline to 
pay for the further nut testing? And was it fair for AXA to turn down the claim for peanut 
desensitisation? Ill look at each issue in turn.
Was it fair for AXA to turn down the claim for further nut testing?
Following Miss Bs initial skin prick test, Mr F concluded that she was sensitised to walnuts, 
but that this didnt confirm her allergic status. The results of the skin prick test showed that among other allergen responses, Miss B had suffered a 5mm response to cashew and a 
3mm response to walnut. My own research indicates that those skin responses were 
wheals in response to the allergens which were tested. Mr F said: It is clear that she is 
allergic topeanut and cashew and there is certainly the possibility that walnut is also an 
issue. He recommended that Miss B avoid tree nuts, but that she should undertake a 
supervised introduction to walnut, along with other tree nuts.
AXA assessed the medical evidence and concluded that the food challenge would be 
preventative screening, which, as Ive set out above, is specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. So Ive considered the available medical evidence to decide whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for AXA to draw.
Mr F stated that he felt the food challenge would be a completion of diagnostic testing, given 
Miss Bs known sensitivity to walnut. So he proposed to confirm whether or not she had an 
allergy. Ive thought about this carefully, as the policy does cover diagnostic tests.
On the other hand, AXA says that the food challenge test was purely for an allergen which 
hadnt caused Miss B problems in the past. Its medical adviser says that the initial 
presentation of symptoms had been diagnosed already. And the medical adviser stated that 
Miss Bs skin prick test had demonstrated a sensitisation to walnuts, rather than an allergy. 
Im not a medical expert. This means I need to weigh up the expert medical evidence which 
has been provided to me to decide which I find most persuasive. I havent seen any medical 
evidence which shows that Miss B had suffered a reaction to walnuts prior to the skin prick 
test or any prior symptoms of a walnut allergy. And it seems to me that Miss Bs reaction 
during the skin prick test was caused by the walnut (amongst other nuts) to which she was 
being exposed during the test. So in my view, further testing wasnt needed in order to 
establish (or diagnose) what was causing the reaction  as Mr F was able to determine that 
Miss B had a walnut sensitivity from the skin prick tests. The testing had also concluded that 
Miss B had a nut allergy. It appears to me then that further testing was instead required 
because Mr F wanted to find out whether Miss Bs sensitisation to walnuts was an allergy 
(and accordingly that walnuts should therefore be avoided in the future). 
As such, Im satisfied it was fair for AXA to conclude that the food challenge and further 
testing was preventative screening, rather than a diagnostic test. It follows then that I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to turn down this claim. Id add that I dont think 
that just because AXA agreed to cover the initial skin prick test with Mr F, it was bound to 
pay for further testing. Thats because the purpose of the initial test was to determine which 
allergens caused Miss B a skin reaction. I think then that the initial test could fairly be 
considered a diagnostic test and therefore covered by the policy. This initial test diagnosed a 
nut allergy and Miss Bs sensitisation to walnuts. However, as Ive said, I dont think the food 
challenge could reasonably be treated as a diagnostic test  as a sensitivity to walnuts had 
already been found.
Was it fair for AXA to decline to pay for peanut desensitisation?
I set out above that AXA doesnt cover chronic conditions and its definition of a chronic 
condition. I think AXA has clearly explained the exclusion in the policy terms and in my 
experience, most, if not all, private medical insurers dont cover chronic conditions.
Its clear that AXA concluded that Miss Bs peanut allergy was a chronic condition and that 
the peanut desensitisation treatment was consequently excluded from cover. Its medical 
adviser said that peanut desensitisation requires ongoing follow-up and treatment over a 
long period of time (a year or more) and may only offer temporary relief of symptoms.Mr B appears to accept that Miss Bs underlying peanut allergy cant be cured and as such, 
he acknowledges that her allergy in itself is a chronic condition. However, he says that the 
peanut desensitisation treatment would take place in sessions over a period of 16-32 weeks, 
with long-term maintenance of the treatment simply involved feeding Miss B small amounts 
of peanut at home. Hes referred to the What other treatments are covered for chronic 
conditions section of the policy. This says:
There are particular situations where we can cover treatment for chronic conditions
 The initial investigations to diagnose your condition
 Treatment for a few months so that your specialist can start your treatment.
Mr B considers that this section of the policy provides cover for the peanut desensitisation 
treatment. Ive considered this carefully. I dont think this section applies to treatment for all 
chronic conditions  particular situations implies that this section is limited in nature and that 
those situations are at AXAs discretion. Im mindful that the policy doesnt define what AXA 
means by particular situations, which is unfortunate. 
However, even on a plain and ordinary interpretation of the clause, I dont think I could fairly 
find that Miss Bs treatment ought to be covered under it. I say that because, firstly, the 
peanut desensitisation treatment wasnt to diagnose Miss Bs condition. Shed already been 
diagnosed with a peanut allergy. And the treatment wasnt intended to take place to allow a 
specialist to start treatment. It seems to me that the peanut desensitisation and ongoing 
home follow-up, with further monitoring by Mr F, was the treatment. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr Bs position because I appreciate hes borne the cost of the 
peanut desensitisation personally and I understand this has been a worrying time for Mr B 
and his family. But I simply dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to conclude that 
his claims werent covered. So I find it was fair and reasonable for AXA not to pay Mr Bs 
claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman