DRN-2012307
 
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs M complain about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited has offered them
for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr C and Mrs M made a claim on their home insurance policy after an escape
of water at their home. The flooring in their kitchen was damaged.
Ageas accepted the claim and made a cash settlement offer of around £4500. Thats
because it didnt cover the costs of replacing their breakfast room and conservatory floors
which matched the kitchen floor. Mr C and Mrs M werent happy with the offer though. They 
said this whole area had been designed as an open plan space. But the tiles Mr C and Mrs 
M already had were no longer available. So once the kitchen floor had been replaced, the 
flooring wouldnt match with the other two rooms.
Ageas accepted the flooring was continuous throughout the three rooms. But it said there
were numerous natural breaks in it, like archways, which meant each area should be treated
as separate fixture and fitting. Ageas said each area should be considered as a single item.
It said the policy didnt cover undamaged areas of flooring. So its offer only took into account
the damaged kitchen floor.
Mr C and Mrs M remained unhappy with Ageas offer. They provided two quotes for the work
 one for around £20,000 and one for around £21,000. They werent happy with the
difference between what Ageas had offered and third-party quotes. They asked us to look
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it
was fair for Ageas to treat the floor areas as separate fixtures and fittings. She accepted the
policy didnt cover undamaged items. But as the tiles werent available, she thought it would
be fair for Ageas to compensate Mr C and Mrs M for the loss of match. So she
recommended that Ageas should pay them 50% of the cost of replacing the flooring in the
undamaged areas.
Ageas disagreed. It maintained that its policy wording only covered the costs of replacing
damaged items and excluded undamaged items. It also said that the policy seller offers
different levels of cover. Mr C and Mrs M had chosen not to take up the more expensive
option which wouldve given them the cover they wanted.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I noticed that the policy terms Ageas had sent
us were dated February 2019 and covered the time of the claim. This policy didnt exclude
cover for undamaged matching items. In fact, it stated that if part of a set was damaged and
Ageas couldnt arrange an exact replacement, it would replace the whole set as new. So the
investigator asked Ageas for its comments.
Ageas sent us a copy of the policy terms dated September 2018. This policy did exclude
cover for non-damaged items which are part of a matching set. It said this was the correct
policy wording, as it applied when Mr C and Mrs M took out the policy in January 2019.
Ageas said this was the wording Mr C and Mrs M agreed to. The next set of policy wording
was released after they took out the policy, so Ageas said it didnt apply to the claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I planned to uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint. I said:
Ageas has relied on a policy term that doesnt cover undamaged items which form part of a
matching set. It accepts though that Mr C and Mrs Ms flooring throughout the kitchen,
breakfast room and conservatory is continuous.
Ive carefully considered the photos Mr C and Mrs M have sent us and Ageas surveyors
report. I accept there are some natural breaks in the flooring between rooms, like archways.
But it seems to me that Mr C and Mrs Ms flooring shouldnt be treated as separate areas or
as forming a matching set. In my view, the flooring throughout these areas is one single,
continuous item. The tiles match and fit together through each room. This means I currently
dont think the flooring is part of a matching set. Replacing the tiles in the kitchen only would
likely mean thered be breaks in the flooring that werent there before. So I think Mr C and
Mrs M wouldnt be fairly indemnified if I were to treat the flooring as three parts of a matching
set.
On this basis, I dont think awarding 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged items
would be a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint. I currently think Ageas needs to
deal with the flooring in the kitchen, breakfast room and conservatory as one item. So I
currently plan to tell it to pay the full costs of replacing the flooring in all three rooms.
In any event, even if I had been persuaded the flooring formed a matching set, Id have still
told Ageas to pay this claim in full. The February 2019 policy states:
In the event that parts of your buildings are damaged and cannot be repaired and if the
damaged item is part of a set and we cannot arrange an exact replacement, we will replace
the whole set as new.
In my view, the February 2019 policy wording superseded the September 2018 wording.
These were the terms and conditions that applied at the time of the claim. Generally, we take
the view that insurers must apply the terms and conditions that apply at the time of the claim
rather than when the policy is taken out. So I think its fair to apply the February 2019 terms
and conditions here.
Doing so here means that even if I treated Mr C and Mrs Ms flooring as part of a matching
set, I think the policy terms cover the cost of a full replacement.
Mr C and Mrs M have provided us with quotes for getting the flooring done. I appreciate
these are substantially higher than what Ageas contractor quoted to get the works done. Ive
carefully considered what the terms of the policy say about how Ageas chooses to settle
claims. It gives Ageas the option to repair a building, pay the cost of repair or rebuilding, or
pay a cash settlement for the loss or damage. In this case, Ageas chose to cash settle Mr C
and Mrs Ms claim.
The policy says: We will not pay more than the cost to us (after any discount available to us
from our approved suppliers) of repairing or rebuilding the buildings.
This means Ageas is entitled to limit any cash settlement to what it wouldve cost it to get the
works done using its own approved supplier. Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think
it was fair for Ageas to limit its offer to the quote provided by its surveyor. It would also be
entitled to rely on this term when calculating settlement due for replacing the flooring in the
conservatory and breakfast rooms.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at. 
Mr C and Mrs M were concerned that Ageas might not realistically cost the floor replacement 
and asked if Ageas could provide a detailed breakdown of the settlement it proposed.
Ageas questioned why I was planning to direct it to pay 100% of the flooring costs, when the 
previous recommendation had been to pay 50% of the costs. It also maintained that the 
2018 policy terms and conditions should be applied when considering the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
In some cases, I may think its appropriate for an insurer to pay a 50% contribution towards 
replacing undamaged items which form part of a matching set, as compensation for a loss of 
match. And I appreciate thats what the investigator thought would be the appropriate 
outcome here.
But in this case, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr C and Mrs Ms 
flooring is part of a matching set. The photographs clearly show that the flooring is one 
continuous area  there are no breaks in it and the floor clearly fits together throughout. So I 
think Mr C and Mrs Ms floor is one single item. If only the tiling in the kitchen is replaced, 
breaks will be left in the rest of the flooring which werent there before. So Mr C and Mrs M 
wouldnt be left in the same position they were in before the claim.
Because I think the downstairs flooring in the three rooms is one continuous item, I dont 
think its fair to treat it as part of a matching set. For that reason, I think the fair answer in 
these particular circumstances is for Ageas to pay 100% of the costs of replacing the flooring 
across the three rooms.
As I think Ageas cant fairly apply the matching set exclusion clause, I dont think I now need 
to make a finding on which set of terms and conditions should apply here.
I appreciate Mr C and Mrs M have concerns about how Ageas will calculate settlement. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, I do think Ageas terms and conditions state its entitled to 
limit any cash settlement to what it would cost its own contractors to do the work. Itd be 
helpful if Ageas could provide Mr C and Mrs M with a scope of works to show how its 
calculated any cash settlement for replacing the flooring. But if Mr C and Mrs M feel that 
Ageas hasnt fairly calculated the settlement, they may be able to ask us to look at a new 
complaint about that issue, once Ageas has had a chance to consider it.
Putting things right
Overall, Im persuaded Ageas must pay to replace the cost of the flooring in the breakfast 
room and conservatory, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint.I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay for the cost of replacing the flooring in the
breakfast room and the conservatory, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. It
must also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of the claim until the
date of settlement.
*If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr C and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C
and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman