DRN-1801377
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy at the exchange rate HSBC UK Bank Plc applied when he transferred 
money into his account.
What happened
Mr E has a current account with HSBC. He also has an account abroad. In July and August 
2019 he made two transfers from his account abroad to his HSBC account. The exchange 
rate used was HSBCs rate on the day.
Mr E has since looked at the exchange rate and found that it wasnt as good as the official 
exchange rates on those days. He feels hes lost out around £950 because of HSBCs rate.
HSBC explained that it used its own rate for that day which was advertised when Mr E 
decided to make his transaction. HSBC also explained it applied the rate in line with the 
terms of Mr Es account. And it explained to Mr E that it decides its rate by looking at the 
interbank market rate and choosing a mid-rate then applying its margin.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that HSBC had applied its rate 
in line with its terms, and that the rate was advertised to Mr E. She also explained that Mr E 
couldve contacted HSBC prior to making the transaction if he wanted more information 
about how the rate was calculated. Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision as he felt 
HSBC should be more transparent about its margin and he has lost out as a result of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E made the international transfer into his HSBC account. So, the terms of his HSBC 
account apply here. These say:
If you pay cash in a foreign currency well convert it into pounds sterling first using the 
HSBC Exchange Rate at the time we receive the cash.
These terms dont say it will use the best rate found online, it says it will use the HSBC rate 
on the day. HSBC has explained that this means using the mid-range interbank market rate 
plus its margin. I understand why Mr E would like to know the margin HSBC uses 
beforehand, but it doesnt have to give him this. What HSBC must do is tell Mr E the rate its 
applying to his transfer, and it did this. It told him the rate it would use, and Mr E accepted 
that. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong here.
I appreciate that Mr E has since seen that the market rate at the time was better than the 
rate he received. But its common for banks to apply margins to rates, or to charge its 
customers to make international money transfers. And different banks will do things 
differently. Mr E has made a comparison to the way his other bank calculates the transfers. 
And he says he feels that HSBC hasnt been transparent. But HSBC made the rate it would use for Mr Es transaction clear to him before he made that transaction. It was then Mr Es 
choice to go ahead at that rate.
Its not the role of this service to tell HSBC how to determine its rates. Mr E says that as 
there was no specific margin mentioned in the rate, he believed HSBC didnt add a margin, 
and felt he was getting the best rate. But HSBC set out the interest rate that would be 
applied to Mr Es transaction, so he was aware of what rate he was getting. HSBC didnt 
need to explain how it came up with that rate to Mr E. And Mr E was free to look at other 
available ways of converting his money but chose to use HSBC. So, I dont think HSBC has 
made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman