DRN-3575915
The complaint
Mrs A complains through her representative that Loans 2 Go lent money to her irresponsibly 
on a high cost loan, that she has been unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mrs A with a loan for £1,000 on 27 September 2021, repayable over 78 
weeks at the weekly rate of around £48.  She complained that the loan put her in financial 
difficulty.
Loans 2 Go said that it had carried out the normal verification checks, including verifying her 
income, assessing her outgoings using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data and carrying 
out a credit check. It assessed that Mrs A was able to afford the loan.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said there were indications 
that Mrs A was having financial difficulties particularly as she had a high level of credit 
commitments compared to her income. She didnt think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out 
were proportionate and that if it had carried out proportionate checks it would have found 
that the loan repayments were unsustainable. She referred in particular to the bank 
statements Mrs A supplied.
Loans 2 Go disagreed, it said it carried out a thorough check to satisfy itself, beyond 
reasonable doubt, that Mrs A could afford the loan. It pointed out that it isnt required to 
obtain bank statements, and didnt think that was necessary in this case.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs As ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs A undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
In this case, although the amount loaned wasnt very high, Mrs A would have had a 
considerable commitment, for 18 months, paying the loan on a weekly basis. She also had a 
relatively low income. So Loans 2 Go should have carried out a thorough assessment of 
Mrs A s finances.
According to the credit check report, Mrs A had a County Court Judgment for £3,196, 
outstanding since December 2016. She also had a Hire Purchase (HP) account for which 
she was paying £172 a month, a mail order account and two small loans. She didnt appear 
to be making any payments towards the CCJ, but it was still active. Allowing a payment of 
5% of the balance on the mail order account, and the same for the CCJ, she had credit 
commitments of around £368 a month. Calculating the loan on a monthly basis a further 
£206 would be added. On an assessed monthly income of around £1,357 a month Mrs A 
would have had credit commitments of around 43%. Even with allowing minimal payments of 
£15 a month payment on the CCJ, this figure would be still be around 32%. Either way, this 
is a high figure and a strong indication that the loan might not be affordable.
Loans 2 Go says it assessed Mrs As monthly expenditure, including credit commitments at 
£1,001. This would have meant, on the face of it, that with the new loan instalment Mrs A 
would have been left with a disposable income of around £160 a month. But I dont think this 
paints a realistic picture. In light of her substantial credit commitments and the active CCJ, I 
think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further financial checks, or rejected the application 
as being unaffordable. 
Although I accept that the regulations dont require this, Loans 2 Go could have requested bank statements. Mrs A has provided such statements for the two months leading up to the 
loan application. From these statements its clear she was borrowing from private individuals 
(I assume members of her family). She was making payments of around £35 a month to 
debt collectors, and several payments a month on an existing home credit loan.
It appears that, although Mrs A didnt go overdrawn, her income (including any borrowings) 
was fully committed. I think it likely that she didnt have sufficient disposable income to afford 
the new loan.  I dont think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out showed the loan to be 
affordable and any further checks could have confirmed this. So, I think it didnt make a fair 
lending decision. 
Putting things right
Mrs A has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Loans 2 Go should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs A as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs A has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs A
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Mrs As 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman