DRN-3563809
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
 What happened
In December 2019 Mr P booked a holiday with a company Ill call B. He paid for £2,640 of 
the total £3,640 cost using his Nationwide credit card. In March 2020, as a result of the 
COVID pandemic, B cancelled the holiday. Initially B said it would refund the cost directly to 
Mr P, but subsequently changed its mind and said it would not be refunding anything to him.
So in May 2020, having been unable to make any progress with getting a refund from B, 
Mr P raised a claim with Nationwide under Section 75. At the same time, Mr P also began 
court proceedings against B.
On 6 August 2020 Nationwide contacted Mr P to ask him for some more information about 
the claim. In this letter Nationwide explained the amount had been placed into dispute on 
Mr Ps account. This meant at this stage Mr P was not expected to repay the amount and 
would not be charged interest on it. Mr P provided the additional information Nationwide had 
asked for on 19 August 2020. Mr P has said he then received only messages apologising for 
the delay, but was unable to get any meaningful update from Nationwide about what was 
happening with his claim. In the meantime, the courts had upheld Mr Ps claim and directed 
B to refund the cost of the holiday to Mr P. Mr P then had to seek a third party debt order to 
get the amount refunded to him as B continued to refuse to pay, but by 5 October 2020 Mr P 
had received a refund of the cost of the holiday.
On 20 October 2020 Nationwide made contact with Mr P. It apologised for the delays in 
progressing his Section 75 claim and said it would be providing him with a response to his 
claim within two weeks. Mr P explained he had already received a refund of the funds in 
question, and so Nationwide confirmed it would close his claim as the issue appeared to 
have been resolved.
Mr P was very unhappy that Nationwide appeared to have done nothing to investigate his 
claim, and so he complained. Nationwide agreed there had been significant delays in its 
handling of Mr Ps claim, and initially offered him £50 to recognise any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. This was ultimately increased to £100.
Mr P remained unhappy with Nationwides response and so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but felt Nationwides payment of £100 
was fair. Mr P disagreed, so his complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons.
I understand Mr P feels that if Nationwide had dealt with his Section 75 claim more quickly 
then he would have been saved the stress of pursuing his claim through the courts. And I 
acknowledge that there were significant delays in Nationwides handling of his claim. 
Nationwide has explained that it usually would provide a response to a Section 75 claim 
within 6-8 weeks and agrees that it was significantly outside that timescale in Mr Ps case. 
But while I agree, overall, that Nationwide could have dealt with Mr Ps claim more quickly, I 
also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. The global 
pandemic meant many firms faced significant operational challenges during this period. And 
given the huge number of flights and holidays that were cancelled or otherwise disrupted by 
the pandemic, businesses like Nationwide were also dealing with unprecedented numbers of 
claims like Mr Ps. With all this in mind, I think some level of delay was to be expected. 
So the initial delay here, between when Mr P contacted Nationwide about his claim and 
when Nationwide got in touch to ask him for more information, doesnt seem wholly 
unreasonable against the background detailed above. But Mr P then waited a further nine 
weeks without any clear progress in his claim, by which time it had been resolved through 
the court process.
I agree with Mr P that this was an unreasonably long delay, given that Nationwide does 
seem to have started investigating his claim in August 2020 its not clear why it then made 
little to no progress for over two months. But while I acknowledge this delay was frustrating 
for Mr P, he was nonetheless able to get a full refund of the money he paid for his cancelled 
holiday through the court process that was running alongside his claim with Nationwide. So 
the delay didnt ultimately affect the outcome of Mr Ps claim against B. And I think it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to close down the claim at this stage as the issue of the refund 
had essentially been resolved.
I understand Mr Ps position that if Nationwide had handled things better then he wouldnt 
have had to go through the stress of the court process. But it was his choice to pursue B 
through the courts at the same time as raising his claim with Nationwide, and that would 
always have resulted in some level of hassle for Mr P. I also note that when Nationwide 
contacted Mr P in August it explained it was essentially suspending the payment to B, and 
therefore wouldnt be asking him to repay it or to pay interest on it while it looked into his 
claim. This meant Mr P could have then waited for Nationwide to complete its investigation 
without it causing him any financial detriment. But Mr P chose to continue to pursue B 
through the courts.
Lastly, I acknowledge Mr Ps comments about the level of customer service he received from 
Nationwide, specifically regarding the generic updates he got. These messages apologised 
for the delay but gave no further information and Mr P was unable to discuss his claim with 
anyone as the team dealing with Section 75 claims werent available for phone calls. I 
appreciate that this lack of information will have been frustrating for Mr P, but while the 
updates he got may not have given him any detailed information about what was happening, 
they did at least show Nationwide was still dealing with his claim and that it hadnt been 
forgotten. 
Overall, I agree Nationwide could have handled Mr Ps claim better. But Nationwide has 
already paid Mr P £100 in recognition of the poor service it provided. And bearing in mind all 
Ive seen, I think that is an appropriate award for the distress and inconvenience Nationwide 
caused to Mr P.I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, but I hope he will at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman