DRN-3956118
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the poor customer service she received when she was 
applying for a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Miss M says she was 
made to feel discriminated against by Halifaxs mortgage adviser (MA). Miss M is also 
unhappy about the way Halifax dealt with her complaint.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
I also note that Halifax has agreed it could have done things better and the bank has made 
an offer of compensation, so I dont need to go into all the details in order to find out what 
happened. All I need to decide is whether the level of compensation Halifax has offered is 
fair and reasonable. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include 
any information that might lead to Miss M being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep 
my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in April 2022 Miss M contacted Halifax to discuss a mortgage. During the call, the MA 
asked a question which Miss M thought was discriminatory and she was very upset about it. 
Miss M complained to Halifax. 
The bank explained that its system was set up to prompt particular questions as part of its 
Know Your Customer regulatory obligations. However, because Miss M was an existing 
customer, this information should have been pre-filled or cross-referenced. But due to a 
glitch on the system, this didnt happen and so the question was asked. Halifax offered to 
arrange for Miss M to speak to a different MA, but she declined and decided to arrange her 
mortgage through an independent broker. Halifax paid Miss M compensation of £175.
Dissatisfied with this, Miss M brought her complaint to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. He didnt think the £175 was sufficient compensation and asked Halifax 
to pay £300 in total. The investigator also said that, if Miss M provided an invoice from the 
mortgage broker, Halifax should pay those costs, which Miss M had said was about £450.
Halifax agreed to this, but Miss M didnt. She wanted Halifax to pay £1,500 for the emotional 
and mental impact these events had had on her. Miss M said the banks actions had caused 
her to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder.
Miss M also raised a new issue wit the investigator  she wasnt happy with the way Halifax 
had dealt with the complaint. Miss M said she thought the complaints manager tried to 
downplay her experience and gaslight her. 
Halifax wasnt willing to increase the compensation and so it falls to me to issue a decision 
on this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this regard, Ive noted what Miss M has said about the way her complaint was handled 
and her dissatisfaction with the complaints manager. I must explain, however, that I can only 
consider a complaint if it is about a regulated activity. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated 
activity, which means its not covered by our rules. As a result, I am unable to comment any 
further about this.
I confirm Ive listened to all the call recordings provided. However, as I said at the outset, 
Halifax has already accepted it could have done better, so the only issue I need to decide is 
the level of compensation the bank should pay.
I acknowledge and accept that the question Miss M was asked caused her upset. Its 
unfortunate that Halifaxs system wasnt able to override this, given that Miss M has been a 
customer of the bank for many years. 
Ive noted what Miss M has said about the long-term impact this has had on her mental 
health and emotional wellbeing. However, Ive not been provided with any doctors report or 
medical evidence to persuade me that anything Halifax did, or didnt do, caused Miss M to 
suffer with post-traumatic stress disorder, as she has claimed. Given this, Im not persuaded 
that an award of £1,500 is fair or proportionate.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that, in addition to the £175 already paid, Halifax should pay Miss M a further 
£125, to bring the total compensation to £300. I think this is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the customer service error made by the bank. 
Miss M has told us she paid about £450 for the services of a mortgage broker. If Miss M is 
able to provide Halifax with a verifiable invoice for this amount from the mortgage broker, 
Halifax should reimburse this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to settle the complaint as detailed above. I make no other 
order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman