DRN-1234129
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that, without giving her any notice, British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) 
cancelled an appointment under her home emergency insurance policy to repair a water 
leak, which caused her loss and inconvenience.
 What happened 
Ms A had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI in respect of a residential property 
which was let to a tenant. In July 2019 a water leak arose in the wash basin of the 
downstairs cloakroom. Ms A contacted BGI under her emergency policy and arranged an 
appointment on a specific day between 1.00 pm and 6.00 pm.
At 2.00 pm on the day of the appointment Ms A phoned BGI to ask if it could say more 
specifically when its plumber would arrive. BGI told Ms A that the appointment had been 
cancelled. Another appointment was arranged for four days later, when the necessary repair 
was completed.
Ms A complained to BGI. She said that because BGI failed to tell her in advance the 
appointment had been cancelled, she had to take two days off work instead of one  as did 
the tenant also. So they had both lost wages. She also had travel costs to and from the 
property on both occasions.
BGI apologised for its poor customer service in cancelling the first appointment and not 
communicating this to Ms A. It said it wouldnt reimburse her for loss of earnings, but offered 
£20 as an apology for failing to attend as agreed. Ms A said she thought £100 was 
appropriate compensation. BGI didnt agree. It said:
it was Ms As, and the tenants, choice to be present when the plumber called;
its agent had tried to phone Ms A during the morning of the first appointment to tell 
her there was a problem, but couldnt make contact;
Ms A said she had taken half a days annual leave to meet its engineer. But most 
people were paid for such leave;
BGI had no contractual relationship with the tenant so could only consider 
compensation in respect of Ms A;
the cancellation was due to an increase in emergency related faults; and
it thought compensation of £20 was fair and in line with payments it would normally 
award for this type of issue.
 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He agreed as the policy 
was in the name of Ms A, he could only consider the impact on her, not the tenant. He said 
Ms A phoned BGI to ask when the plumber was likely to arrive. If she hadnt, he didnt think 
BGI would have made her aware that the appointment had been cancelled.
He didnt think BGI took sufficient steps to tell Ms A her appointment had been cancelled. 
She had to take additional time off work as well as pay for travel. He thought it was wrong of BGI to assume Ms A would be paid for the extra time off; self-employed people didnt have 
this facility. So he recommended that BGI increase its compensation to £100.
BGI responded to say, in summary, that:
it wasnt sure why Ms A needed to be present as well as her tenant;
its agent had tried to call Ms A on the morning of the appointment. But Ms As phone 
didnt have voicemail so it couldnt leave a message. It couldnt say if its agent would 
have tried to call Ms A further if she hadnt rung BGI. Ms A had said it should have 
sent a text, but it didnt have this facility;
within an hour into the scheduled time slot Ms A was aware it had been cancelled;
as Ms A chose to be present during the plumbers visit, she would have to have 
travelled on at least one occasion. So any compensation should only reflect one 
journey to the property, and one afternoon away from work;
to minimise further inconvenience the replacement visit was timed for a narrower 
time slot; and
£20 reflected the level of compensation it was accustomed to make in situations such 
as this. Ms A hadnt told BGI she was self-employed, or suggested she had further 
losses or expenses. So it thought it had acted reasonably in offering £20 and 
wouldn't increase this offer.
 
Ms A responded to these comments to say, in summary, that:
she wanted to be present during the visit because, amongst other reasons, the 
tenant had only recently moved into the property, and English wasnt their first 
language;
she was self-employed. She had cancelled all her appointments for the time slot 
between 1.00pm and 6.00 pm on the afternoon of the visit. By the time she was told 
the visit was cancelled, she couldn't reinstate them at short notice. So her afternoon 
was wasted and she suffered financial loss;
to reach the property she had taken a minicab, the cost of which alone was more 
than the £20 BGI had offered;
because of the continuing leak, a bucket had to be placed under the wash basin and 
emptied regularly night and day. Because of the cancellation, this had to be done by 
the tenant for a further 4 days; and
she quoted evidence that British Gas, as an energy supplier, had been required by its 
regulator Ofgen to pay its customers £30 for a missed or delayed appointment, and a 
further £30 if this wasn't paid within 10 working days. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 BGIs terms and conditions for its home emergency policy contain the following provision:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.In this case BGI says it was pressure of other emergency calls that required it to cancel the 
arranged appointment. I havent seen any evidence of what these were, or when BGI or its 
agent decided that Ms As appointment would have to be cancelled. 
The agent made one phone call at 10.00 am on the morning of the visit, which was 
scheduled for between 1.00 pm and 6.00 pm. Contact with Ms A wasn't made, but neither 
BGI nor the agent seems to have made any further attempt to contact her. She only found 
out the visit had been cancelled when she rang BGI at 2.00pm.
Like the investigator, I dont think BGI did enough to meet its obligations under the policy 
terms and conditions to notify Ms A of the cancelled visit as soon as possible. I think it 
should have made further attempts to contact her. She only found out because she took the 
initiative and phoned BGI.
Ms A has explained why she wanted to attend the visit, and I dont think this was 
unreasonable of her. She has explained that she is self-employed and the cancelled visit 
meant she incurred a wasted minicab fare, she cancelled business appointments 
unnecessarily, and so lost business earnings.
Ms A hasn't quantified her lost earnings, which in a self-employed business can be difficult to 
do. However, I accept she is likely to have suffered some financial loss because of her 
wasted afternoon. 
Although she and her tenant suffered inconvenience because the leak continued for a further 
4 days, I cant say BGI should compensate Ms A for this. The terms and conditions provide 
that a visit may have to be cancelled, and if BGI had followed the terms and conditions and 
notified her promptly, this inconvenience would still have occurred.
Ms A has mentioned the compensation provisions for missed or delayed appointments that 
Ofgen has required British Gas to follow in respect of its energy supply business. However, 
BGI is a separate company from British Gas, and isnt regulated by Ofgen. So these 
provisions arent directly relevant to this complaint.
Putting things right
We consider every complaint that is brought to us individually. Where we think poor 
customer service by a business means compensation is appropriate, we assess this on the 
basis of the individual circumstances of the complaint.
In this case I think BGI should have done more to try to contact Ms A earlier when it became 
apparent her appointment would have to be cancelled. In the event, she had a wasted 
minicab journey and some business loss. All in all, I think its reasonable for BGI to pay her 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, inclusive of the £20 it 
has already offered.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Ms A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, inclusive of the 
£20 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Lennox TowersOmbudsman