DRN-3039047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. They later adjusted the policy 
when they took out a further advance in 2000. Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case one or both of them 
were off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds a provisional decision on 23 July 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
In both 1998 and 2000, Mr and Mrs B submitted an application for PPI, to take out and then 
adjust the policy respectively. On both occasions they signed specifically for PPI, and set up 
a direct debit specifically to pay for it, separately to paying the mortgage itself  the policy 
was not part and parcel of the lending. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds 
sales process from the time, nor anything which makes me think that Mr and Mrs B were 
misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs B 
as possible, Ill assume it did. That means Lloyds to check the policy was right for them  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of their work 
benefits and most likely offered them more comprehensive cover. I understand they only had 
limited savings otherwise, and the PPI meant they could effectively protect any savings and 
use them for other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save 
another. I also understand Mr and Mrs Bs family may have been happy to help, but there 
was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr 
and Mrs Bs responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Lloyds had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it.
Mr and Mrs B mentioned they may have had other insurance, though understandably they 
werent able to provide many details about this. But the problem is that from what theyve 
told us, its not even clear what this other policy was or when they had it  so they may have 
only taken it out some time after buying PPI, or it may have covered different things to the 
PPI, and so on. Indeed, from what Mr and Mrs B have said about who that insurer was and 
the amount it would pay out, it sounds like this was critical illness and life cover. And that 
type of insurance covered different things to PPI and was not an alternative to PPI. So based 
on what Ive got so far, Im not currently satisfied this other policy was relevant. Of course, if 
Mr and Mrs B provide further evidence of this other policy in response to this provisional 
decision, then Ill be happy to reconsider this point.
Its also worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs B would have the same benefits, 
work situation, or good health in the many years to come. And if they fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. Taking everything together, it looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs B chose to take out and then amend PPI, 
which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs B werent 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for 
them in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it 
would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs B 
could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 August 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs B nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this policy to have 
been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman