DRN-3325805
The complaint
Mr M complains that London Capital Credit Union Limited (LCCU) have reported incorrect
information to credit reference agencies and they hadnt fully explained the interest they
charged on a loan.
What happened
Mr M had a loan with LCCU and the interest on the loan was 12.7% Annual Percentage Rate
(APR). Mr M took out a top up loan of £1,000 in November 2018 at 19.7% APR. His
payment for the loans combined were £250 a month. Due to personal circumstances, he
was unable to make his contractual payments to LCCU, so he wrote to them to see if they
could reconfigure his loan to pay £200 a month. Mr M had no response to his letter.
Mr M complained to LCCU. He said that it hadnt been explained to him that the whole of the
loan was at the increased rate of 19.7% instead of just the top up loan. He said his credit file
was also showing inaccurate information about how LCCU reported his payment history.
LCCU said that although they didnt receive Mr Ms letter, they would act as if they
retrospectively received it, which meant they agreed an arrangement for a lower payment
while Mr M was experiencing financial difficulties - to reduce the payments to £200 a month.
They said they would instruct the credit reference agencies that LCCU and Mr M had made
an arrangement.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said his credit score has been damaged and it
was making it difficult for him to find a cheaper place to rent. Our investigator partially upheld
his complaint. She said she wasnt satisfied that it was clearly explained to Mr M that the
whole of the loan would be charged at 19.7% APR.
Our investigator said LCCU should refund the difference in interest charged (due to the
increased rate of interest) on the original balance outstanding at the date the new loan
account was opened until the date of its closure. She said the effect will be the same as if
they were treated as separate loans. Mr M will end up paying interest at the original APR of
12.7% on the original loan, up to the date it was repaid by Mr M. But Mr M will pay 19.7%
APR on the additional amount of £1000 until the date its repaid.
Our investigator also said that although LCCU say that they hadnt received the letter he
wrote asking for his repayments to be reconfigured, LCCU accepted the lower monthly
payment that Mr M proposed in his letter and have marked all payments made for £200 as a
formal payment agreement and this is reflected on his credit file. LCCU confirmed that the
arrangement to pay flag was reported for this period and this is how she would expect LCCU
to report the amended payment amount and she had seen no error in how they have
reported his payment history.
LCCU said they would comply with our investigators view and carry out what she had said
regarding the interest on the loans. Mr M did not agree with our investigators view that LCCU
had accurately reported his repayment history. He said that he didnt agree with how LCCU
listed an agreement to pay when all they had done is opened up a new credit entry from
October 2020 and leave all of the previous late listings on file under the old account, none of
which refer to an agreement to pay and several of which are inaccurate. Mr M agreed to our
investigators view of how LCCU should recalculate the interest paid on the loans.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said LCCU shouldnt report an
arrangement to pay and numerical late listings. He said it was not factual that his credit file
was showing as one month late or two months late when the payments were in line with
what had been agreed.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to both LCCU and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Mr M has accepted our investigators view regarding the top up loan and the interest rates
and LCCU has agreed to take those actions to resolve this part of the complaint. So Im not
minded to interfere with this. So I must make it clear that I will only be looking at the
unresolved part of this complaint  how LCCU have reported Mr Ms payment history to the
credit reference agencies.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr M has on this issue and the implications that any
decision may have on his ability to find a cheaper place to rent. So I havent taken any
decision lightly. But I am persuaded that LCCU have reported his payment history accurately
and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill address the arrangement to pay marker. Ive looked at the letter that Mr M says he
sent LCCU. As both parties are aware, LCCU said they did not receive this letter. But they
have said they would act as if they had received the letter. Mr M asks for a reconfiguration of
his loan for £200 a month for what could be a year months but hopefully will be less than
that. So I am persuaded that Mr M is asking for an arrangement here, to pay less than his
contractual payment of £250 per month for a limited period of time  and not for the duration
of the loan.
As LCCU have accepted Mr Ms proposal to pay a lower monthly payment, then this is why it
has been reported as an arrangement to pay with the credit reference agencies. LCCU did
not have to accept Mr Ms arrangement proposal, although Im glad that they showed
forbearance here and accepted his request, especially when Mr M was going through some
very challenging personal circumstances. No new credit agreement was issued - and there
didnt need to be. I say this as a new loan had not been agreed as a result of the request to
accept Mr Ms arrangement to pay. All that LCCU agreed to do here was to accept the
request for lower monthly payments. So Im satisfied that the arrangement to pay was
reported to the credit reference agencies fairly here  even if this was retrospectively
reported.
Ive then considered what Mr M has said about his credit file also showing one or two
months missed payments at times, which he says this isnt factual. He says this shouldnt be
in addition to the arrangement to pay marker. So Ive looked at his statement of account to
see the summary of what Mr M has paid to LCCU and the dates he has made his payments.
I can see that in July 2019, Mr M did not make a payment to his account. So this would need
be recorded on his credit file as a missed payment, regardless of any arrangement to paymarker.
As Mr M did not clear the arrears from the missed payment in the following month, his
account would be showing as one month in arrears until the money had been paid (some
credit reference agencies may display this as a late payment each month). So although Mr
M may think that LCCU are reporting each month that he has missed a payment/made a late
payment each month when he has in fact made a payment, the credit reference agencies
are reflecting that his account was a month in arrears and that is why it appears he has
missed payments in months where he has paid the £200.
I say this as if LCCU had actually reported that he had missed payments each month of the
arrangement to pay, then his credit file would be showing one months late payment, then
two, then three and so on. But from the information Mr M has provided us from his credit file,
the highest number of months in arrears is two months.
This is because Mr M also missed his November 2019 payment. So because the arrears
from the July 2019 payment had not been cleared by Mr M and the November 2019 payment
had not been made, this is why his credit file shows as two months in arrears. Ive noted that
Mr M made a two payments of £200 on 30 December 2019, which would have reduced his
arrears by one month, but his account would have still been in arrears and this is why this
needs to be accurately reflected on his credit file  even if there is an arrangement to pay
marker.
Mr M also missed February 2020s payment. So Im persuaded that this is why his credit file
goes back to reporting two months in arrears. I can see he pays the £200 arrangement per
month from March 2020 until his loan is classed as settled in September 2020.
Im persuaded the reason Mr Ms credit file shows fluctuations between two months of
arrears (or two late payments) and one month of arrears, up until the loan is settled, is
because while Mr M was two months in arrears (for example if the July 2019 arrears were
cleared with the extra payment in December 2019, then this would leave the account
showing November 2019 and February 2020 as the months in arrears), Mr Ms makes
payments at different times of the month. So when LCCU reports the payment information to
the credit reference agencies, it may appear as if hes cleared one month of these arrears if
Mr M has made a payment before his due date and thats why it shows as one month in
arrears again, but then the following month Mr M may pay at a later date and thats why it
shows the accurate status of two months in arrears in other months.
In summary, Im persuaded that LCCU have provided the credit reference agencies with the
correct information. They accepted Mr Ms lower monthly payment and reported this as an
arrangement to pay proposal. This prevented possible default action which could have
happened otherwise. Mr M missed three payments after he wrote his letter to LCCU to lower
his payments. The missed payments were in July 2019, November 2019 and February 2020.
As only one of these missed payments was brought up to date after the missed date, then
LCCU correctly reported the account as being two months in arrears at times. If LCCU didnt
report the numerical arrears and the arrangement to pay, then it wouldnt be an accurate
representation of his payment history. I know Mr M will be disappointed, but it follows I dont
intend to ask LCCU to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman