DRN-4263466
The complaint
Mr B1 complains on behalf of his son (Mr B) that his broker, Ramasis Limited, acted 
unreasonably in charging to cancel Mr Bs learner driver motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B1 bought an annual learner driver policy for Mr B (a minor) online. He agreed during the 
sales process that hed read Ramasiss terms of business and the other details it had set out 
online. In a validation call with Ramasis, Mr B1 was asked who owned the car and whether 
there was any other insurance on it. Mr B1 said his wife owned it and was insured. The 
advisor then said one of the policies on the car would have to be cancelled, as it wasnt 
possible to have dual insurance cover. Mr B1 called again for clarification and another 
advisor confirmed that a cancellation was necessary. Mr B1 decided to cancel Mr Bs policy.  
Mr B1 later complained to Ramasis, having noted that its online information only said that it 
wasnt possible to have two annual policies on the same car, and Mrs Bs policy was only 
temporary. Ramasis didnt uphold the complaint  but subsequently, it told us it didnt deal 
with dual insured cars - whether or not one of the policies was temporary.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said Ramasiss 
terms of business were brought to Mr B1s attention during the sales process, so he had the 
chance to query them before he bought the policy. And he also said Mr B1 wasnt an eligible 
complainant (under the dispute resolution rules that govern our service - as set out by our 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority). 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr B1 was confused initially about what had happened, partly because he knew that 
some businesses are happy to arrange learner driver cover alongside an existing annual 
policy. I think its for each insurer to decide if it wants to do that and for each broker to 
choose what business it takes on. But I think a consumer should be made aware before 
buying a policy whether other cover on the same car is acceptable or not.
Ramasis provided an Important Information for Learner Driver Policies note online. Mr B1 
read it, but as it only said it wasnt possible to have two annual policies on a car at the same 
time, he didnt think it applied to Mr B. He told us that in the two calls he had with advisors 
later, they didnt seem to know that Mrs Bs policy was temporary. Ive listened to the calls, 
and I think the advisors understanding of Ramasiss position was that any cover on the car - 
other than the learner driver policy - was unacceptable to it. That fits with what Ramasis told 
us. But it conflicts with the online note and with what Ramasis said in its reply to Mr B1s 
complaint  which was that it wasnt possible to have two concurrent annual policies.
I dont think Ramasis was clear enough about its requirements during the sales process, so 
Id have asked it to refund the cancellation charge to Mr B1 had he been an eligible 
complainant under our rules. I dont think hed have gone ahead with the policy had he 
known that even the temporary cover on the car wasnt acceptable. The reason Mr B1 isnt 
an eligible complainant is because although hes a consumer, he doesnt satisfy the 
requirement to have a relationship with Ramasis thats set out in the rules. He wasnt its  
customer or potential customer, as he was acting purely on Mr Bs behalf.  
As Mr B is an eligible complainant, the rules would allow me to require Ramasis to 
compensate him. But in order to do that, Id have to conclude that it did something wrong in 
relation to Mr B that I can ask it to put right  or that any inconvenience caused to Mr B1 by 
Ramasis had a knock-on effect on Mr B. 
I dont think Mr B lost out financially, as Mr B1 paid the cancellation charge. And although I 
think its likely that Mr B1 was inconvenienced to some extent by having to look elsewhere 
for cover, theres nothing to show that any inconvenience on his part impacted on Mr B. So 
in my opinion, theres nothing for Ramasis to put right for Mr B. 
I understand why Mr B and Mr B1 are likely to be disappointed with my decision. And 
although I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint, I think he and Mr B1 have brought a valid issue to 
Ramasiss attention, which may lead it to review the wording of the learner driver policy note. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman