DRN-4131834
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice Tideway Investment Partners LLP (Tideway) gave to him 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, 
paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation 
levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
The BSPS provided Mr M with a summary of the transfer value of his scheme benefits. They 
had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £166,125.
Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements would mean for the security of 
his pension. In July 2016 he approached Tideway for advice. Tideway sent Mr M information 
about its service and asked him to complete a fact find questionnaire. Mr M completed it 
telling Tideway he: 
 was 61 years old, single with no dependents; 
 was a non-professional carer;
 received 0 income;
 owned his home outright, which was worth around £450,000;
 had cash and savings worth £146,000;
 had a second final salary pension of around £2,500 a year;
 described himself as a low risk investor; and
 didnt want to pay Tideways fees for ongoing financial advice.
Tideway spoke with Mr M and on 21 July 2016 it sent him two documents: an initial 
appraisal and a final salary transfer report. Such reports are generally referred to as 
suitability reports and thats the term I will use in this decision. The suitability report set out 
Tideways analysis and recommendations. It recommended Mr M should transfer his DB 
scheme funds to a named SIPP. In brief it said that doing so would:
 Allow Mr M to access his funds flexibly.
 Let him leave any residual pension to his beneficiaries on his death.
 Have the potential to grow the size of his pension in real terms. 
 Give him the option to make bigger withdrawals in the early years of retirement. 
 Give him control over the pension fund as he had concerns over the stability of the 
BSPS and the chance it would enter the PPF.
 
The suitability report made no recommendation for how Mr M should invest the funds after 
opening the SIPP. 
Mr M accepted Tideways advice and his funds were transferred to the named SIPP.
Mr M complained to Tideway in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt 
think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was right for him. 
Tideway didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In short it said that transferring allowed Mr M to 
achieve his objectives.
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
spoke with him. During that conversation, amongst other things, Mr M said that since moving 
his funds to the SIPP he had invested in one share and he left the rest in cash. Another 
Investigator looked into the complaint. He thought Tideways advice was unsuitable. In short 
he said Mr M wasnt likely to improve on the guaranteed benefits he already had by 
transferring. And he didnt think there was any other reason to transfer that was worthwhile 
Mr M giving up his DB benefits for. 
Tideway didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It didnt provide 
any reasons for disagreeing with his analysis. Instead it said that the regulator (the Financial 
Conduct Authority - FCA) had selected Mr Ms case for a file review. When doing so it had 
identified missing information gaps. Tideway said the regulator had asked it to request the 
missing information from Mr M. It had done so but he had refused to give answers. Tideway 
said the regulator had told it that without that information it couldn't assess the suitability of 
its advice. Tideway told us that it couldnt understand how we could decide its advice wasnt 
suitable when the regulator, using the same information, couldnt make that determination. 
So, because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tideway's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tideway 
should have only considered a transfer suitable if it could clearly demonstrate it was in 
Mr Ms best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Reasons for my findings
When assessing whether a transfer is suitable the regulator requires Tideway to take 
reasonable steps to obtain the necessary information from Mr M about things like his 
investment experience, financial situation and his investment objectives. And that includes 
information about his regular income and financial commitments.
When Mr M completed Tideways fact-find, the answers he gave indicated he had no income 
from any source whatsoever. When it spoke with Mr M Tideway noted he had no need for 
tax free cash (TFC) or an income at that time. He also told it he might sell his home and 
downsize at some point in the future. Tideways suitability report also said Mr M had no need 
to draw an income immediately. But Tideway hasn't recorded why he had no need for an 
income. Also, Tideway hasn't noted what Mr Ms regular financial commitments were or how 
he was meeting these. in addition it didn't do any form of assessment of what Mr Ms income 
needs would be in retirement or how he would meet those. So I don't think Tideway gathered 
all the information needed in order to have a full picture of Mr Ms financial situation or what 
that would look like in retirement. So, I dont think Tideway gathered enough information 
about Mr Ms circumstances in order to make a personal recommendation to him. Further the regulator also required Tideway to compare the likely benefits (on reasonable 
assumptions) of the DB scheme with the likely returns from transferring. The regulator says 
that comparison should:
be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of the 
assets in which the retail clients funds are invested.
The regulator has also made it clear that in order to give suitable advice on a DB transfer, 
the advice has to include the suitability of the underlying investments. But in this case 
Tideway didnt make any recommendation about which funds Mr M should invest in. And 
without knowing what funds he would invest in I dont think Tideway followed the appropriate 
process or provided a reasonable comparison. Similarly, without assessing and 
recommending an investment strategy in line with Mr Ms risk appetite I dont think Tideway 
gave him enough information with which he could make an informed decision to transfer.
Also, the regulator required Tideway to carry out a transfer value analysis. That's usually 
presented by way of a report, known as a TVAS. Tideway hasn't provided a copy of such a 
report, although I've noted its suitability report does refer to some of the features a TVAS 
would provide. For example it said that, in order to match Mr Ms DB benefit income on a 
like-for-like basis the growth rate required (the critical yield) was 18.2%. It said such a growth 
rate was impossible to achieve. The critical yield figure was a measure given in a standard 
TVAS report at that time. I agree with Tideways analysis that a critical yield of 18.2% was 
virtually impossible to achieve. 
But, Tideway went on to say that a comparison based on critical yield was largely irrelevant 
for those who took their benefits by drawdown. In other words its dismissed the figure as 
being of little use. However, I find the critical yield is a useful tool as it is a reasonable 
comparison of the growth required in order to replace DB benefits with something of a similar 
nature; that is a product that would provide a guaranteed income for life. And the regulator 
required Tideway to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up. So, Tideway needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield and I do think its a relevant consideration. However, rather than using it 
as a starting point to explain to Mr M why he would most likely be worse off by transferring, 
Tideway essentially said Mr M could ignore it. I don't think that was a reasonable thing to do.
Further, instead of using the critical yield figure, Tideway instead said investment returns of 
6.04% a year, after fees, would match Mr Ms DB scheme income until beyond his life 
expectancy to age 100. But Mr M told us that the SIPP fees were 1% a year. So Tideways 
return rate would rise to 7.04% once those were factored in. Tideway went on to say that a 
return of 4 to 5% after fees (or 5 to 6% when including the fees) was not unrealistic. It didnt 
say at what age Mr M would deplete his funds if they did grow at those rates. But I find the 
prospect of returns at those rates for an investor with Mr Ms low attitude to risk highly 
unlikely.
To put this into context Tideway gave its advice during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain 
that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable when Tideway advised Mr M. The relevant discount rate was 2.8% for three full years to retirement when Mr M turned 65. 
That is considerably below, the 4 to 5% (5 to 6% once fees are factored in) Tideway believed 
Mr M might achieve and less than half the 7.04% Tideway calculated would be required to 
allow Mr M to access funds by drawdown beyond his life expectancy. And 2.8% is a mere 
fraction of the 18.2% critical yield that was required to provide like-for-like benefits with the 
DB scheme and was the industry recognised measure for making benefit comparisons at 
that time. 
Also, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2% a year. So, for someone with a low risk appetite like Mr M, 
the lowest projection rate of 2% would seem the most likely reasonable rate of return. Yet 
Tideway was essentially telling Mr M he could achieve double or triple that. However, looking 
at the discount rate the regulators low projection rate of the critical yield shows that was 
most unlikely.
In addition, Tideway didnt give Mr M an investment strategy. So he instead held the majority 
of his funds in cash. And given the low interest rates prevalent at the time, that had no 
prospect of giving him the sorts of returns Tideways suitability report said he could expect 
from transferring to a SIPP.
So, having considered the above I think Mr M was most likely to receive benefits of a 
materially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with his low attitude to risk. And for that reason I don't think a transfer was in his best 
interests. 
Further, Mr M was seeking advice because of his concerns over the stability of the DB 
scheme and the prospect that his funds would have entered the PPF. But Tideway didnt 
provide any analysis about what Mr Ms likely benefits from the PPF would be or show how 
those would compare with benefits from a transfer to a SIPP. So I don't think it gave him 
enough information about whether or not a transfer was suitable for him. 
Tideway also said transferring gave Mr M flexibility to access his benefits as he chose and to 
take larger sums earlier in his retirement. But theres no evidence on file that Mr M required 
flexible access to his pension funds. As I've said above, Tideway didnt record any 
information about what Mr Ms outgoings were or what his likely income needs would be in 
retirement. So, its not clear why Mr M would require flexible access to his funds nor has 
Tideway provided any rationale for why this flexibility would be worthwhile giving up the 
guarantees the DB scheme offered him. 
Also, Mr M had £146,000 in savings. So, if he wanted to access funds in a flexible manner, 
then he could have done so by making withdrawals from his savings in that way, while also 
taking his secure income from his DB scheme. That would have given him a higher amount 
of guaranteed income for life, thereby decreasing his overall risk in retirement. So, I dont 
think it was suitable or in Mr Ms best interests for Tideway to advise him to transfer his DB 
pension, potentially exposing him to the risks of the financial markets, just to have extra 
flexibility that he didnt need. 
Tideway also recommended the transfer because it would allow Mr M to leave any residual 
pension to his beneficiaries on his death. Mr M was single with no dependents. So, unless 
he married in later life, which couldnt be discounted, the spouses benefits from the DB 
scheme was unlikely to be of value to him and his pension would die with him. In contrast he 
could leave any sums remaining in his SIPP on his death to his nominated beneficiaries. But 
I dont think the possibility of more attractive death benefits was a sufficient reason to 
recommend a transfer. Tideways priority was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to 
beneficiaries after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr M was essentially 
giving up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a 
lump sum for his family that they may not receive for many years to come. 
I don't doubt that the CETV figure would have appeared an attractive sum to be able to leave 
as a legacy. But, in reality, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely 
to be different. The fund would be depleted by Mr Ms withdrawals from it in his lifetime. So, 
how much would remain in it on his death depended on a number of factors. And there may 
not have been much left in his SIPP if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, 
or if he took large sums from it early in his retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And ultimately Tideway should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a SIPP over 
his security in retirement.
I understand Mr M approached Tideway because he was concerned about the stability of the 
BSPS. At the time his employer had begun consultation about the future of the scheme. And 
there was the possibility his pension fund could be transferred to the PPF. However, there 
was also the possibility of a new scheme being set up. But when Tideway gave its advice the 
likely outcome was not known and wouldn't be for some time. So, while I dont doubt that this 
was a worrying period for Mr M, and others in a similar situation, it wasnt the case that he 
had to make any urgent decisions as the BSPS schemes future was still a matter for 
consultation.
Further, Tideways role was to objectively address any concerns Mr M might have had. The 
PPF would have still given Mr M a guaranteed income worth roughly 90% of his BSPS 
entitlement. And he would be unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought. So I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest. But, while 
Tideway did provide a link to the PPFs website, its summary of the PPFs benefits in its 
suitability report is extremely brief. It consists of two sentences of less than 40 words in total. 
That was unlikely to have done much to explain the benefits the PPF offered or to allay 
Mr Ms fears about what the PPF could mean for him. I dont think that was a fair or 
reasonable manner in which to set out the valuable support the PPF offers. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr M would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Tideway gave to Mr M was unsuitable 
for him.
Turning to Tideways comments about the regulators file review. Ill say first that Tideway 
hasn't given us any source material from the regulators review. So I haven't seen the 
regulators notes, questions or a completed  or partially completed  Defined Benefit Advice 
Assessment Tool (DBAAT)1 . So its extremely difficult for me to say with any confidence 
what actions the regulator took or why.
1 The DBAAT is a mechanism the FCA introduced in 2019 to help it assess the suitability of DB 
transfer advice..Tideway said the regulator noted some missing information gaps and asked it to make 
enquiries of Mr M to fill those gaps. Mr M didn't answer the questions and  according to 
Tideway  the regulator said it wasnt in a position to say whether or not its advice was 
suitable. So Tideway doesn't understand how our Investigator could conclude its advice 
wasnt suitable when the regulator didnt have enough information to determine the question.
Ill note first that the regulators guidance for completing the DBAAT indicates that where 
there are missing information gaps that can't be filled with information the advising firm 
already holds, then the DBAAT should be noted as non-compliant. In other words the 
advising firm concerned has failed to meet its regulatory information gathering requirements. 
I don't know whether or not that was the regulators conclusion in this case.
However, Im not surprised the regulator found there were information gaps. As I've set out 
above, I dont think Tideway had enough information with which to make a personal 
recommendation to Mr M to transfer out of his DB scheme. And for the other reasons set out 
above, its plain to me its advice was unsuitable. I think thats easily apparent from the 
information on file, which, Tideway told us, is the same information it gave to the regulator. 
But, in any event, my role isn't to provide an analysis of the regulator's actions and we dont 
have the same function. Unlike the FCA our job is not a regulatory one. We are tasked with 
looking beyond simply whether a firm has complied with its regulatory requirements. Instead, 
we consider information from both parties and decide, while having regard for relevant law 
and regulations, what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. So, I dont think the fact the regulator had begun, but not completed, a separate 
review impacts on our consideration of this complaint. Nor does it prevent me from reaching 
my findings independently of the FCAs considerations. And having done so, for the reasons 
set out above, I'm satisfied that Tideways recommendation that Mr M should transfer wasnt 
in his best interests and so wasnt suitable for him. 
Instead I think Tideway should have advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme until the 
outcome of his employers consultation about the future of the scheme was known. Had it 
done so, I think Mr M would have then chosen to opt to join the BSPS2, which was 
eventually set up following the consultation. Thats because the BSPS2 essentially provided 
the same benefits as the BSPS although its yearly indexed increases were lower. But that 
would have been Mr Ms best option, so I think he would have chosen that if he hadn't 
already transferred out of the DB scheme. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice 
had been given. 
Tideway must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tideway should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to C and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Tideway based the inputs into the calculator on.Mr M has now retired, although he has yet to access his pension funds. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in 
the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tideway should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Tideways offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tideway may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tideway Investment 
Partners LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tideway Investment Partners LLP pays Mr M the balance. 
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tideway Investment 
Partners LLP. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman