DRN-1651005
 
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr S complain that Everyday Lending Limited didn't take into account their 
financial difficulties when handling their loan. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr S took out a loan with Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) in November 2017.
They say they've been struggling to repay the loan. And rather than offer meaningful help, 
ELL have only offered further lending which would cost more in the longer term.
In September 2019, Mrs P and Mr S made a complaint to ELL. That wasn't upheld. ELL said 
Mr S had contacted them about delaying a monthly payment, which he said was necessary 
because he was waiting for late payments from his clients. But he'd never suggested to them 
he was in financial difficulty.
Mrs P and Mr S weren't happy with this outcome and complained to us. They told us they 
want ELL to write off the debt. They say the interest rate was too high and they've now paid 
off the principal. ELL offering them more money will simply keep them in debt for longer.
Our investigator looked into and didn't think ELL had done anything wrong.
Mrs P and Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We'd expect that if ELL knew or suspected that Mrs P and Mr S were in financial difficulty, 
they'd act in accordance with the relevant lending standards and good practice and treat 
them reasonably and with understanding. 
In those circumstances, ELL might consider a number of options, including reducing or 
removing interest and/or charges for a period of time, for example. We'd expect them to 
work with Mrs P and Mr S to find a solution which essentially wouldn't force Mrs P and Mr S 
into an ever-increasing spiral of debt.
In this case though, until Mrs P and Mr S made their complaint in September 2019, I don't 
think ELL were made aware that Mrs P and Mr S were experiencing financial difficulty. And I 
don't think there was anything in the way repayments were being made that should have 
made them suspect financial difficulty and/or approach Mrs P and Mr S to see if they needed 
support. I'll explain my reasons for coming to that conclusion.
We have copies of the loan repayment history and ELL's customer contact notes for the 
length of the loan so far.The payment history shows payments being made every month from the outset. The contact 
notes don't record any mention of financial difficulty by Mrs P and Mr S until their complaint 
in September 2019.
I can see that there was a delayed payment in the first month or so of the loan. It appears 
that this was the result of Mrs P and Mr S asking to cancel the loan, but they deciding 
that they wanted to go ahead after all. There was then a slight delay when Mr S tried to pay 
by a method which in the end didn't work.
At that point, although the loan had a strange start to life, there's no reason for anyone to 
suspect financial difficulty.
In February 2018, Mr S asked for the monthly due date for repayments to be put back to the 
15th of each month. ELL agreed after Mr S explained there had been changes in the timing 
of salary payments. Again, there's no reason to suspect that's an indicator of financial 
difficulty. It appears, from what Mr S told ELL himself, that it was just a matter of timing his 
incomings and outgoings through the month.
I can see that Mr S requested a final settlement figure from ELL on a couple of occasions in 
2018. Again, there's no mention of financial difficulty - and no reason to suspect it. If 
anything, Mrs P and Mr S considering paying off the loan would indicate they might have 
funds available to do so.   
In June 2019, Mr S made contact with ELL to say his repayment that month would be 
delayed because he was awaiting late payments from clients. We have a recording of 
that call. 
ELL agreed to wait until the end of the month, but they specifically asked Mr S if he and  Mrs 
P were having trouble making the repayments. Mr S said the issue was only with 
that month's repayment and was a result of the specific circumstances relating to his clients' 
invoices being unpaid.
In that call and in a later call ELL made to Mr S that day, he was offered two options to either 
get a reduced interest rate on the loan or take out a consolidating loan to cover his debts.
In making him aware of these options, it appears ELL were offering some potential help to 
Mr S in managing his debts. Mr S called back the following week to say he didn't need to 
take either of the other options and was fine to continue with the current arrangement.
There was no further contact from Mr S or Mrs P until they made their complaint to ELL in 
September 2019.
Mrs P and Mr S haven't been able to provide any evidence to show they raised their financial 
difficulties with ELL before September 2019. 
So, I can't reasonably say that ELL should have picked up that Mrs P and Mr S were in 
financial difficulty before September 2019. In fact, repayments were being made each 
month. And when Mr S made contact with ELL to ask to delay payments in a particular 
month, he seemed at pains to assure them he wasn't experiencing any problem in repaying 
the debt.
In September 2019, ELL offered to re-schedule he loan to reduce the required monthly 
payments. Mr S refused this offer because he didn't want this to show on his credit reference 
file.Mrs P and Mr S appear to want ELL to write off the debt, but they don't want their credit 
ratings affected. I'm sorry, but I don't think that's a reasonable expectation. I'm really sorry 
Mrs P and Mr S find themselves in this position - which may be due to circumstances 
beyond their control - but if they take out loans and don't repay them, it's entirely reasonable 
that should be reflected in their credit files.   
Mr S has raised an issue about the interest rate on the loan. But he and Mrs P did take out 
the loan in full knowledge of the rate to be applied.
And although he's said at times that he had no issue with the loan being granted in the first 
place, he's now said  - in response to our investigator's view on this case - that it was 
unaffordable throughout. We've advised Mr S he'll need to make another complaint to ELL 
about that because he didn't raise it in his original complaint to them or in his complaint to 
us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mrs P and Mr S's complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman