DRN-1349400
The complaint
Mr O complained that Tesco Underwriting Ltd didnt repair his car properly after he claimed 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Os cars catalytic converter was stolen from his car Tesco had it repaired by their 
approved repairer (which Ill call Tescos garage). But Mr O said that he had problems with 
his car when they returned it. He said that the window glass was rattling, a headlamp only 
worked intermittently, the boot liner was unclipped and there was an issue with his door lock. 
He also said there was a fault on the board diagnostic port and his car would sometimes 
refuse to start. He said his car didnt have those problems before. He thought that this was 
because Tescos garage didnt read the fault codes correctly.
But Tesco said those matters werent related to the incident or to their subsequent repair and 
their engineer confirmed that. 
Mr O was also unhappy that he had to pay his policy excess and his future premiums would 
be adversely affected by the claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Tesco had acted fairly on the evidence they had. Mr O didnt agree and so his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
Mr O also claimed that Tesco s garage had fraudulently not fitted the parts they said they 
had. The investigator thought that this was a new complaint and that Tesco would need to 
be given the opportunity to respond to any evidence about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car could be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and 
whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs. 
Tesco accepted that theyd moved his cars boot liner for repair access but on discussion Mr 
O agreed he could clip it back in. 
Regarding the alleged fault on the board diagnostic port Tesco showed him their report from 
the manufacturer garage to which theyd sent Mr Os car to investigate fault codes. Tesco 
sent Mr O a copy of the manufacturer garage report which showed that they had cleared 
fault codes and recharged the battery and found there to be no faults.  Regarding the other 
matters Tesco relied on the evidence of their engineer who said that the window glass and 
headlamp issues were pe-existing and due to wear and tear and were on areas that had 
been unaffected by the converter theft and so Tesco hadnt worked on those areas.  So 
Tesco thought any issues Mr O was having were pre-existing and were not due to the 
incident or Tescos garages repairs. So Tesco didnt think any rectification was required.  
As above, and as the investigator also explained, we have to rely on the expert evidence 
provided to us. And as Mr O hasnt provided any independent evidence that the claimed 
problems were caused by the incident or Tescos garages subsequent repairs, I cant hold 
Tesco responsible for them. 
Mr O has also said that Tescos garage had fraudulently fitted the wrong or incompatible 
parts to his car, as the fitted parts werent the same as the list of the parts Tesco gave him 
showing what parts their garage had fitted. Mr O wanted our investigator to check those 
parts compatibility for his car. But as the investigator explained, thats not this services role 
and its up to the parties to provide the evidence in support of their claims. Mr O would have 
to show that his cars claimed problems happened because of the alleged fraudulent parts 
and give Tesco the chance to respond to that.  
I do think that its very unfortunate that Mr Os car was vandalised, and hes had this 
experience through no fault of his own. But I dont think that it was unfair for Tesco to decide 
as they did on the evidence they had. And so I dont require Tesco to do anything else in that 
regard. 
Mr O was also unhappy that he had to pay his policy excess and that his future premiums 
could increase because of something that wasnt his fault. But insurers are entitled to 
consider prior claims in assessing their risk. And all policies need the policyholder to pay 
something towards the claim whether or not they were at fault, and Mr O will have agreed to 
this by taking out the policy. Consumers can sometimes reclaim their policy excess from a 
third party responsible for the incident, but here it seems that thieves were not detected and 
so, again although thats very unfortunate, thats not Tescos responsibility or fault, and 
theyre entitled to receive Mr Os policy excess.  
Overall, I dont think that Tesco have do anything wrong and so I dont require them to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman