DRN-3109252
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the customer service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). In 
particular, he thinks they couldve done more to ensure he had access to the funds in his 
account. 
What happened
In November 2020 Lloyds sent Mr W a new debit card, as his current one was due to expire. 
However, this was returned undelivered. Mr W has acknowledged that he hadnt updated his 
address with the bank.
At the beginning of February 2021 Mr W called to update his address and order a new card. 
Lloyds say this wasnt possible as Mr W didnt have extra security set up for his account, 
mainly as he didnt use online banking. Lloyds say they advised Mr W that he could do it in 
branch or in writing and that they sent him a change of address form. Mr W says he told 
Lloyds that he couldnt go into the branch as he was isolating at the time due to the ongoing 
Covid-19 pandemic and family members being unwell. He says he told Lloyds that he was in 
desperate need of his funds and that the account was his only way of accessing his sole 
income. 
Mr W called Lloyds again in the middle of February 2021 and told them he still hadnt 
received the change of address form. He made a complaint with the bank, who say they told 
Mr W he could send a request in writing. 
Lloyds say they received this a few days later but that it couldnt be accepted as the 
signature was different to the one they had on record. Mr W has acknowledged that his 
signature does change. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint and said that they had done all they could to help Mr W 
access his funds. However, they offered him £30 for putting a wrong phone number down at 
one point following a conversation with Mr W. In May 2021, Mr W was finally able to change 
his address and order a new card. He says he did this in branch with the help of his sister. 
Mr W rejected Lloyds offer of £30 and brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator initially thought it was one we should uphold. However, 
after Lloyds responded with some more information, he changed his opinion on the case. He 
said that Lloyds had done enough by offering emergency cash early on and explaining that 
Mr W could change his address by sending a letter or visiting branch. When the letter from 
Mr W was rejected, he didnt think it was reasonable that Mr W didnt visit the branch to get 
the change actioned, when it was made clear that this was the only remaining option. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so the case has been passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to say that I do sympathise with Mr Ws position. He was left without 
access to his funds at a difficult time and through his personal circumstances and no fault of 
his own, he wasnt able to change his address and order a new card easily and efficiently. 
However, I am deciding if I think Lloyds did enough to support Mr W, despite the unfortunate 
circumstances he found himself in and I think they did. The issue at hand for Mr W was that 
he couldnt access his funds and sole source of income through his Lloyds current account. 
Lloyds have shown that they did offer Mr W emergency cash paid to a friend or family 
member at the beginning of February 2021, but Mr W declined. I appreciate that Mr W said it 
wasnt possible and that he didnt have anyone with account access, but an emergency 
payment to a family member was done later. 
Lloyds have said that they couldnt offer Mr W a change of address over the phone as he 
didnt have the necessary security set up for them to verify who they were talking to. I think 
this is reasonable but would expect them to instead offer a fair alternative. Lloyds have said 
they made it clear to Mr W from the beginning of February 2021 that it would have to be in 
writing or through a branch visit. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Mr W 
understandably wanted to do it in writing. Unfortunately, when the request was received by 
Lloyds this wasnt accepted due to the signature not matching the one they had on record. 
Whilst this would have been very frustrating for Mr W, I think Lloyds also acted fairly here. 
Lloyds have said this left no option for Mr W to change his address and request a 
replacement card other than to visit his local branch. Whilst I understand Mr W might have 
been hesitant to do this due to circumstances at the time and wasnt even able to do this due 
to isolating for some time in February, he did eventually visit a branch and sort this issue out 
in May 2021. I havent seen enough to conclude that Mr W couldnt have done this sooner 
and I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this and his time without a card. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr W. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this complaint. I think they offered all 
reasonable options available to Mr W and they were fair in offering for him to write to them 
and to arrange an emergency cash payment, at the earliest opportunity. 
Lloyds did offer Mr W £30 for a separate issue of recording an incorrect telephone number 
for him. If on further reflection, Mr W wishes to accept Lloyds offer of redress, he should 
contact the business directly. My decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve Mr Ws 
dispute with Lloyds  can do for him.
My final decisionMy final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman