DRN-4293194
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about PCF Bank Limiteds decision to lend to him.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with PCF to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £4,000 and borrowed £10,000 over a 48-month term, 
with monthly repayments of £286.84. Mr B said he had to surrender the car in February 2020 
because he found the payments unaffordable. He says that at the time PCF lent to him hed 
been declined by other lenders. And he says the high interest rate offered to him by PCF 
reflected his below-average credit worthiness. Mr B says PCF didnt do enough to check his 
income and ability to repay the loan. So he thinks PCF shouldnt have lent to him and should 
put him in the position hed have been in if they hadnt. 
Mr B complained to PCF but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd completed 
detailed checks before deciding to lend to Mr B  checking his monthly income, credit 
commitments and expected living costs. PCF said the income on the three bank statements 
theyd looked at significantly exceeded the annual income Mr B had declared on his 
application. They explained theyd used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate 
Mr Bs monthly expenditure. Looking at Mr Bs credit file, PCF said Mr B had recently settled 
a similar hire purchase agreement on which hed not missed a payment over 52 months. 
And theyd seen Mr B paid his mortgage on time and maintained his other credit 
commitments. So, they said, theyd concluded the finance agreement was arranged 
responsibly and was affordable at the time based on Mr Bs income and credit history.
Mr B was unhappy with PCFs reply so he came to our service. He said he was 
self-employed and the amounts showing in his bank statements as income were cash 
deposits rather than payroll. Mr B thought PCF should have checked his company accounts. 
He added that PCF had seen his bank statements which showed no surplus at the end of 
each month. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and said he thought the checks PCF 
had carried out were proportionate. He then looked at what the evidence PCF had gathered 
showed and estimated Mr Bs disposable income by looking at Mr Bs bank statements. Our 
investigator concluded there werent any indicators that Mr B couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments under the conditional sale agreement and therefore that PCF hadnt acted 
unfairly in approving the finance.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator and asked for a decision. In doing so, he said his 
income was variable over the year and PCF should have checked his previous Self 
Assessment tax returns. He said he had a large amount of total debt at around £305,000 at 
the time of the application, including a mortgage, three credit cards, and a significant 
personal loan. And he said he was regularly using both his arranged and unarranged 
overdraft facility as well as occasionally being charged for unpaid direct debits.
Mr B added that his minimum credit card payments at the time averaged £841 per month. 
And he said he was paying £1,000 a month to his partners mother to repay a loan and 
making multiple payments to his partner for childcare and other expenses. He said PCF 
should have looked at his actual outgoings rather than using ONS figures. And that if theyd 
looked at his bank statements properly theyd have seen he was deep in his overdraft 
despite his income being higher than usual during the months in question. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2023. In that provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did PCF carry out proportionate checks?
PCFs initial assessment had a red flag in relation to Mr Bs current account turnover so 
they asked for three months of bank statements. Looking at Mr Bs bank statements, its 
clear that his income was erratic and variable. And most of it was in cash deposits. 
While the average for the three months was around £9,000 per month, significantly 
higher than the £78,000 Mr B had told them, Im inclined to say the erratic nature of Mr 
Bs income suggests PCF should have done more to check what a sustainable figure for 
his income would be.
PCF also looked at Mr Bs credit file and his companys credit file. Looking at his 
companys credit file, there are no significant concerns, although the risk rating 
increased from low risk to moderate risk at the beginning of August 2018. Mr Bs 
individual credit file showed he had seven active lines of credit, with no defaults or late 
payments. Although it showed Mr Bs total credit balance was around £305,000, he had 
a mortgage so I can see why this amount wouldnt have been a concern. 
PCF then estimated Mr Bs disposable income using the salary Mr B had given them 
and expenditure data from the ONS. I cant see that Mr B gave PCF any reason to think 
his spending might not be in line with national averages. And his credit history didnt 
contain any indicators that Mr B might be having financial difficulties. So I can 
understand why PCF didnt think it was unreasonable to use the ONS data.
However, PCF had a copy of Mr Bs bank statements  and they dont appear to have 
considered what those statements showed. CONC 5.2.1R(2)(a) says a firm must take 
into account in its assessment the information of which its aware. The statements show 
Mr B repeatedly dipping into his overdraft and paying fees and interest to do so. Im 
inclined to say this should also have led PCF to do more detailed checks.
What would PCF have found?
A proportionate check would have involved PCF finding out more about Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
To determine what PCF would have found if theyd done more checks, Ive looked at Mr 
Bs tax returns for the tax years 2016/17 and 2017/18 to calculate Mr Bs average net 
monthly income. And Ive had a closer look at Mr Bs bank statements to determine his 
regular financial commitments and non-discretionary expenditure. 
Mr Bs tax return for the tax year 2016/17 shows income of £64,100 and tax due of 
£8,630. For 2017/18 it shows income of £64,400 and tax of £8,227. So Mr Bs net monthly income over the course of the two years preceding the lending was around 
£4,650 on average.
To estimate Mr Bs expenditure, Ive looked the last three months bank statements 
before the lending decision. On average, these show monthly mortgage payments of 
around £1,187, council tax of £260, and gas and electricity of £162. On average he 
spent around £150 per month on petrol and £450 per month on groceries. On top of this, 
he had regular direct debits including TV, phones, gym membership and insurance 
totalling around £350 per month.
Mr B was also making a weekly payment of £250 to an individual, and significant ad-hoc 
payments to another individual which averaged around £1,300 per month. When we 
asked, he told us that the £250 per week (£1,000 per month) was to repay a loan from 
his partners mother and the £1,300 was payments to his partner for childcare and some 
other expenses.
On top of this, Mr B was making payments of around £1,300 against a loan and his 
credit cards. So his average non-discretionary monthly expenditure was around £6,160. 
This is significantly higher than his income and so wouldnt have allowed Mr B to make 
repayments on this agreement without having to borrow further or suffer adverse 
financial consequences. So Im inclined to say PCF shouldnt have lent to Mr B.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision, but PCF didnt. In summary, they said:
The non-reportable credit arrangements dont appear to have impacted Mr Bs ability 
to service a hire purchase agreement for twice the instalment amount as PCFs. 
Mr Bs 2016/17 income was lower than 2017/18 and his credit commitments 
decreased over the same time frame so he was in a net-improved situation at the 
time of the loan.
The consumer indebtedness index (CII) was in a lower range indicating that Mr B 
wasnt over-indebted and wouldnt struggle with the commitment.
The use of an approved overdraft, working within the limit isnt an indicator that 
someone is in a distressed situation. If there were fees for bounced items then theyd 
take a different view.
When signing the agreement, Mr B acknowledged a statement confirming he wasnt 
aware of any changes to his financial circumstances, and that on this basis he 
deemed the loan affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that PCF should have done more checks because they 
could see from Mr Bs bank statements that he was repeatedly dipping into his overdraft and 
paying fees and interest to do so. I disagree with PCFs view that using an overdraft within 
the assigned limit doesnt suggest a consumer has issues. An overdraft is generally an 
expensive form of credit and therefore an indicator that a consumer may be in financial 
difficulties. In addition, I note the April statement, which PCF had a copy of, included charges 
for unarranged overdraft and for an unpaid transaction. 
I appreciate PCFs comments about the CII  but this understandably didnt take into 
account the loan arrangements he had with individuals. I dont have details of these loan arrangements so its difficult to say whether Mr Bs net situation was indeed better in 
2017/18 than in 2016/17. Similarly, while PCF says these non-reportable arrangements dont 
appear to have impacted Mr Bs ability to service a previous hire purchase agreement, its 
not clear how this links in with the personal loan arrangements. Im not persuaded by these 
comments that the checks were proportionate. I maintain that PCF should have done more 
checks.
Finally, PCF says Mr B deemed the loan affordable when signing the agreement -  but this 
confirmation doesnt carry any weight when looking at the requirements of CONC.
In my provisional decision I found that Mr Bs sustainable income was less than his non-
discretionary expenditure at the time of the loan. PCFs comments dont change that finding. 
So Im satisfied PCF shouldnt have lent to Mr B.
Putting things right
As I dont think PCF should have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. In my provisional decision I 
explained how I thought PCF should put things right. Neither party objected to that, so the 
paragraphs that follow are unchanged from my provisional decision.
Mr B had the use of the car for around 18 months so I think its fair he pays for that use. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest that was charged under 
the agreement, the usage Mr B likely had of the car and what his costs to stay mobile might 
have been had he not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr B 
should pay is £290 for every month he had use of the car. So I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for PCF to retain £5,220. 
To settle Mr Bs complaint, PCF should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless, as seems the case, this has 
already been done. 
Refund all the payments Mr B has made (including the deposit), less £5,220 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Mr B has paid more than the fair usage figure, PCF should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Mr B has paid less than the fair usage figure, PCF should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once PCF has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the agreement.
If PCF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mr B a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr B can reclaim that 
amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. PCF Bank Limited need to take the 
steps Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman