DRN-1702679
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited issued a default on his credit card account, even though 
he made payments in line with a plan they had agreed. He believes hes been treated 
unfairly. 
What happened
Mr C had an MBNA credit card but, by the end of 2018, was having difficulty making 
payments. In October 2018 MBNA wrote to him to say that he would no longer be able to 
make new transactions. In December it wrote again to say that the account had been in 
arrears for three consecutive statement periods. 
Mr C contacted MBNA with an offer to make payments of £10 a month. MBNA wrote at the 
end of December 2019 to say that he could make that payment for now and that it would 
waive interest and charges. The letter also said that the payment wouldnt be enough to 
prevent MBNA from registering a default and that the amount shown on Mr Cs monthly 
statement would continue to be due. If Mr C didnt make those payments, MBNA might take 
further action. 
Mr C made some payments, but of less than the amounts due on his monthly statements. 
On 24 February 2019 MBNA sent a default notice, requiring payment of £57 arrears by 14 
March. It wrote again on 14 March requesting full payment of just under £470, which 
included £84 arrears. Mr C said he hadnt received the February letter. He says too that he 
recalls making a phone call and being told that a payment of £84 would be enough to 
prevent a default. He made a payment of £84 which was credited to his account on 20 
March. 
MBNA defaulted Mr Cs account in April 2019. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to this service. He said hed kept to the 
agreed payment plan and been open with MBNA about his financial situation. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but didnt recommend that MBNA take any 
further steps to put things right. Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked 
that an ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he has been open with MBNA about the difficulties he found himself in and 
feels its unfair that his account has been defaulted. I accept that he has been honest with 
MBNA and tried to avoid a default; that however isnt a good reason to require MBNA to 
remove it. 
I note that MBNAs letter accepting Mr Cs offer to pay £10 a month expressly said that the 
arrangement was a temporary one and that he would still need to make the full monthly 
payments in order to avoid a default. He wasnt able to do so.
Mr C says he didnt receive the default notice sent in February 2019. Its possible it wasnt 
delivered or that Mr C overlooked it. I think it likely that it was delivered safely, and I note that 
it was properly addressed. But in any event, Mr would have known from his account 
statements what was due and what his arrears were. Hes said too that he was having 
difficulty making payments.   
Mr C says as well that he was told on or about 18 March that a payment of £84 would be 
enough to avoid a default and that he made a payment of that amount as a result. I note 
though that this sum represented the arrears due in the demand letter of 14 March, and I 
think it likely that this has caused some confusion. That payment was however made after 
the letter demanding full payment; it reduced the amount Mr C owed but couldnt by that 
point prevent the default. 
Mr C is concerned that having a default registered will affect his ability to borrow. That may 
be the case, but MBNA is obliged to record information fully and accurately. Mr C 
acknowledges that he was having difficulty making payments, and so it seems fair that his 
records should reflect that.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require MBNA Limited to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman