DRN-1549087
 
The complaint
Mr O complained that hed lost money that he was trying to pay into an ATM owned by  
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr O told us that he tried to pay in a total of £3,500 in cash, early in the morning into 
Santanders ATMs, but only £2,400 was accepted. He said he wanted Santander to pay him 
back the money hed lost. 
Santander checked the ATMs. It said hed paid £2,485 into one machine in three separate 
deposits. That machine balanced, and there were no error codes or cash surpluses. It 
checked a second machine, which Mr O also used, and said it was over by £20. It credited 
Mr Os account with this. It didnt think hed lost £1,000. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She explored each of the 
options  Mr O took the money when the ATM returned it, someone else took the money 
when the ATM returned it, or a member of staff took the money when the ATM was opened 
and checked. She thought it was more likely that Mr O had the money. Mr O wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr O often pays in sums of money using an ATM. And he did have cash on him that 
morning, to pay in. Unfortunately, theres no clear evidence showing how much cash he had.
Our investigator set out for Mr O that there was only £20 that wasnt accounted for in the 
ATM he used. Im satisfied that Santander has carried out a thorough investigation, and 
there arent any other notes that arent accounted for. So Mr Os money didnt end up where 
rejected notes are kept, or otherwise get lost inside the machine. 
I think that our investigator was right, that if Mr O paid this money in, then someone must 
have it. And I think that if Mr O did pay in the amount he said, then she was right to say the 
options were either that someone (either Mr O or another person) had taken most of the 
money Mr O paid in when it was returned by the ATM. Or a member of staff took it when the 
ATM was checked. 
I think its unlikely someone else outside the bank took money that was returned. Mr O was 
still there at the time, and I think he wouldve noticed this. 
I also think its unlikely that someone in the bank took the money out of the ATM. I think our 
investigator was right to say that this person would run a high risk of being caught.  
Mr O told us that the money was returned, but then the machine took it back. Our 
investigator thought it was most likely that someone had grabbed the money and just missed 
one £20 note, which was then paid back into the ATM. Having considered the evidence, I 
think thats the most likely explanation for whats gone wrong here. For the reasons Ive set 
out above, I think its most likely that this was Mr O. And that, in turn, means that I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman