DRN-4462378
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank plc input incorrect data to her credit reference in respect of 
her credit card and current account and wouldnt correct this when brought to its attention.
What happened
Mrs Bs TSB credit card and current account were accepted as part of a debt arrangement 
scheme (the scheme) in August 2015, but she said TSB failed to apply a default date, and 
the accounts showed in her credit file as active with six plus months late payments. She 
said other creditors applied correct default dates in 2015 and no longer showed on her credit 
file. She asked TSB to backdate the defaults to August 2015 and remove late payments, so 
all her debts were treated in line with the scheme. Mrs B settled the scheme in August 2022. 
Mrs B complained to TSB. TSB said it had confirmed Mrs Bs scheme in May 2017 after 
accepting a proposal in June 2015 which stated it would start in August 2015. TSB said it 
couldnt explain why it hadnt taken its usual actions and both her accounts remained open. 
It said it hadnt received anything from the Insolvency Practitioner to confirm the schemes 
completion in August 2022 to enable the remaining balances to be written off, but in the 
meantime it would ensure the correct information was put on her credit file. 
TSB said with the scheme completion certificate it would record Mrs Bs accounts as partially 
settled in accordance with the scheme. It said this can take up to eight weeks to show on her 
credit file. TSB apologised for its poor service had caused and paid her £450 compensation. 
TSB invited Mrs B to submit any expenses she had incurred in dealing with the issue. 
Mrs B said this issue caused her considerable distress and prevented her applying for credit. 
She said shes paid monthly charges to monitor her credit file, plus phone costs. As Mrs B 
wasnt happy with TSBs response she referred her complaint to our service. Mrs B wants an 
apology from TSB for breaking promises to put the error right and for claiming that she was 
told it could take up to nine months when she wasnt informed of this. 
Our investigator initially said the £450 compensation from TSB was fair, but recommended it 
pay a further £100 as it hadnt said how long it would take to update records and the delays 
caused Mrs B further problems. He said there are free credit reference reports available.  
TSB disagreed as it couldnt see how Mrs B not being informed of the time it may take to 
amend a credit file was relevant when the write off didnt take this long. It said confirmation 
of completion was received on 21 September, and the scheme discharge was completed on 
15 November 2022. TSB said its letter to Mrs B confirmed that her credit file had already 
been amended and so by 15 November 2022 the credit file and scheme were correct.
The investigator looked again and said there was no evidence TSB told her it could take nine 
months to amend her credit file and so it shouldnt have to pay any more. He said evidence 
showed that the account was partially settled in August 2022 and TSB completed the 
discharge on 15 November 2022, whereas Mrs Bs credit issue was in February 2023. 
The investigator said the credit reference agency website explains the scheme will show for 
a minimum of six years and depends on the start time - Mrs Bs completed in August 2022 
and although the default wont show as this is over six years ago, the file shows shes been 
in a plan until recently as TSB has to report each payment and they remain for six years.
Mrs B still didnt feel her credit record had been corrected and requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint. She thought the TSB accounts should have been marked as defaulted 
accounts but instead they were showing as live accounts. She said had TSB investigated 
without delay it would have been identified that the accounts had actually defaulted and if 
that had been corrected a backdated default date would have been applied from 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2015, Mrs Bs indebted accounts were accepted as part of a debt arrangement 
scheme. However, despite her request TSB failed to include her credit card and current 
account in the arrangement. This meant that long after the scheme was under way, both 
accounts were described as active. Mrs B complained about this and said her credit file 
showed her TSB accounts with six months late payments. 
TSB has apologised to Mrs B for its error in not recording her accounts as part of the debt 
scheme in 2015, or with the Insolvency Practitioner. I am pleased for Mrs B that she 
completed the debt scheme last year. I can see that Mrs B believes that as her accounts 
werent shown as defaulted they were retained as live and therefore retained as adverse 
records for longer than necessary. And she thinks TSB has still not corrected her credit file. 
I have looked at the credit reference information held about Mrs B. She says the accounts 
are only marked as settled and still show late payments as the correct default date hasnt 
been applied. In accordance with the debt scheme, TSB doesn't record accounts as in 
default, as it explained in its call with her. However, from what I have seen TSB has reported 
Mrs Bs data correctly to the credit reference agencies and changed the original information 
to show her accounts were in the debt scheme from 2015.  
The credit reference information shows that TSB has now correctly reported Mrs Bs 
accounts as in debt scheme from 2015, discharged in 2022 as partially settled. In common 
with normal practice, eevidence of the debt scheme remains on her credit file for a minimum 
of six years and on average for around six and a half years. 
TSB is correct to say that it doesnt have control over how this is recorded by the credit 
reference agencies. Given that a default can take over six years to be removed from credit 
records, I dont think the classification would have made a difference. However, I hope Mrs B 
has now seen the corrected credit reference report that shows her accounts properly 
recorded. In summary, TSB has sent information to all of the credit reference agencies to 
advise that Mrs Bs debt scheme ran from 2015, until August 2022. Im satisfied TSB has 
recorded Mrs Bs credit information accurately.  
Mrs B has told us she had made numerous additional follow up calls and incurred further 
costs. TSB has invited her to submit evidence of additional costs incurred as a direct 
consequence of its error and I think thats the best approach to resolving this issue. In terms 
of Mrs B being declined a contract due to poor credit, we havent seen any evidence of this 
within the relevant period and so I cant require TSB to take any action. 
I can see from the call records that Mrs B was becoming increasingly frustrated at the slow 
pace of TSBs remediation of her credit reference. However, TSB did amend Mrs Bs credit 
records and I think the £450 compensation it has paid her adequately reflects the impact of 
its errors and delay and the consequential distress and inconvenience its poor service has 
caused her. I agree with the investigator that all of the issues brought by Mrs B as part of her complaint 
were covered in the initial complaint in respect of which TSB paid her £450 compensation. I 
think this award is fair and is consistent with awards we have seen in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman