DRN-2564016
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Ltd (PL) -then trading as AMP-gave him 
unsuitable advice when they recommended him to start a personal pension policy to contract 
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
What happened
Mr W was advised to contract out of SERPS through a protected rights policy in January 
1989 (backdated to 1987) which was designed to accept National Insurance rebates. At the 
time of the advice the government also offered a 2% incentive for people to contract out. 
The point of sale documents show Mr W was 33 at the time and was earning £20,000 per 
year. It was recorded that Mr W was not in contracted-out employment. A proposal form 
stated that a full analysis of Mr Ws situation would be completed a few months later, 
however PL hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show whether this happened and if 
so what was discussed. 
Mr W, through his representative (R), complained that unsuitable advice had been given. 
R said Mr W would have been better off if he had not contracted out. He shouldnt have been 
exposed to the risk of his pension being linked to the stock market and not being protected 
from inflation. He also thought being invested in a managed fund meant there was a lack of 
diversification.
PL rejected Mr Ws complaint and so it was referred to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and he didnt agree with Rs arguments. He thought given Mr Ws 
age, term to retirement and salary at the time it wasnt unreasonable to recommend 
contracting out of SERPS. He also thought the managed fund provided sufficient 
diversification. 
However, the investigator upheld the complaint for different reasons. He explained that in 
order to give suitable advice, PL should have explored whether Mr W was eligible to join an 
occupational scheme and if so, recommended him to consider doing this instead. Whilst the 
paperwork notes that Mr W wasnt in contracted-out employment, theres no evidence that 
questions about the availability of an occupational scheme and Mr Ws eligibility to join it 
were discussed.
Mr W had told us in 1989 he was working for United Engineering Steels (which became part 
of British Steel). The investigator contacted the pension administrators who confirmed that 
Mr W had not been a member of their occupational pension in 1989. He had stopped being a 
member in 1985 and re-joined in 2001. Mr W explained that he had been made redundant 
from British Steel in 1985 and joined the pension scheme again in 2001 when he started to 
work for another company which was part of British Steel. The administrator also provided 
membership documents about the pension scheme in 1989 which showed that Mr W would 
have been eligible to join United Engineering Steels occupational pension in 1989.
The investigator thought that if PL had explored this option with Mr W -as they should have- 
he likely would have joined his occupational pension in 1989. In his view PL should 
compensate Mr W for the benefits he lost out on.
PL disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions the investigator has reached. I appreciate Mr 
W didnt specifically complain about not being advised to join his occupational pension. 
However, he complained about the unsuitability of the advice he was given and as a service 
we have an inquisitorial remit to look beyond the strict wording of a complaint. When 
considering the suitability of advice we tend to look at whether it was suitable generally and 
not simply restrict our investigation to specific points being raised.
I agree with PL and the investigator that generally contracting-out wasnt necessarily 
unsuitable for Mr W given his circumstances. And if he hadnt been eligible for an 
occupational pension at the time or if he had been a member of a non-contracted out 
pension scheme, I wouldnt have upheld this complaint.
However, when advising on whether a personal pension policy was suitable, PL needed to 
know their client and their circumstances and consider any obvious alternatives -like an 
occupational pension-and inform Mr W about this. This was made clear by the regulator 
during the Pensions Review which covered the period in which Mr Ws advice took place and 
included cases where personal pension advice had been given to customers who could have 
joined an occupational scheme. PL sent a screenshot which showed a SERPS review in 
2003 which came out as no loss. However, the limited details available suggest the 
possible joining of Mr Ws occupational scheme was not considered at that point.
Theres no evidence that Mr Ws circumstances were properly discussed at the time of the 
advice. PL had noted Mr W wasnt in contracted out employment. However, based on the 
evidence provided PL didnt explore whether Mr Ws employer offered an occupational 
scheme and whether he was eligible to join it. 
Mr W gave this service a plausible account of his employment history and I have no reason 
to doubt his statement that he used to work for United Engineering Steels years in 1989. And 
based on the information provided by the pension administrator, Im satisfied Mr W would 
have been eligible to join their occupational pension at the time. PL shouldve discussed this 
with Mr W at the time of the advice and advised him to consider joining his occupational 
scheme instead as he could benefit from employers contributions. 
Of course I cant say for certain what Mr W would have done at this point. However, I dont 
see any reason why Mr W wouldnt have followed the recommendation of a professional 
adviser. So, on balance, I think he likely would have joined his employers pension in 1989 
for the period he was employed there (according to Mr W until 1994/1995) and had access 
to the scheme. Due to PLs failings here, he missed out on the occupational pension benefits 
he could have accrued during this time.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
joined United Engineering Steels occupational scheme in 1989. PL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
PL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of not joining the occupational scheme on Mr Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
PL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PL to 
pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to calculate and pay 
Mr W the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman