DRN-2834840
The complaint
Mr P complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
TFS approved Mr P for a £7,500 loan in September 2014. The term of the loan was 48 
months; with repayments of approximately £290.
Mr P says the loan was irresponsibly lent to him by TFS as it was unaffordable to him. He 
says had TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve realised the loan 
was unaffordable and not lent. Mr P says at the time of applying for the loan he was 
experiencing financial hardship; and was spending a significant amount of money gambling.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. In coming to this opinion they said:
TFS did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. This was because the 
evidence Mr P provided to support his income showed a significant proportion was 
made up by overtime payments. Our investigator also felt the checks completed by 
TFS showed Mr P had a high level of existing debt; and his credit file had shown 
negative markers. Our investigators opinion was that TFS needed to do more to 
verify Mr Ps income and outgoings as a result;
Had TFS completed further checks it wouldve seen the loan was likely unaffordable 
to Mr P. This was because his outgoings exceeded his income. In coming to this 
conclusion the investigator relied on bank statements Mr P had provided. These 
demonstrated Mr P was spending a substantial amount of money on online gambling 
websites. And as such his outgoings were higher than that which he declared. This 
therefore made the loan unaffordable to Mr P.
TFS disagreed with the assessment. It maintained it had completed proportionate checks. 
These checks did not demonstrate Mr Ps outgoings (including gambling) exceeded his 
income. TFS also maintained it was entitled to rely on the information which Mr P had 
presented. As these checks and this information demonstrated the loan was affordable, TFS 
says it made a fair decision to lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr P. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ps ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
The purpose of Mr Ps loan was listed as debt consolidation and contribution towards a new 
car. TFS says it completed proportionate checks. It says it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment for Mr P; as well as searching his credit file. It also asked Mr P to 
provide a payslip. Mr P also provided a transaction history. 
Mr Ps credit file showed that he had around £10,500 in existing total debt. This was made 
up via a number of different products including credit cards and unsecured loans. Importantly 
these lines of credit had all been opened relatively recently. There was also a history of 
borrowing via payday lenders which had some negative markers on them. The credit file also 
showed Mr P had a current account that had had issues with an overdraft which had been 
closed at the beginning of 2014. There was also a default registered around 12 months prior 
to this loan application for a different product.
TFS says these checks did not show any concerns over lending to Mr P; and that Mr P 
would be able to afford the loan (once consolidation of an existing loan was complete).
Ive considered TFS arguments but disagree that proportionate checks were completed in 
this instance. Whilst it has asked for some information to verify Mr Ps application; Im not 
persuaded this was sufficient to enable it to make a fair lending decision. As has been 
explained above Mr P provided a transaction history rather than bank statements. Whilst 
these transaction histories do provide some information; they are clearly not as detailed as 
bank statements. And Im persuaded; considering the information on Mr Ps credit file  TFS 
shouldve obtained more information to verify further Mr Ps outgoings. 
As TFS did not do this; Im not satisfied proportionate checks were completed in this 
instance.
Mr P has provided our service with full copies of his bank statements from various current 
accounts. These cover the period leading up to and after the application for this loan. And 
Ive used these (as well as the rest of the information on file); to decide what further checks 
wouldve shown had TFS completed proportionate checks.
The statements show that Mr Ps outgoings were significantly higher than those which he 
declared to TFS. The majority of this increase in outgoings is compiled of Mr Ps online 
gambling transactions. There are multiple transactions for large sums of money; including 
but not limited to transactions amounting to over £100 on a daily basis. Looking through the 
statements it is clear Mr P is conducting multiple transactions on a very regular basis; and as 
such Im satisfied that TFS oughtve taken these into account when deciding if Mr P could 
afford the repayments for this loan.
Due to the high volume of online gambling transactions, the statements show that Mr Ps 
disposable income was significantly less than TFS had calculated. The statements show Mr 
P is running a very tight, if not negative budget on a monthly basis. And whilst TFS is entitled to rely on the fact Mr P says he was consolidating some of his debt; Im not persuaded these 
savings were sufficient to make the loan affordable to him. As TFS is aware, it needs to 
ensure any lending is sustainable to the borrower; and that includes not incurring further 
hardship or having to borrow to support an applicants income. Looking through the 
statements Im satisfied that Mr Ps finances were such that he could not sustainably afford 
the repayments. 
As such Im satisfied TFS acted unfairly in approving this loan to Mr P. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right; I require TFS Loans Limited to:
Add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr P made should be deducted from this amount; as well as 
any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr P.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
TFS Loans Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps 
credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman