DRN-4402315
The complaint
Ms O complains that BeaconIFA Limited (Beacon) provided her with poor advice in respect 
of contributions to a personal pension plan (PPP) resulting in her incurring a tax charge. She 
would like the tax charge refunded.
What happened
Ms O was a shareholder and Company Secretary in a business (OS), which was majority 
owned by her partner, Mr W. She also had a separate employment and was a member of 
that employers occupational pension scheme. OS had significant cash reserves which Ms O 
and Mr W sought advice on how best to extract from the business. Beacon undertook 
calculations and advised that pension contributions could be paid by OS for both Ms O and 
Mr W, which would extract funds tax efficiently from the business. It calculated how much 
could be paid taking into account unused pension allowances and advised a contribution of 
£56,900 could be paid for Ms O. A PPP was set up and the contribution was paid in March 
2021. 
Beacon hasnt disputed it made an error in the calculations. It understated the contributions 
being made to Ms Os occupational scheme through her other employment. This meant 
£29,374.82 of the contribution to the PPP exceeded her available pension allowances. This 
has tax consequences for the person receiving the contribution, so Ms O. HMRC 
subsequently raised an annual allowance tax charge of £11,749.93, plus interest of £703.10. 
The tax liability was paid by Mr T on 28 January 2023, it isnt clear when the interest owed 
was settled. 
Ms O complained to Beacon asking it to re-imburse the tax costs. It apologised for not telling 
Ms O that it didnt provide tax advice and that she should have had the calculations checked 
elsewhere. But it said Ms O was still better off due to having extra funds in her pension as 
there would have been tax on the funds had they been taken as salary or dividends. 
However, it offered her an ex-gratia payment of £1,500, which she rejected. Beacon then 
increased the offer to £2,250. 
Ms O referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said she could only consider the impact on the unsuitable advice on Ms O, 
not on Mr W or OS. And it did appear that Ms O had benefitted by having an additional sum 
in her pension which might outweigh the tax charge. And as Ms O hadnt paid the tax 
herself, she hadnt suffered a financial loss. But she said given the involvement of both Mr W 
and OS it might be appropriate if complaints were made by them.
Ms O didnt agree and her accountant, who also acts for Mr W and OS, submitted a detailed 
response on her behalf. The accountant said:
1. Both Ms O and Mr W were shareholders in OS. And that Beacon had been 
instructed to advise on the most tax efficient manner of extracting excess capital 
from the family-owned business (OS). And that allocation of this capital referred to 
by Beacon between Ms O and Mr W was only notional and was arrived at to 
maximise the possible pension contributions that Beacon (incorrectly) thought could 
be paid. As the funds were only notionally allocated, these didnt have to be used for 
Ms O, as Beacon had tried to argue.    
2. Beacon had conceded its error, and the main purpose of seeking its advice was to 
extract the excess capital tax efficiently, so it should be held responsible for the tax 
consequences of the advice.
3. In respect of the loss there were two distinct aspects, which were disputed. First in 
respect of the tax charge of £11,749.93. Beacon claimed that if the pension 
contribution hadnt been paid the same amount would have been taken as either 
dividend or salary and also subject to tax, meaning the actual tax charge incurred 
was not a loss. The accountant said this wasnt the case as OS could have simply 
retained the capital concerned to be withdrawn at a later date by more tax efficient 
means, such as paying pension contributions in future tax years. 
And second, Beacon had acknowledged there would be a tax liability on Ms O 
withdrawing funds from the pension in future, which it put at £4,406.22 using various 
assumptions. Describing this as a future liability which may be offset by investment 
growth and possible IHT relief in the future. But this wasnt certain to be the case.
4. That Ms O hadnt benefited financially from the excess contribution given the 
alternative set out in point 3 above, meaning the additional tax charge incurred was 
unnecessary.
5. That Mr W paying Ms Os tax charge rather than her personally was irrelevant, 
neither had expected the tax charge and the fact that Mr W paid it merely confirmed 
the interlinked nature of their finances.    
Our investigator said having considered the accountants comments, she appreciated that 
whilst Ms O, Mr W and OS were interlinked and involved with the complaint, she could only 
consider the impact the advice had on Ms O and her pension, and she didnt think there was 
a loss. 
As Ms O doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 15 September 2023, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
Beacon accepts it made an error. Im not convinced by the arguments it has made that Ms O 
hasnt suffered a loss. Ms O and her accountant have made persuasive arguments to the 
contrary. And I agree there is a loss and I think Beacon was responsible for it. 
I think it is clear that Beacon was advising Ms O, Mr W and OS in the whole. The suitability 
report was specifically addressed to Ms O and Mr W but also refers to OS. And the purpose 
of the exercise was how Ms O and Mr W could build pension funds through the tax efficient 
extraction of capital from OS. 
If Beacons advice to Ms O had been that OS should pay a contribution of around £29,000 
for her, which would not incur an income tax liability for her and a corporation tax deduction 
for OS, she might have deemed this attractive. If Beacon had then confirmed that HMRC 
would subsequently demand payment of a 40% annual allowance tax charge of around 
£11,750 plus £700 interest from her. Then Id expect Ms O to have questioned whether there was a benefit in making the contribution. I think she would have concluded that there 
probably wasnt, and she wouldnt have proceeded. Not least because, as the accountant 
has explained, none of the parties involved here (Ms O, Mr T or OS) were obliged to do 
anything at the time and could have deferred action until subsequent tax years.
And the exact tax charge incurred was a risk of the recommendations Beacon made. Its 
suitability report directed Ms O and Mr W to an appendix and a section headed Pension 
Contributions from Limited Companies. This explained the mechanics and tax treatment 
for OS and Ms O and Mr W and said:
You are permitted to pay as much as you like into your pension, and the 
contributions will be tax-free as long as they do not exceed the annual allowance 
(currently £40,000 per year). Carry forward allowances can be used through pension 
contributions from limited companies.
So, the tax charge was only incurred because of the error made by Beacon. As there was no 
need for Ms O to otherwise take funds from OS, she isnt in a neutral position and has 
suffered a loss. Ms O appears to have had no need for extra income or capital at that point, 
further suggesting she wouldnt have taken any other action. And its important to note that 
even if she had opted for an alternative, she would have had the use of the net amount 
immediately. Whereas when the contribution was paid it would be at least seven years 
before she could take any benefits from the PPP.
Beacon has suggested the arrangement offers inheritance tax advantages, possibly 
offsetting the actual tax cost incurred, and thats possible. But there is no evidence on the 
fact find it completed or in the suitability report that inheritance tax planning was a concern to 
Ms O, as it isnt mentioned. So, a pension contribution without tax relief is a less attractive 
investment as under current rules 75% of the future fund would be subject to income tax, 
when benefits are taken. As Beacon has said its possible that tax free growth on the 
pension investment would offset this. But this isnt certain. And in any case tax-free growth 
without a tax liability on the contribution was the basis of the recommendation made.  
Once the tax assessment was raised there was no option but to pay it. And whether Mr W 
made the payment rather than Ms O herself is immaterial as he might (and may already 
have done so) ask her to repay him this debt. Ms O and Mr W are a couple and how they 
choose to manage finances between them is their business and, I think, irrelevant to this 
complaint. The fact is they have around £12,453.03 less money available to them than they 
should have. 
I dont have details of OS tax position. But it may be that OS obtained a corporation tax 
deduction for the excess contribution it paid for Ms O. And it might be argued that this offsets 
in part the loss Ms O suffered due to the annual allowance tax charge. Ive considered this 
carefully, but I dont think this is a reasonable argument. Because, as explained above, OS 
didnt need to do anything and could, in all probability, have secured a similar corporation tax 
deduction on the excess contribution in the following year, without a tax charge for Ms O.  
So, taking everything together, at this stage I think the complaint should be upheld. And 
unless something changes my mind, I think its fair that Beacon should put Ms O back into 
the position she should have been in.
Putting things right
Ms O has suffered a loss as a result of Beacons error, being the tax and interest payable to 
HMRC on the excess contribution and its fair that she be compensated for this loss. The tax liability was £11,749.93. The interest was £703.10, but this may have increased. So, Ms O 
should confirm what interest was paid to HMRC in respect of the tax liability.
Ms O has also been deprived of the use of those funds from the date the tax liability and 
interest due were settled until the date the above redress is paid to her by Beacon. So, its 
fair that interest at 8% per year simple is added to the loss from the date the liabilities were 
paid until the date of settlement. 
Beacon should provide Ms O with a simple calculation to show how it arrived at the final 
figures.
 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Beacon deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms O how much has been taken off. Beacon should give Ms O a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms O asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
I also think Ms O has been caused distress and inconvenience by what has happened, and 
Beacon should pay her £150 compensation in respect of this.   
Response to provisional decision
Ms O accepted my provisional decision. She confirmed that the tax liability of £11,749.93 
was settled on 28 January 2023 and the interest due on the tax liability was £703.10, which 
was settled on 25 July 2023. 
Beacon didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision I think Beacons error led to the tax liability. And 
because as neither Ms O nor her business, OS, needed to take any other action, the tax 
liability is a direct loss for her. And it is fair that she be compensated for her loss.
 
Putting things right
To put Ms O back into the position she should have been in as closely as possible Beacon 
must:
Pay her compensation to reimburse the tax liability incurred of £11,749.93 paid on 28 
January 2023 and the interest charge of £703.10 paid on 25 July 2023.
Add interest at 8% per year simple to the above amounts from the dates the tax 
liabilities were paid (as noted above) until the date Beacon makes settlement. 
Provide Ms O with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the final figures.
Pay Ms O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against BeaconIFA Limited.I direct BeaconIFA Limited to pay the compensation set out above. 
If BeaconIFA Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest to be added, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It 
should also give Ms O a certificate showing this if Ms O asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman