DRN-4191287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service they received from Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited when administering their whole of life policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have had several problems with their whole of life policy. These included 
failure to collect direct debits, annual statements not provided, payments taken sooner than 
expected and customer service issues such as ignoring emails, and providing conflicting 
information. 
To put things right Sun Life has offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £300. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought the £300 was a reasonable 
payment for the upset caused by the errors. Mr and Mrs C disagreed saying they suffered 
additional angst by what happened. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs C that Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no 
discourtesy is intended. 
If I dont comment on a particular point its not because I havent considered it. Its because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
All parties agree that mistakes were made by Sun Life and the service wasnt at the level 
expected. Sun Life have offered £300 as an apology and taking into account everything that 
happened Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. 
Direct debits were missed by Sun Life and they didnt let Mr and Mrs C know about this 
when they shouldve done. This problem was acknowledged and corrected by Sun Life so 
the policy now operates as it should with the correct number of units.
There was also an issue where payments were taken earlier than expected and an annual 
statement was not provided. Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the level of customer 
service they have received being unhappy with things like emails not being answered and 
the way in which Sun Life gave them information.
Looking at everything that happened I think the £300 offer is fair. Ive thought about the 
problems that happened, the time they took to resolve, and the impact on Mr and Mrs C.  
When dealing with our Investigator Mr and Mrs C made the point that the £300 was originally 
offered for the missed payment issue and there had been more problems after that. And this 
is true. However when looking at compensation I need to consider things as a whole. And 
looking at everything that happened I think a total of £300 is fair. When something goes 
wrong consumers arent necessarily entitled to a payment for each instance. Also 
businesses are allowed to make whatever offer they like to settle a complaint and this might 
be more, or less, than this service might think is fair. We come to our own independent view, 
which is what I have done.
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay Mr and Mrs C £300. 
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has made an offer to pay £300 to 
settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
Mr and Mrs C £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman