DRN-3558520
The complaint
Mr W complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) removed a line of stock from 
his share dealing account. He wants HSDL to adjust its systems so that he has evidence he 
owns the stock.
What happened
Mr W has an execution only share dealing account with HSDL. His account included a 
holding which I will refer to as L. In 2019 L announced it would be putting itself into 
voluntary liquidation and that its shares would be delisted from the London Stock Exchange. 
HSDL continued to show the shares in Mr Ws account, with a nil value.
With effect from July 2021, the shares were no longer eligible to be held in the UK settlement 
system (CREST) and HSDL removed the shares from Mr Ws account.
Mr W says he cant keep track of developments if the shares arent showing in his account 
and he wants HSDL to alter its systems so that it can accurately reflect his shareholding.
HSDL said Mr W could use his July 2021 statement to prove he holds the shares. And that it 
would contact him with any further information about L shares, such as any payments being 
due to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought HSDL 
had given Mr W enough information for him to demonstrate that he still has the shares if a 
payment is due in the future. She didnt think HSDL needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that HSDL told him the shares would continue to 
show in his quarterly statements, but this hasnt happened. He thinks it will be confusing for 
his executors when he dies, and they may not gather all his assets for probate purposes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mr Ws strength of feeling on this matter and I can understand why he 
would like L shares to continue to be shown in his quarterly statements. But I have to be fair 
to both parties and I have to decide if HSDL has acted reasonably. In the circumstances, 
I think it has.
I say that because, not only are L shares no longer listed, but theyre no longer held in 
CREST. Im satisfied that HSDL has provided Mr W with a statement and valuation (for the 
period ending 5 July 2020) which evidences he had a holding of L shares after the last day 
of trading. And that HSDL has a record of Mr Ws holding at close of business on the last 
day of trading and will contact him with the details should there be any further payments due 
to shareholders following Ls liquidation.
My role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. I dont have 
the power to tell a business how it should develop its internal policies and operating 
systems. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, taking 
into account the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that HSDL hasnt 
acted unreasonably or unfairly, and I dont require it to include Mr Ws L shares in its 
statements, valuations or in his online account. But Im satisfied that it has an appropriate 
internal record, and will contact Mr L should there be any further developments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman