DRN-1467019
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Gladstone Brookes failed to progress his payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim, despite him sending the evidence it had requested.  
What happened
Mr B instructed Gladstone Brookes to pursue PPI claims in respect of lender L in February 
2019. Lender L was unable to locate Mr Bs details, and so Gladstone Brookes asked Mr B 
to provide further evidence of the account complained of. 
Mr B sent Gladstone Brookes an email on 13 August with details of an account number. He 
also wrote to Gladstone Brookes the next day. Gladstone Brookes wrote to Mr B on 19 
August saying that his claim had been closed as Mr B hadnt provided the requested 
evidence. The deadline for lodging a PPI claim was 29 August. 
Mr B complained to Gladstone Brookes as hed done as it had asked, and was shocked that 
Gladstone Brookes had closed his claim. Mr B asked Gladstone Brookes to compensate him 
for the value of his claim. Gladstone Brookes apologised for not adding details to its file 
when this evidence was sent in August, but didnt offer any compensation.   
Mr B remained unhappy with the response from Gladstone Brookes, and referred his 
complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for us 
to investigate. 
Gladstone Brookes informed this service that it wouldnt have been able to progress Mr Bs 
claim because it didnt deal with complaints about lender LD, which it says Mr Bs claim 
related to. The investigator found that Gladstone Brookes had acted unfairly in its handling of 
Mr Bs claim, and recommended it pay Mr B £250. This was in recognition of Mr B missing 
out on the opportunity to have his claim considered. Mr B disagreed with these findings 
saying that Gladstone Brookes should pay the value of the claim (which he says is £4,500), 
and also provided further comments about Gladstone Brookes poor handling of his claim. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr B. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators outcome for broadly the same reasons. So I wont be 
recommending further compensation. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr B but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.   Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Gladstone Brookes made errors on this case. These errors include 
failing to act on the information provided by Mr B in August 2019, and telling Mr B that his 
claim had been closed because hed not provided the requested evidence, when in fact it 
was Gladstone Brookes that hadnt followed its process correctly. 
Gladstone Brookes shouldve handled things better. Mr B did all that was requested of him 
by responding to the information request in good time before the PPI deadline. I agree that 
Gladstone Brookes shouldve correctly recorded information concerning Mr Bs account 
when this was received in August 2019. If Gladstone Brookes had done this, its likely that it 
wouldve told Mr B sooner that it doesnt deal with complaints about lender LD, and that it 
wouldnt be able to progress his claim. Mr B wouldve then had the option to contact lender 
LD directly, before the PPI deadline. 
Gladstone Brookes contacting Mr B sooner, may have changed the outcome of Mr Bs claim, 
but well never know. I can appreciate this is a question thats likely to cause Mr B frustration 
and upset for some time. So its fair that Gladstone Brookes pay compensation in recognition 
of this.
Mr B says the compensation amount should reflect the likely amount he wouldve received 
had his PPI claim been successful. I can appreciate Mr Bs frustrations. Theres now no way 
of knowing whether Mr Bs claim wouldve been successful. But I dont think it would be fair 
for Gladstone Brookes to pay compensation that reflects what may have happened. We 
wouldnt speculate on the likely outcome of any PPI claim. Any compensation amount should 
be in reflection of the trouble and upset experienced by Mr B because of this lost 
opportunity. 
Mr B feels strongly that the information hed provided about his account belonging to lender 
L is correct. He says that Gladstone Brookes is trying to avoid responsibility for the way it 
handled his claim by saying that lender LD isnt a lender it deals with. I appreciate Mr Bs 
comments, but I dont think this affects the overall outcome of this complaint. 
Whether the claim was for lender L or lender LD, the fact remains that Mr B lost out on the 
opportunity to have his claim considered because Gladstone Brookes didnt deal with the 
information received on time. This led to Mr B missing out on the opportunity to have his 
claim considered, and its the impact of this which Mr B should be compensated for. 
The investigator recommended £250 in recognition of Gladstone Brookes failure to deal with 
the claim in good time, communications with Mr B, and Mr B not knowing what the outcome 
of his PPI claim wouldve been. This amount is broadly in line with what wed say is fair in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Gladstone Brookes should pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes 
experienced as a result of missing out on the opportunity to have his PPI claim considered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Neeta KareliaOmbudsman