DRN-3628608
The complaint
Mr B complains that mishandled the voluntary termination of his vehicle finance agreement 
and imposed unfair damages charges.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr B acquired a second-hand vehicle at a cost of £15,560 funded in part by
a hire purchase agreement. After a while Mr B struggled to meet the monthly payments. He
spoke to MotoNovo in early 2020 and was intending to part exchange it for a less expensive
one. He says that he was unable to do so as the service history was missing. He contacted
MotoNovo in June and decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. The business
emailed him the necessary details.
Mr B says he posted a letter confirming he wished to VT the agreement. MotoNovo says it
did not receive this letter. It sent him a reminder of his arrears in late October and he
contacted it to ask what was happening with the VT. The VT was then processed and the car
was collected in January 2021
.
Collection and inspection were carried out by a third party acting on behalf of MotoNovo in
January 2021. Mr B says the inspector told him to challenge any charges. MotoNovo issued
an invoice for damages in early February. Mr B challenged this and MotoNovo reduced the
charge by £446.74.
Mr B remined unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by
one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld in part. He said he didnt think there
was sufficient evidence to show Mr B had sent the letter in June 2020. However, he felt
some of the damages were not chargeable and he suggested these be removed from the
invoice. He also suggested MotoNovo pay Mr B £200 compensation. This was to take
account of several failings in the handling of the matter. Mr B didnt agree and provided
further evidence about him asking for a service history not long after acquiring the vehicle.
MotoNovo agreed that the charge for the missing service history be removed.
Mr B maintained that he had sent a letter in June and that the collection agent hadnt made 
him aware of the likely damages and if he had done then Mr B would have stopped the VT. I 
issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said Mr B had let us know that he suffers from depression and this has an effect on this 
whole issue. I appreciated him sharing this with us and I took due note of the impact it may 
have had on him in reaching this decision.
June VT Letter
Mr B said he posted the letter, but MotoNovo has no record of receiving it. This service
regards non-delivery of post as outside the control of the sender so if a business issues a
default notice which the consumer says they have not received we accept it has having been
sent. In this case Mr B had provided information from his computer to show the date the
letter was typed on 15 June 2021. Given all Mr B has said I was satisfied that it was posted
the following day. It is clear he wanted to VT the agreement and I thought it unlikely he didnt
act on the information on how to do so.
I noted that in June 2020 Covid was causing us all some difficulties and I think it quite 
possible that the letter went missing within MotoNovos offices. That didnt mean it wasnt 
sent and I believed that on balance it was right that the VT should have started after receipt 
of that letter.
I noted that Mr B didnt follow his June letter up until November after he had received a
reminder about his debt. I could see why one could conclude that he showed no urgency in
ensuring the agreement was VTd, but I was also aware that this was during some Covid
lockdowns and I believed his health would also have had an impact. I didnt think this hiatus 
was sufficient to persuade me that the June letter wasnt sent.
Damages
Mr B said the vehicle was damaged when he bought it, but I saw no evidence
which allowed me to identify what state it was in back October 2018. This service relies on 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing (BVRLA) Guidelines on what is deemed to be fair 
wear and tear. However, we do make allowances for older vehicle which can have suffered 
more minor damage due to the passage of time.
I explained that I had reviewed the collection report and considered the photographs. It was 
clear that there was significant amount of damage. Our investigator has set out his thoughts 
on each item of damage and as I was in agreement I didnt repeat that detail. I said that he 
concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence to accept the dent to the roof, the dent to the rear 
load door and the dent quarter panel.
I believed the other areas of damage were chargeable and I couldnt say that these would 
have been present when the vehicle was acquired by Mr B. That meant I considered the 
invoice should be reduced by a further £1,097.89. This was after the reduction offered by 
MotoNovo of £446.74 and £300 for the service history.
VT Process
Mr B had argued that had he appreciated the level of potential charges he would have
stopped the VT process. That was not possible. Once he had formally requested to VT the
agreement it was not open to him to change his mind. I was satisfied that MotoNovo had
made clear the process and I noted that I could see it had sought to be as helpful and
supportive as it could.
The reality was that once the car was collected and a full inspection caried out Mr B became
liable for the appropriate damages charges. The car belonged to MotoNovo throughout and
the fact it was registered in Mr Bs name had no bearing on that.
Other Issues
I was aware that during the course of this matter MotoNovo had failed to respond as it had
promised and it also issued generic letters which were not appropriate to Mr Bs
circumstances. For this it offered him a total of £125 compensation which our investigator
recommended be increased to £200. I thought this was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and so it stands unamended. 
Putting things right
The charges should be reduced the VT date brought forward and compensation paid as set 
out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
reduce the charge for damages by £1,397.89 in addition to the original reduction of £446.84. 
It should also treat the VT process as having commenced on receipt of the June letter, say 
two days after posting, and so the monthly payments due also be reduced. Finally, it should 
pay Mr B £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman