DRN-3988806
The complaint
Mr F complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) failed to change the address on his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr F says following moving home he attempted to change his address details online in mid-
February 2022 but wasnt able to. Mr F says he then telephoned Capital One to arrange this, 
but he failed the security questions, given how long ago hed opened the credit card account, 
and wrote to Capital One in March 2022 to update his new address details. Mr F says he 
never received any statements from Capital One but didnt think that unusual as hed hardly 
used the credit card, but subsequently discovered his credit file had been affected and had 
been charged a late payment fee.
Mr F says Capital One shouldnt have continued to send statements to his old address as 
hed told them he no longer lived there, and he considered this a data breach. Mr F wants an 
apology from Capital One along with a financial good will gesture to recognise the time 
wasted on calls to them and the stress this has caused him. 
Capital One says it accepts it could have asked further security questions when Mr F rang in 
mid-February 2022 and apologised for that and have provided feedback to the member of 
staff involved.
Capital One says although it correctly charged the late fee in July 2022 as a payment wasnt 
received on time, it has refunded this as a gesture of goodwill along with the £18 annual 
credit card fee and it didnt report any late payment marker in July 2022. Capital One says it 
didnt have any record of receiving written instructions from Mr F changing his address in 
March 2022 as he says. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Capital One acted in Mr Fs best interests when it didnt update his address 
when he called them in February 2022 as it couldnt confirm it was talking to the correct 
person. The investigator felt Capital One had acted reasonably by not marking his credit file, 
refunding the late payment fee and annual card fee and it had put him back to the financial 
position he would have been if he had passed security back in February 2022. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr F to not be able to change his credit 
card account address because he wasnt able to answer the security questions posed at the 
time. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Capital One were at fault for not changing Mr 
Fs credit card address when he called them in February 2022, and if it has adequately 
compensated him for any mistakes it made at that time. 
Mr Fs complaint centres around the fact when he called Capital One in February 2022 it 
should have done more to help him change his address details, other than asking the 
security questions it did. Additionally, Mr F feels Capital One shouldnt have sent any 
statements to his old address following that phone call as he told them he no longer lived at 
the address on file and considers this a data breach. Mr F is looking for an apology and 
redress from Capital One as a result. 
While I understand the points Mr F raises here Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this as I have listened to the phone call he made in February 2022, and he wasnt able to 
recall what occupation he had at the time he opened the credit card account some years 
earlier. While I can see Capital One have accepted perhaps its member of staff could have 
asked further questions to help identify Mr F, without knowing what these questions might 
have been its not possible for me to say with any certainty, that Mr F would have been able 
to correctly answer these either. 
What is clear is at the end of that call, Mr F told Capital One to leave the address as it is, so 
taking everything into account here Im satisfied it wouldnt have changed Mr Fs address 
details at that stage, as it was unable to identify it was talking to him here. With that in mind I 
can see no reason why Capital One wouldnt continue to send any correspondence 
thereafter to the registered address it held on file, so I cant say there has been any data 
breach here. 
Mr F says he wrote to Capital One in March 2022 providing his new address details, but 
Capital One have no record of that nor can I see that Mr F ever questioned why he hadnt 
received any statements after this time or followed this up with them, until he raised his 
complaint in July 2022. I can only rely on the evidence provided to this service and Mr F was 
unable to provide any proof of postage- so I cant hold Capital One responsible for the 
reason why this letter wasnt received by them.  
Capital One have refunded the late payment fee and the annual card fee as a gesture of 
good will. Capital One have also confirmed to this service that no late payment marker has 
been placed on Mr Fs credit file for July 2022 and Mr F wasnt able to provide a copy of this, 
so its reasonable to conclude in all probability his credit file hasnt been affected.
With that in mind Im satisfied Mr F has been put back to the position he would have been 
prior to his address change, and I cant see that he has been financially disadvantaged in 
anyway. Its also worth saying that its not my role to penalise businesses when service 
issues arise, more that businesses like Capital One apologise for any such issues and make 
appropriate amends - on balance Im satisfied it has done that here. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Capital One.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman