DRN-4287297
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in October 
2019, using a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge 
Finance (Northridge).
What happened
Mr M acquired a used Nissan in October 2019, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
Northridge. The car was three years and four months old, with a mileage of 55,330 shown on 
the hire-purchase agreement. The cost of the car was £12,077.75, and Mr M borrowed the 
full amount over a term of 48 months, with a monthly repayment of £210.16. A final payment 
of £4,141 would be due if Mr M wanted to keep the car at the end of the term.
Mr M said that he used the car without incident before the pandemic lockdown restrictions 
started in March 2020. The car was then used for short journeys, and in December 2020 it 
passed an MOT test, at which the mileage was recorded as 61,715. So Mr M had driven just 
under 6,400 miles since he acquired the car. Records available online show that there were 
advisories on this MOT, but these related to wear on the rear tyres 
Mr M told us that shortly afterwards, in January 2021, the car broke down while he was 
driving it, and it was then towed to a nearby garage. The garage initially advised Mr M that 
the car needed a new cam sensor, which was fitted but did not solve the problem  the car 
still wouldnt start. The mechanic then told Mr M that there was no pressure in cylinder two, 
which meant engine failure. Further investigation costs were quoted as several hundred 
pounds, as the engine would need to be removed. Mr M said the garage advised him to 
contact Nissan as this should not happen in a car of that age (the car was by then about four 
and a half years old). 
It appears the car was towed back to Mr Ms home address as the garage could not keep the 
car indefinitely. Nissan then said that the car should be taken to a Nissan dealership  it was 
towed to a dealership local to Mr M, and I understand has remained there. Mr M was asked 
by Nissan to provide the cars service records, and he told us that it had been serviced in 
June 2019 and June 2020.
Mr M said the Nissan dealership advised him that the car has total engine failure, and 
requires a new engine, at a cost of several thousand pounds. He further said that the 
dealership has remained in contact with Nissan regarding the engine. Mr M also complained 
to Northridge in November 2022  he said this was at the suggestion of the dealership, it 
having said that the car was not fit for purpose. Mr M further said that Northridge told him it 
would pay for an independent report, but that it had not returned calls about who would need 
to pay upfront. 
Nissan has since agreed to meet the cost of the parts in a replacement (reconditioned) 
engine, and I have a copy of an email dated February 2023 confirming this, but it said that 
labour costs (estimated at around £2,100) would need to be met by Mr M. But Mr M said he 
doesnt have the funds to do this. 
Mr M is very unhappy about all this, and would like to reject the car and cancel the 
agreement. He told us that he has health and financial problems, so this situation is very 
difficult for him.
Northridge wrote to him in December 2022 and February 2023 to say that it hadnt been able 
to get material evidence to support his complaint, so it was not upholding it. Northridge said 
that if the engine had been of unsatisfactory quality when supplied, it could not have 
completed over 12,000 miles in over a year. 
Mr M then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into Mr Ms 
complaint, and thought it should be upheld. Northridge didnt agree and asked that it be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On balance, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because Northridge supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case the car was three years and four months old, with a mileage of 55,330 when Mr 
M acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect 
that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this 
age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. 
Mr M sent in details of the sequence of events, together with copies of estimates for the 
engine replacement. Northridge sent in copies of the hire purchase agreement, its computer 
records of Mr Ms account and various emails.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided. This is a difficult case to decide as the 
evidence is limited, and I dont have the benefit of an independent inspection report. 
Northridge said it suggested such a report, but Mr M declined it. However, I can see from 
one of the copy letters it sent in that it asked Mr M to arrange a report and said it would 
refund the cost. Northridge has not said anything about calls that Mr M said were not 
returned regarding about who would need to pay upfront. And I think Northridge could simply 
have gone ahead and arranged such a report following Mr Ms complaint.
However, in any case, Northridge has itself said that as the car has remained unused and 
SORN (registered with the DVLA as off-road) since January 2021, completing an inspection 
in August 2023 is not going to provide an accurate appraisal of the quality of goods supplied 
in October 2019.What is clear is that there is a fault with the engine, and Mr M has been unable to use the 
car since January 2021. The key issue is whether the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply. 
At the point the car broke down, it was four and a half years old, and Mr M had had it for 
about 16 months. Various figures have been noted in respect of the mileage, but I think 
some have been the result of typing errors. I dont have the mileage listed on any documents 
later than the MOT in December 2020, at which point it was 61,715. The car broke down 
shortly afterwards, so I dont think the mileage can have been a great deal higher, especially 
bearing in mind the pandemic-related restrictions at the time. So I think its reasonable to 
take the mileage as being in the region of 62,000, meaning Mr M would have driven the car 
for about 6,700 miles since he acquired it. This is a relatively low figure. 
The only information about the engine failure was the comment from the first garage about 
no pressure in cylinder two, which it said shouldnt happen in a car of this age. That does 
suggest premature failure of a component. 
The car wasnt particularly old, so I think the reasonable person would expect to use it free of 
major issues for a reasonable period of time  and wouldnt generally expect there to be a 
fault that required a full engine replacement at around 62,000 miles. It looks as though the 
car was regularly serviced, and Ive not seen anything to make me think that Mr M has 
caused or contributed to the fault occurring. And I note that the manufacturer has agreed to 
cover the cost of the parts on a replacement engine. 
In response to our investigators view that the complaint should be upheld, Northridge raised 
a number of points. I have mentioned the independent inspection report above. Otherwise, it 
said that a used car of this age and mileage is most certainly durable, and represents 
reasonable use. There is no material evidence which supports the view the issue was in any 
way inherent from supply. 
Northridge further said that if this service were minded to uphold this complaint, it would 
expect this to be based on material evidence (taking account of the timeline and mileage) 
rather than speculation about a manufacturing defect because Nissan agreed to assist Mr M. 
There are no recall notices for this vehicle recorded on the Government website. Had there 
been a manufacturing defect, which Nissan accepted liability for, guidance notes would have 
been issued to all customers. As there is nothing recorded on the Government website for 
this vehicle, it therefore follows that Nissan has not accepted liability.
Northridge went on to say that, given the overall age and mileage, many parts connected to 
the engine would have been reaching the end of their natural lifespan. There is no material 
evidence that supports the view that this was a manufacturing problem. And no one qualified 
to assess the merchantable quality of the goods determined there was a manufacturing 
problem, or the engine failure was related to the supply of the goods.
Ive considered the points Northridge has made. I accept that there is a lack of definitive 
evidence, but I have to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened, taking account of the evidence and information I do have. Northridge itself has 
said that an independent inspection report would not now provide an accurate appraisal of 
the car as at the point of supply (as I noted above, I do think Northridge could simply have 
arranged the report at an earlier stage, albeit there are differing accounts of why this didnt 
happen). So I dont think it likely that any more definitive evidence would be available. I accept that there is no recall notice registered against Mr Ms car on the Government 
website. However, looking at the relevant Government website regarding recalls, I can see 
the following:
Faults in the way vehicles, vehicle parts and accessories are designed or made have to be 
registered with the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) if they:
mean it could become unsafe in the future if its not fixed
could mean that the vehicle, part or accessory no longer meets the legal standard
Other types of general faults are not registered with DVSA.
So I dont think the lack of a recall notice is conclusive in terms of whether there was a 
manufacturing fault with Mr Ms particular car. I also have to place weight on the 
manufacturers agreement to cover the cost of the parts on a replacement engine. I dont see 
any reason why a manufacturer would agree to do this if the issue was simply one of wear 
and tear. This does suggest a manufacturing issue of some kind  at least in relation to Mr 
Ms particular car. Ive also kept in mind Mr Ms testimony about the first garages comments 
about the cylinder issue in a car of this age and the Nissan dealerships liaison with Nissan 
about the engine replacement. 
Taking all this together, I think its more likely than not that there was a fault that was present 
or developing at the point of supply, and therefore Im not persuaded that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So on balance, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint. 
I cant fairly say that Mr M should be able to reject the car without Northridge having had the 
chance to arrange the repairs in line with the requirements of the CRA. But I do think it fair to 
require Northridge to cover the labour and other sub-costs in relation to the replacement 
engine, on the basis that Nissan has agreed to meet the parts costs. 
I also think it fair to require Northridge to refund the monthly payments made by Mr M for the 
period during which hes been unable to use the car and to pay an amount of £100 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M because of the issue with the 
car.
I note that Mr M said he had incurred other costs in relation to the car being towed to 
garages, and the replacement of the cam sensor. However, as he has not been able to 
provide receipts for these costs, I cannot fairly require Northridge to refund them.
Putting things right
Northridge should:
Pay for the labour costs and other sub-charges regarding the repair.
Refund any monthly payments made by Mr M from January 2021, when the vehicle 
broke down, until the date the car is repaired. 
Add 8% simple interest* per year to the amounts refunded, calculated from the date 
each amount was paid to the date the compensation is paid.
Pay £100 for the inconvenience Mr M has experienced due to the faults with the car.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file (if any has been added).*if Northridge considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, should pay Mr M the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman