DRN-2931610
The complaint
Ms V complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
Ms V is represented by a professional claims management company.
What happened
Using some of the information Mutual has sent to us, here is a brief loan table.
Loan Approved Amount total repaid repaid
1 12 July 2014 £500 £700 1 July 2015
2 4 July 2015 £500 £700 15 June 2016
3 18 June 2016 £500 £700 5 July 2017
4 8 July 2017 £600 £840 11 July 2018
5 7 July 2018 £700 £980
£156 paid by use 
of loan 610 July 2019
6 13 July 2019 £570 £798 2 December 2020
Ms V has explained that she took several hundred pounds in cash to use on holiday each 
summer and paid it off over the course of that year.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that there was evidence of 
unsustainability from loan 4. He felt that Mutual should put things right for Ms V from loan 4.
Mutual disagreed and sent many submissions to explain why. It sent us a copy of a credit file 
for Ms V dated 2020 which covered the six year period of this lending. Our adjudicator did 
not have that information when he made his assessment.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 July 2021. The reply date for either or both parties to come back to 
me was 16 July 2021. Having received nothing from either party then I am proceeding to 
issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to 
complaints of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that 
surround the sale of this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to 
these issues. And our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  are on our 
website. So, I dont intend to go into detail about those here, but a brief summary is 
below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points 
and issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of 
published documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat 
lending, and the provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short 
term credit lenders.
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this 
Service has addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other 
decisions. Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Ms Vs circumstances or 
complaint I have referred to them where necessary.
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms 
than, for example, a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, 
option for a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to 
a consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the contrary on this point. I have 
considered these issues alongside everything else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms V could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. And the loan payments being affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further.The evidence/documentation from both parties
Mutual has explained a great deal about what it did and how it approaches the lending 
applications but has not sent very much in the way of documentation. The nine pages of 
handwritten application forms and a couple of credit agreements were not in 
chronological order and so it has been difficult to decipher which related to which loan. 
And there is nothing at all on Ms Vs applications for loans 1 and 2. It has sent us its 
final response letter (FRL).
The application forms showing Ms Vs declared income and expenditure were only three 
pages. From the chronology of the pages in the photocopied pdf I think that these 
figures in this table are as Ms V declared them at the time of the applications but the 
sheets may have got mixed up. Mutual had some time to clarify this after I issued my 
provisional decision but nothing has been received from Mutual. 
In my provisional decision I said that If Ms V did not recognise these figures then she 
could send us evidence to demonstrate otherwise. Ive received nothing from Ms V. So, 
I am proceeding with these figures.
Loans 1
20142
20153
June 
20164
July 
20175
June 
20186
July 
2019
Monthly Income wage 
and tax credit 
(partner income)No data No data £1,742 No 
data£1,742 £1,308 
(£400
week)
Monthly Expenses No data No data £202 a 
week
£875
monthNo 
data£202 a 
week
£875
month£202 a 
week
£875
month
Monthly Disposable 
incomeNo data No data No data No 
data£823 £706
Weekly repayments £13.??** £13.72 £13.72 £16.47 £19.21 £15.64
Monthly equivalent 
repayAround
£59£59.45 £59.45 £71.37 £83.24 £67.77
** the email from Mutual sending us a few details of loan 1 is cut off at the point 
where it gives the weekly rate
Mutual has recorded Ms V as having a partner in 2019 and a name appears in the 
application forms for partner details. Ms V denies having a partner with an income. As 
I said earlier, that page with that detail on it may refer to another year. No clarification 
on this has been received since I issued my provisiaonal decision. 
Mutuals FRL refers to different figures for the last loan in July 2019. And it further 
demonstrates that the information we have been given as the application copies may not be 
in the correct order. 
Mutual has sent to us a credit file which shows that Ms V had very little other credit. This 
is dated 2020 and so I am unclear as to whether it had done similar credit searches at 
the time of each loan application. If it did, its likely Mutual would have seen similar 
information to what I am seeing with this 2020 credit report. I say that because it covers 
a six year period and so that would cover most, if not all, of Ms Vs lending relationship 
with Mutual. From that report I note that Ms V hardly any debt at all and few accounts. 
These were two mail order accounts, some telecommunications agreements and the Mutual loans which were sequential and not overlapping.
Mutual says that the credit report shows no signs of any financial difficulties and 
on the evidence I have  the credit report dated 2020  I agree.
Ms V is represented by a third party and the Claim Audit Survey form she completed 
indicated that Ms V said she earned £700 a month at the time of the borrowing with 
Mutual, and her outgoings exceeded her income by about £258. This table is from that 
form.
Summary of client I&E declaration
Total Incomings £ 700
Total outgoings before loan payment £ 958
Available funds before loan payment £ -258
Ms V said that some of the additional costs related to the fact she was paying another 
home-credit lender around £114 a month as well as Mutuals loans. There was nothing 
on the credit file to show this other set of loans costing Ms V £114. And as I have said 
earlier, this credit report likely covered six years. We have asked Ms V about this but 
nothing has been received to clarify it.
In relation to Ms Vs income, the figures given to Mutual at the time of the applications 
were so different to what Ms V told her representative recently in the Audit form, that 
I thought it fair and reasonable to obtain more documentation to verify these figures and 
the other debt payments. So, I asked our adjudicator to obtain copies of Ms Vs bank 
statements for a period and asked if she could explain some of the matters that seem to 
need clarifying.
Ms V has not sent us anything and she goes further than that and has written back 
to us, through her representative, to say that she refuses to send us her copy bank 
statements. I outlined this in my provisional decision giving Ms V more time if she 
wished to avail herself of it  but nothing has been received. 
In those circumstances, I have very limited information from both parties on which to 
proceed, and what I do have contradicts each other to the extent that on most of the 
loans I can make no findings.
And if I did conclude that Mutual ought to have carried out some more extensive checks 
as the lending relationship developed, then I am not able to look to see what Mutual 
may have seen if it had done those additional checks. And I say this because I have 
nothing with which to review Ms Vs circumstances at the times of these loans other 
than the evidence I have outlined above. If Ms Vs income and expenditure for loans 3, 
5 and 6 were as she declared in her application forms, and with a credit file as light as 
I have seen, then the loans issued to her look to have been affordable.
I have not seen enough to lead me to think that the repetitive nature of the lending 
history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was 
unsustainable for Ms V.
None of this leads me to conclude either that Ms V was unable to afford these loans, nor that 
she was in a position where repaying the loans was unsustainable for her.So, my decision is the same as my provisional decision issued on 2 July 2021, and in the 
absence of anything further having been sent to me from either party, I do not uphold Ms Vs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman