DRN-1487033
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc mis-advised him and prematurely withdrew his 
graduate account. He says this caused him significant stress  and forced him to make 
unfavourable arrangements to pay off his overdraft. 
What happened
Mr M opened a student account with Santander in 2013. In December 2016, the account 
transferred to a graduate account  then transferred back to a student account in 
January 2017. Mr M says this was done in error as he was still studying. By 
September 2017, he'd completed his studies and so transferred to a graduate account. He 
had an interest-free, arranged overdraft of up to £2,000 on this account. 
Mr M says he was expecting the graduate account to last for three years. But in early 2019, 
Santander told him he'd be transferred to an everyday account later that year. Mr M 
queried this  and says he was told the transfer wouldn't happen until August 2020. 
Santander also offered him £40 compensation. Then in October 2019, it offered a further 
£50 compensation  but said the graduate account would in fact end in December 2019. 
Mr M says its since contradicted this. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr M referred the matter to our service. He thought 
different terms had been applied when he transferred back to a student account in 
January 2017  and that was why the graduate account term had been reduced. 
Our investigator contacted Santander and it clarified that, although it used to offer the 
graduate account for three years, the terms had changed. Any graduate accounts opened on 
or after 26 June 2017 had a two-year term. Thats why Mr Ms account was due to transfer 
on 17 December 2019. At that point, under the everyday account terms, his overdraft would 
start to incur interest. Due to the confusion, Santander agreed to waive this interest for the 
first sixty days. It also offered a further £210 compensation, bringing the total up to £300. 
Our investigator thought that, as the graduate account started after 25 June 2017, Mr M was 
only entitled to it for two years. They weren't convinced that the premature transfer issue had 
affected this. They did think Santander had given Mr M unclear and contradictory information 
about the change  but were satisfied that it had offered fair compensation for this.
Mr M disagreed. He explained that the situation had caused him a lot of stress and upset. He 
said hed been worried that the overdraft would be removed entirely  which would have 
caused him severe financial difficulty. Hed therefore taken out a loan with a high interest 
rate to pay off his overdraft. Our investigator didn't think Santander was liable for any 
additional costs he'd incurred as a result. So, as requested, Mr M's case has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ms graduate account. Term 11 says:
Unless you notify us beforehand that you wish to have different facilities with us, then on the 
second anniversary of your account opening (third anniversary for any accounts opened 
before 26 June 2017) youll cease to be eligible for the 123 Graduate Current Account.
The term goes on to explain that the account will then transfer to an appropriate current 
account and the specific graduate conditions will cease to apply. As Mr Ms graduate 
account opened after 25 June 2017, Im satisfied he was only eligible for the account for two 
years. So Santander was contractually entitled to withdraw it in December 2019. 
Ive considered whether this term has been applied fairly in the circumstances. Mr M says he 
would have been able to keep the graduate account for longer if it hadn't been for the 
transfer mix-up in December 2016/January 2017. Im not persuaded thats correct. Even if 
Mr M's account had consistently remained a student account until September 2017, he 
would still have been affected by the two-year term for graduate accounts which applied 
by that point. So I dont consider what happened in December 2016/January 2017 a fair 
reason to depart from the account terms. 
However, I do think Santander's communication about the changes was unclear and caused 
Mr M confusion. This is important as his arranged overdraft was interest-free under 
his graduate account terms  but would incur interest under the everyday account 
terms. Santander's poor communication about this could have affected his ability to take 
action (such as opening another account or reducing his overdraft) if he was unhappy with 
this change. So although I don't consider it fair to direct Santander to allow the graduate 
account to run for three years, I also don't consider it fair for Santander to start applying 
interest in line with the new account terms without giving Mr M adequate notice.
Given the confusion, Santander agreed to waive any interest for the first sixty days of the 
everyday account. This matches the notice it's contractually required to give when it changes 
the terms. So I'm satisfied this gave Mr M adequate notice. He says he didn't benefit from 
this as he'd already taken out a loan to pay off his overdraft. But the purpose of the interest-
free period was to ensure he had time to make other arrangements  such as obtaining 
alternative finance. And although he was worried that his overdraft would be completely 
withdrawn, our service told him this wouldn't be a consequence of the account transfer. 
Ultimately, it was his choice to make alternative arrangements. And Santander 
isn't responsible for the basis on which another lender offered him a loan. So although I 
appreciate the difficultly of Mr Ms situation, I dont consider any additional costs stemming 
from the loan to be a consequence of Santanders errors. In any event, he hasnt shown that 
hell pay more interest on the loan than he would have done if hed kept the overdraft.  
I've also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered. Santander has 
offered £300 compensation for this. Mr M thinks more is due. But what I must consider is, 
what situation would he be in but for any errors by Santander? Even if it had notified him 
more clearly about the changes, he would always have needed to make other arrangements 
if he wasn't happy with the new terms. So although this was stressful, it wasn't a 
consequence of Santander's errors. However, I do think the confusion around how long 
Mr M had to make other arrangements caused him stress and upset. He also suffered loss 
of expectation, as Santander repeatedly told him that his account would last for longer. 
Thinking about the impact this had, Im satisfied that £300 is a fair reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience Mr M has suffered as a result of Santander's errors. My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to:
pay Mr M £300 compensation, less the compensation it's already paid in relation to 
this complaint; and 
refund any interest charged on his account from 17 December 2019 to 
15 February 2020 (if applicable)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman