DRN-3299251
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mrs P with the following loans:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
receivedLoan 
status
Loan 1 01/07/19 £600 18 months £137.13 £2,468.34 Settled 
09/12/19
when 
Loan 2 
taken out
Loan 
209/12/19 £970 18 months £221.70 £3,990.60 Settled 
29/05/20
Loan 3 27/09/20 £1000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08 Active
Mrs P complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to her.
Loans 2 Go looked into her complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought 
the loans were affordable. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She didnt 
think Loans 2 Go had carried out proper checks in respect of Loans 2 and 3. And if Loans 2 
Go had done it wouldve seen that Mrs P couldnt afford the loan repayments and so it 
shouldnt have lent to her. 
As Loans 2 Go didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ps complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs P would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs P wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Loan 1
When Mrs P applied for the loan, she told Loans 2 Go that her monthly income was £1,700 
and her expenses were £311. Loans 2 Go said it carried out a credit search and verified her 
income using industry standard checks. It found that Mrs Ps monthly income was a 
minimum of £1,012.31 and it calculated her expenditure was £705.08. That meant Mrs P would have disposable income of £170.10 after making her new loan repayment to Loans 2 
Go.
The credit search revealed Mrs P owed a total of £285. She had two historic defaults. But 
thats not unusual for someone applying for this sort of credit. Overall, I think Loans 2 Gos 
checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan and the value of the 
repayments in relation to Mrs Ps monthly income. And these checks suggested that the 
loan repayments were affordable.  
Loan 2
I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that Mrs P was applying to borrow more 
only five months after shed taken out Loan 1. It was also aware that she had already been 
struggling to keep up with some repayments and with this new loan her repayments would 
be higher again.
Its next credit search showed that her borrowing had increased in that time from £295 to 
£5,813. So her debt had gone from being around a third of her monthly income to over five 
times it. Shed taken out another loan just after Loan 1 on which she owed £1,579. Shed 
later taken out two more loans. And she was close to her overdraft limit of £2,150. This 
pattern can often indicate that someone has become reliant on new borrowing to repay their 
existing loans.
As Loans 2 Go should have been concerned about her need to borrow again so soon, I 
think it should have carried out further checks to assure itself that Mrs P would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way over the 18 month term. Those checks could have 
included obtaining a copy of her bank statements. Im not suggesting here that these are the 
checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these would 
have given a good indication of the state of Mrs Ps financial situation at the relevant time. 
As I cant see that this was done, I dont think that the checks carried out before providing 
Mrs P with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
For me to be able to find that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given this loan, I have to be 
satisfied that by not carrying out proportionate checks Loans 2 Go has caused Mrs P a loss. 
In fact her bank statements for the two month period before she took out Loan 2 show that 
she spent more than her disposable income on gambling transactions. If Loans 2 Go had 
carried out proportionate checks, I think its more likely than not that it would have 
uncovered this and then not lent to Mrs P. So Im not persuaded that Loans 2 Go acted fairly 
in lending to Mrs P as it was likely that giving her more credit would simply make her 
situation worse.
Loan 3
This was now the third time in 14 months that Mrs P was applying for a loan from Loans 2 
Go. According to its checks Mrs Ps monthly income had dropped sharply to a minimum of 
£996.71 and surprisingly the credit search showed that the total amount she owed had gone 
down to £233 within a relatively short time. Loans 2 Go would have been aware that a 
lenders credit checks might not reveal the full extent of an applicants credit commitments. 
It is finely balanced but overall I think Loans 2 Go needed to do further checks to gain a 
thorough understanding of Mrs Ps financial position - for example by requesting bank 
statements. Had it done so, I think Loans 2 Go would have again realised that Mrs P was 
spending a large amount on gambling transactions. Had it known this, I dont think Loans 2 
Go would have lent to Mrs P as it was likely that further lending would make her situation 
worse.Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided Loans 2 and 3, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to those loans;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loans 2 and 3 from Mrs Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right for Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman