DRN-3835021
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds handling and 
settlement of a claim she made for storm damage to the roof of her property.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs W made a claim when a 
neighbours falling tree caused damage to her roof during a storm.
Gresham accepted the claim, and eventually arranged for repairs to be completed by one of 
its contractors. Mrs W has complained about the conduct of Greshams repairers, several 
missed appointments and the quality of the repairs which were carried out. 
Gresham arranged for a visual survey of the roof, post repairs, which concluded that the 
issues Mrs W had complained about werent related to the insured event or subsequent 
repairs. Instead, the report highlighted pre-existing wear and tear as the most likely cause of 
those issues. Gresham apologised that its contractors had smoked while carrying out works 
but said they had stopped when asked. Gresham accepted that the claim had been delayed 
due to missed appointments on its end and offered a total of £150 to compensate for the 
combined service issues it accepted responsibility for.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said Greshams surveyors findings persuaded her that the issues reported by Mrs W related 
to wear and tear rather than poor repairs. She agreed the service fell short, but said £150 
was enough to fairly compensate Mrs W for this.
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has brought her claim and complaint through a representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill only refer to Mrs W in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by her representative.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The repairs
The issue I need to decide here is whether the repairs carried out by Greshams repairer 
were adequate or not.
Mrs W says the repairs carried out by Gresham were of a poor standard. In particular, she 
says they used the incorrect roof tiles, the wrong colour mortar and the guttering they 
repaired isnt properly secured or level.
Gresham says the tiles and mortar repairs are adequate and that the guttering was level 
when installed. It says the roof is clearly suffering from significant pre-existing wear and tear, 
which isnt a result of the storm or subsequent repairs. It says wear and tear isnt covered 
under the policy terms.
The surveyors report Ive seen says that the tiles used for the repair are suitable for the roof 
and are secure. It highlights that there was pointing absent in all areas of the roof, which 
suggests a maintenance/wear and tear issue as opposed to this being claim related. It also 
said that hairline cracking to the walls beneath the roof was indicative of normal sediment 
movement and that some other areas of damage/issues were related to previous works as 
opposed to those carried out as part of the claim.
Ive carefully considered everything thats been said and provided about the quality of 
repairs. Having done so, Im most persuaded by the findings of Greshams surveyor, coupled 
with the photos and video taken during repairs and from the drone survey. Based on what 
Ive seen of these, Im satisfied on balance that the repairs carried out by Greshams agent 
were sufficient to deliver a lasting and effective repair to the damage caused by the insured 
event  the storm.
Im persuaded that the areas of cracked and/or missing pointing are a result of maintenance 
issues/wear and tear, which arent covered under the terms of Mrs Ws policy, rather than 
the impact of the falling branches during the storm. And that the other issues highlighted are 
a result wear and tear as opposed to the repairs carried out by Greshams contractor. Im 
also satisfied that the claim related mortar repairs are adequate, and that the colour match 
issue will most likely resolve itself as the new mortar naturally weathers.
Based on the photos and video footage taken during repairs, Im satisfied that the guttering 
was secured and level when repaired. The surveyors report suggests the current issue with 
the level is most likely due to the weight of accumulated foliage and/or interference following 
the repair. Ive seen no conflicting expert opinion to persuade me that an issue with the 
repairs is more likely to be the cause. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the 
issue with the guttering is most likely due to poor repairs.
The service
It isnt in dispute that the claim took too long to be resolved and that this was largely down to 
Greshams contractors missing appointments. It also doesnt appear to be in dispute that 
Greshams contractors were smoking on site, while carrying out the repairs, or that a call 
between Mrs W and Gresham wasnt handled well by Greshams call handler.
Gresham has apologised for these issues and has offered a total of £150 compensation. 
Taking into account the timeline of the claim, and the issues which I think Gresham is solely 
responsible for, I think £150, alongside Greshams apologies, is enough to fairly compensate 
Mrs W for the impact of its errors.
As I understand it, Mrs G accepted the initial £50 compensation but rejected the subsequent 
£100. So, in order to fairly resolve this complaint, Gresham must ensure that Mrs W receives 
the full £150 she has been offered, by paying any part of the combined offer which has yet to 
be paid.My final decision
Gresham Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Gresham Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs W £150 
compensation  less any amount she has already received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman