DRN-3443797
The complaint
Miss I complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has unfairly
recorded adverse information on her credit file.
What happened
Miss I had a personal loan with Tesco which she took out in 2016. In 2018 she contacted
Tesco to tell it about some mental health issues and provided some details about her
personal circumstances.
In October 2019 she missed a payment to her loan. The following month she contacted
Tesco and explained that she had been out of work for over a year and using her savings to
fund the loan payments, which had now run out. Tesco discussed her situation with her and
saw that her difficulties were long term. So it agreed a payment plan of £1 per month for six
months but explained that this would result in a default being applied to her credit file.
In December 2019, Tesco applied a default to Miss Is credit file and sent her associated
letters about this. Miss I continued to pay £1 a month until March 2020 when she contacted
Tesco to request an extension to this plan. She told Tesco that there had been no changes
to her circumstances and wanted to extend her plan for three months and that she wanted to
avoid a default. But when Miss I found that she had already been defaulted, she complained
to Tesco.
Tesco responded to Miss I saying that it felt it had acted fairly. It said it had agreed the plan
with Miss I and clearly explained what would happen. Miss I disagreed and referred her
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt feel that Tesco had acted fairly. They thought the letters that followed
the conversation about the plan would have been confusing and that Tesco acted too soon
in defaulting the account here, bearing in mind what the guidance about this says. They felt
that Tesco should remove the default and only report an arrangement to pay between
November 2019 and April 2020, a missed payment of May 2020 and the account as being
settled in June 2020. They said that Tesco should also pay £200 to compensate Miss I for
the impact this had.
Miss I agreed but Tesco didnt and so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision laying out my thoughts upon considering the complaint. I said:
Its clear that this situation will have been upsetting for Miss I and that having a default
recorded on her credit file will have a significant impact on her moving forward. What I have
to consider is whether it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to record that in the
circumstances here. Having done so, I think it is.
I listened to the call from when Miss I contacted Tesco in November 2019. During this, Miss I
confirms that she has an illness which means that she has been out of work for over a year.
She says shed been using her savings to fund her loan payments until now, but her savings
had run out. Miss I confirmed she didnt have any money to make a payment now and said
her difficulties were long term and shed be unlikely to return to work in the future. She also
mentioned she was behind on her mortgage payments, so she may have her house taken
off her.
From listening to the conversation, its clear why Tesco viewed her as being in severe
financial difficulties. Miss I told Tesco that her financial position was not only long term, but
so serious that she might lose her house  so it was important that Tesco offered
proportionate help as quickly as it could.
Tesco did explore Miss Is circumstances with her. It asked questions around what it could
do for her and about her income and expenditure. But after asking, Miss Is answers showed
that any payment would be unaffordable, where she was spending more than she had
coming in each month. Tesco offered 30 days breathing space for Miss I, but Miss I said
that £1 per month would be ok for her to pay and confirmed she wanted to pay that. Tesco
clearly explained that this plan would result in a default and that while strongly worded letters
would be sent, they didnt need any responses and were only sent to facilitate the plan
theyd agreed.
So I think Tesco acted fairly and proportionately in that call. It was clear about what was
being agreed and the consequences of this. For me to say that Tesco should now remove
the default, Id need to be able to have some reason to say it could, or should, have done
things differently here. But I cant see that. The information Miss I gave it was that she
couldnt afford the loan moving forward in the long term. Tesco said that it could accept her
payment of £1 a month, but only if it defaulted the account and it explained what this would
entail.
Tesco did default the account sooner than the relevant guidance here generally suggests 
but as Tesco has said, that is guidance and a business can act sooner than that when its in
a customers interest. At the time, Tesco explained that by taking this step when it did, it
would be able to give Miss I what she wanted  which was the space to only make a £1
payment for six months in light of her circumstances. So while it may have defaulted the
account quickly  that was a necessary and proportionate step to take to ensure that Tesco
could facilitate the plan for her as a matter of urgency.
Ive also carefully thought about what Miss I has said about her medical condition and
mental health. Tesco was told about this during the call and as far back as 2018. Tesco
clearly took this into account when speaking to Miss I, but during the call here she gave it a
lucid and clear picture of her finances. I also note that Tesco said on several occasions that
it could give her 30 days of breathing space and that it didnt want to accept a payment
where one wasnt affordable. But Miss I herself confirmed that she wanted to pay £1 a
month.
In the call, Miss I sounded honest and lucid and I cant see any reason that Tesco should
have thought twice about whether she was able to understand what was being discussed.
Some of what Miss I said was slightly inconsistent  and Tesco did try to clarify this, but
overall, those were small inconsistencies about what she had told Tesco in the past or
whether she was paying mortgage or rent (which Miss I eventually confirmed was a
mortgage). What came through clearly in the call was the severity of Miss Is financial
difficulties at the time of the conversation  which Tesco tried to help her with.
In terms of the follow up letters, I accept that without context, these may have been
confusing for Miss I. But I cant put to one side the fact that Tesco explained that these
letters would be sent and told Miss I why she would receive them. I dont think that Tesco
can be held responsible for any confusion the letters may have caused here, where they
explained the situation with them in the call before they were sent.In any event, by the time Miss I called in March 2020 - and Tesco knew she was confused or
perhaps hadnt remembered the nature of the plan  the account had already been defaulted
and the plan had been running for a few months, so Tesco couldnt have done more at this
time.
What seems to have happened here is that a few months after the plan was agreed, Miss I
seems to have come into some money, or perhaps discovered that she had some savings
which she could use to repay the debt in full. But Tesco wasnt aware of that in the call when
it agreed to help her. In fact  Miss I told Tesco that she didnt have any savings left to make
payments. Miss I has provided some statements, but nothing which shows that she had this
money available at the time this plan was agreed  which makes me think that what she told
Tesco in November 2019 was more likely than not accurate.
So overall here, I think Tesco has acted fairly, even if I realise that Miss I wont see this the
same way. It gave her tailored, proportionate help at a time that she needed this and
explained in full what this help would entail and what the consequences would be. That help
did result in adverse information being recorded on her credit file  but Tesco explained that
to her at the time.
Miss I did later pay the debt off, but I dont think that now means it should undo what it did in
the past, when that was agreed by both parties as the right thing to do at the time. Ultimately
what Tesco recorded on Miss Is credit file reflects what was agreed at the time and what 
was put in place. So it follows that I think its fair that it continues to report this.
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision, but Miss I didnt. She said, in summary, that I 
hadnt taken account of the severity of her mental illness, or the impact this would have had 
on her at the time. She also said that she felt that Tesco hadnt taken account of this either. 
She then provided account statements to show that she did indeed have the savings 
available to have repaid the debt when she spoke to Tesco about this and the plan was 
agreed.
So I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by thanking Miss I for making such a detailed response to my provisional decision. 
The information she provided was very helpful and Ive carefully considered what shes said 
about her position at the time and about her mental illness. Ive used the term mental illness 
here to reflect the terms Miss I herself uses to refer to this. I also want to assure her that I 
am aware of the nature of her condition, its severity and its impact on her from considering 
the information she has provided.
Ive also looked at the statements Miss I has sent us. Those do show that she had savings at 
the time of the November 2019 call with Tesco. I told Tesco about this and asked whether, in 
light of this, itd be prepared to now remove the default, but it declined.
This is quite a finely balanced issue to decide on. Ultimately my role here is to be impartial  
that is, to be objective and to be fair to both parties. The starting point for that is whether 
Tesco acted unfairly in doing what it did during the November 2019 call. But I cant conclude 
that it did, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
Tesco was previously aware of Miss Is condition from her correspondence with it and she restated what the nature of her mental illness was during the call. So its not that Tesco 
didnt take this into account  in my view it did. But Tesco was placed in a difficult position 
during this call. On the one hand it was aware of Miss Is condition, on the other it was told 
that her financial difficulties were so severe that she may lose her home. There was an issue 
as to whether she was paying a mortgage or paying rent  but regardless of which was true, 
the implication here was that Miss Is situation was one of severe financial difficulties. In the 
circumstances, I can see why Tesco reacted as it did and agreed to the plan, as Miss I 
wanted. Doing so was, in my view, a proportionate response to what Miss I told it.
I also note that Tesco suggested that Miss I took some breathing space and said she 
shouldnt just agree to a plan if she couldnt afford it. But Miss I confirmed that she wanted 
the plan put in place. So its difficult for me to see what Tesco should, or could, have done 
differently here. It took into account what Miss I said about her condition and financial 
position at the time and agreed a plan with her that seemed to help with that. And it fully 
explained that this would result in a default here.
I dont think that more questioning would have led to a different outcome here and in my 
view, the only other thing it could have done here in light of what Miss I told it would be to 
have given her some time to consider the situation. But Tesco did suggest this, although 
Miss I confirmed that she wanted the plan. She told it that she had no savings and while that 
now doesnt seem to have been accurate, I cant see how Tesco could have been aware of 
that at the time.
I realise that its the nature of Miss Is condition that she doesnt know why she said this, 
because of what would have been an altered thought process at the time. I understand this 
is a reason she may have told Tesco what she did. But, even by the time of Miss Is call to 
Tesco in March 2020, she was aware that there was a plan and wanted to extend it if 
possible. Tesco asked about her mental illness during this call and Miss I said that she was 
feeling much better.
So it would have looked to Tesco that it had agreed the right thing in November 2019 - given 
that she mentioned extending it some three months or so later. It seems like it was only 
when the default was mentioned again that Miss I began to suggest that she could afford to 
pay the loan and began questioning the situation. But by this point, Tesco had done what it 
said it would. It had put in place the plan and as a result of that, the account had been 
defaulted. It does seem like Miss I had forgotten, or misunderstood the full discussion that 
happened in November 2019 and I realise that her mental illness will likely have played a 
part in that. But it still remains that Tesco fully and clearly explained things to Miss I and 
treated her, in my view, proportionately and sympathetically.
In order for me to say that Tesco has acted unfairly here, Id need to conclude that it treated 
Miss I unreasonably in some way. But I dont think it did. In terms of what Miss I told it, there 
was no perfect solution  but Tesco took appropriate and proportionate action to respond to 
what Miss I told it. I think recording the default here is an accurate record of what was 
agreed and what happened. I know the impact that this will have on Miss I  but I cant see 
any reason that I can fairly tell Tesco to remove it or to pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman