DRN-3409792
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) terminated his income
protection claim. 
What happened
Mr C became absent from work from 2007 due to depression. He made a claim on his group
income protection policy around 2010. The claim was accepted by L&G and benefit paid for 
the next 10 years. 
Regular assessments were carried out where Mr C continued to be diagnosed with severe or
moderate depression and deemed unable to work. Mr C took antidepressants on and off for 
a few years but explained they made his symptoms worse, so he stopped. He also tried 
talking therapy but didnt find this beneficial.
In 2014 Mr C let L&G know he planned to move abroad to try and help improve his mental
wellbeing with new surroundings. L&G confirmed this would not affect his entitlement under
the policy and the move was completed in 2015. Mr C was still diagnosed with severe
depression following his relocation and L&G continued to pay his claim.
In 2017 L&G made Mr C an offer of £449k in settlement of his claim. But he didnt want to
accept this as he didnt think hed be capable of returning to employment. 
A review then took place in 2019 and L&G said the medical evidence suggested Mr Cs 
heath had improved and they thought he was capable of working. So they terminated his 
claim in February 2020.
Unhappy with this, Mr C complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had
happened and said she didnt think L&G had acted unfairly. Mr C disagreed so the case was
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold this complaint. In 
summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say L&G has a responsibility not to avoid claims
or terminate them unfairly. And, as they accepted the claim its for L&G to demonstrate that
the decision to terminate the claim was fair.
L&Gs decision was based on the 2019 consultant psychologist report and the rehabilitation 
reports - both suggested Mr C was capable of a return to work if he engaged in
further treatment. But I dont think these reports were enough to fairly terminate the
claim in the circumstances and Ill explain why.
L&G said the evidence indicated Mr C was no longer medically prevented (as he had been
previously when theyd paid the claim) from returning to employment. But I dont think L&Gs 
evidence persuades me Mr Cs condition had improved to the extent he could return to work. 
They referred to his ability to move to a different country and relocate his whole life. 
However, Mr C completed that move in 2015 and the consultant psychiatrist who saw him 
after the relocation said he was still medically unable to work. On that basis L&G continued 
to agree he was incapacitated after hed moved abroad, and for a further three years beyond 
that. So, I think its unfair for them to now say the 2015 move suggests he no longer meets 
the definition of incapacity because it contradicts their previous position.
Im also mindful of the fact L&G made an offer to settle Mr Cs claim in 2017 which again
demonstrates their position that he was still unable to work two years after he relocated.
L&G and the 2019 consultant psychologist have highlighted Mr C wasnt taking medication
or having talking therapy treatment to help improve his condition. However as above, this
isnt a change in his circumstances as he hasnt taken medication since 2010 and L&G
continued to pay the benefit for many more years. So again, I think its unfair to rely on that
now.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence around Mr Cs ability to return to employment. Its
for L&G to show Mr C was able to return to any suited occupation. But Im not persuaded
theyve done enough to reasonably demonstrate Mr C was capable of returning to
employment after an absence of about 10 years. My role is to assess whether L&Gs
suggestions of other suited occupations are fair and reasonable, but Im unable to do so
here based on the lack of supporting evidence provided by L&G on this point.
L&G refer to their rehab specialist who said her role is to establish a persons level of
capabilities to determine if they can function on a reliable basis. But Im not satisfied this
report addressed Mr Cs ability to undertake a suited occupation  which is what was
needed. The specialist said she didnt explore the possibility of alternative roles in more
depth as she didnt think an illness was preventing Mr C from returning to employment. On
that basis she determined that he would have the skills and ability to undertake his own role
and also less demanding suited roles, within a similar field. But I dont think its fair to rely on
this general approach for someone who currently lives abroad and has had such a long
period of absence. L&G has just relied on transferrable skills from Mr Cs previous job in
finance, but I think that is too light touch after such a long period of absence. Other than
saying he needs to attend CBT to improve his condition, L&G hasnt suggested a
rehabilitation plan or and an actual skills analysis to determine if Mr Cs current level of skill
is the same as it was ten years prior.
In 2015 the consultant psychiatrist was specifically asked about Mr Cs ability to perform in a
suited role. His professional opinion was Mr C is clearly unable to consider any form of
employment.. if Mr C were to try to hold down employment at the present time, he is likely
to fail and this is likely to compound his depressive feelings. When asked about the 
symptoms preventing him from working the consultant psychiatrist reported low mood.
Irritability, lack of motivation, reduced energy, tiredness and memory and concentration
difficulties would preclude him from working in any capacity at the present time. He said
further treatment is required prior to considering a return to work and confirmed he would
support a graded and structured rehabilitation programme if further treatments lead to
improvements in Mr C's symptoms.
But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me Mr Cs symptoms improved to the
extent he was able to return to employment. In 2019 the consultant psychologist diagnosed
Mr C with mild depressive episode and said he didnt think this condition should prevent him
from working. Although this was a face to face review, Im less persuaded by this opinion. He
said Mr C isnt disabled despite his residual low mood, distractibility and a negative attitude
toward his abilities. The report also confirms Mr C is sleep deprived and he refers to poor
eye contact and daily routines saying Mr C has been more or less in the same unhappy
state for up to 8 or more years. On balance, the medical evidence suggests Mr Cs
condition and symptoms had remained the same. The psychologist also said it was too early
to propose a timetable that Mr C may be able to return to work because Mr C is not currentlyreceiving treatment and has not worked for so many years.
Mr C provided a July 2020 report conducted by a consultant psychiatrist who said there
hadnt been a change in Mr Cs condition since the previous psychiatrist report in 2015. He
said although further treatment may alleviate some of the distress currently suffered by Mr C,
it was his opinion it is extremely unlikely Mr C will return to his pre illness level of 
functioning. This was forwarded to L&G and reviewed by their medical officer but it didnt
change their opinion. However, Im not persuaded this evidence was fairly considered by
L&G. Im satisfied this is a contemporaneous piece of independent medical evidence that is
consistent with the other professions of the same level that shows Mr Cs condition hadnt
improved to the extent he was able to return to employment.
Mr C has been seen by a number of consultant psychiatrists over the years and they have all
considered him as suffering from a moderate to severe depressive illness that meant he was
unable to work unless there was improvement in his condition. I think its unfair L&G have
given such weight to the 2019 consultant psychologist and rehab specialist who both said Mr
Cs depression wasnt severe enough to prevent him from returning to employment, but
didnt go into detail about his ability and readiness for work. So whilst I acknowledge these
medical opinions, Im not persuaded they were enough to show Mr Cs condition had 
improved since the previous psychiatrists opinions that Mr C wouldnt be able to return to 
work.
In summary, Im not satisfied that L&G has sufficiently demonstrated that Mr C no longer
meets the relevant definition of incapacity. 
Mr C accepted my provisional decision but asked if his legal costs could be covered as he 
felt unable to make this complaint without representation. 
L&G didnt agree with my provisional decision and made a number of further points. In 
summary they said:
Mr Cs condition is now mild 
I hadnt given enough weight to the evidence they had relied on before terminating 
the claim 
Mr C did not choose to pursue treatment, which is difficult to understand for someone 
experiencing an ongoing severe illness
They were unhappy I had given weight to the consultant psychiatrists (Dr Ts) 
evidence because it came after their decision to terminate the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further detailed submissions from by L&G and carefully 
reconsidered all the relevant medicals reports. However, theyve not changed my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
L&G have highlighted that Mr C reported to the rehab specialist that he only has a 
bad day once a month - so she said this suggests that his mental health is stable on 
the majority of days. But I disagree with how this has been presented. Although Mr C 
reports a bad day being only a month, this needs to be read in context with the rest of 
the report where Mr C says his symptoms vary from day to day. By a bad day he 
explains he stays home alone as he cant see anyone. But he also explains that on 
an average day although his symptoms are less severe and he manages to complete daily tasks, he is still tired all the time with poor concentration and focus and he cant 
be clear or anything. Mr C confirmed he was unable to complete his training course 
in 2019 due to lack of concentration. And said he was concerned he couldnt even 
cope with a supermarket job due to his lack of focus. 
So whilst the rehabilitation reports suggest Mr Cs is capable of performing daily 
tasks, Im not persuaded they show he is able to return to a suited occupation  
which is the relevant test here. 
L&G also provided an opinion from their medical officer Dr G who reported Mr C had 
a good level of functioning in day to day life. But as above, showing Mr C conducts 
daily activities isnt the same as demonstrating he is capable of performing in a suited 
occupation. 
Ive carefully reconsidered the psychologist report L&G provided from Dr C. He 
diagnosed mild depressive episode rather than the severe depression previous 
consultant psychiatrists have diagnosed. I acknowledge Dr Cs opinion that Mr Cs 
condition had improved, but I dont think the report is persuasive evidence Mr Cs 
was well enough to return to work. Despite his improvement, Dr C still said Mr C has 
been in the same unhappy state for 8 years and he doesnt conclude Mr C is 
immediately able to resume working responsibilities. 
His professional medical opinion was that Mr C still requires therapy to stop seeing 
himself as defeated and hopeless. He stressed the importance of Mr C receiving 
further treatment around activity scheduling and re-engaging with the world on an 
incremental basis. His advice was that after this treatment had taken place, a phased 
return to work was possible. 
However, this treatment didnt take place.  And L&G still terminated the claim, which I 
think is unfair. 
In relation to Mr C returning to a suited role  I note he told Dr C he was worried 
about his ability to use Excel, which is the basic spreadsheet software used in most 
computer based roles.  L&G have explained they are relying on Mr Cs transferrable 
skills from his previous jobs in finance to demonstrate his ability to work in a suited 
role. But I dont think that is enough or fair in the circumstances of this case. Due to 
the length of time Mr C has been absent from work, I think it would be reasonable to 
conduct a more detailed skills analysis to establish Mr Cs current level of skill, rather 
than being reliant on experience and knowledge that is likely to be outdated after a 
10 year absence.
Following the decision terminate his claim, Mr C provided a new psychiatrist report 
from Dr T. L&G had the chance to review and respond to this evidence and 
confirmed it didnt make a difference to their position. But they have raised concerns 
about my comments in relation to this additional evidence. This is a complex ongoing 
medical claim and, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think the evidence 
L&G relied on to terminate the claim was enough. So it is reasonable for me to 
consider any further medical evidence in the round, especially given the time span of 
this claim. For clarity, my decision doesnt turn on this piece of further evidence, it 
just further persuades me that Mr C remains medically incapacitated to some degree.
All of L&Gs experts have based their opinions on Mr Cs ability to move abroad. But 
as explained in my provisional decision, its important to set out that Mr C contacted 
L&G before he went to specifically ask if this long term move would affect his claim. 
L&G confirmed it wouldnt and he relied on this before relocating. So I dont think its 
fair to now terminate his claim on this basis. Especially as L&G have continued to say 
he met the definition of incapacitated for many years after his move. 
However, in line with the terms of his policy, Mr C does need to show a willingness to engage in the rehabilitation and therapy suggested by the medical reports produced 
by L&G. I understand why Mr C has chosen not to take medication, following extreme 
side effects previously. And I can see he has had negative therapy experiences in 
the past which impacted him. But it is still important he engages with the suggested 
treatment plan if he continues to need cover under this policy.  
I understand L&Gs referral for CBT was unsuccessful due to Mr C being abroad. But 
this needs to be explored further so he can attempt to follow the appropriate 
treatment plan suggested by Dr C in regard to activity scheduling and confidence 
building. Mr C has said he would be able to pay for this treatment himself, so this is 
something he could arrange himself from abroad. Once this recommended treatment 
has taken place, or if Mr C has refused to engage, L&G would be in a fair position to 
review the claim again.  
Mr C has been represented in this complaint and asked if his legal costs can be 
covered. But Im satisfied Mr C could've progressed this matter through L&Gs appeal 
and complaints procedure and referred the matter to our informal service, without the 
need for legal representation. So I wont be asking L&G to do anything in relation to 
this. 
In summary, the onus is on L&G to demonstrate Mr C no longer meets their definition of 
incapacitated, and on balance Im not satisfied theyve done that here. The evidence they 
relied on shows Mr C is capable of preforming daily activities - and whilst I accept this does 
show an improvement in his condition from previous reports, I remain unpersuaded it has 
gone far enough to show Mr C is able to perform in a suited occupation. 
On that basis, I think L&G unfairly terminated Mr Cs claim.
Putting things right
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited need to put things right by:
reinstating Mr Cs claim, backdating the payments to when it was terminated, and
8% simple interest should be added.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £355,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £355,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited by reinstating Mr Cs claim and 
backdating the payments to when it was terminated. My decision is that Legal and General 
should pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £355,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I additionally require Legal and 
General to pay Mr C 8% interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000, I only require Legal and 
General to pay Mr C 8% interest on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that 
Legal and General pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. 
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Legal and General. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman