DRN-3147879
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mrs S was given a loan by Progressive Money for £4500 to be repaid over 60 months. The 
monthly repayment was £214.07. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Progressive Money asked for information about Mrs Ss income and expenditure. It also 
requested a payslip to verify her wages. Progressive Money acquired a credit report for Mrs 
S and reviewed bank statements that covered a month leading up to the date that Mrs S 
asked for a loan.
I dont need to draw any conclusions about the checks that Progressive Money carried out 
on this occasion. This is because, on balance, I dont think Progressive Money made a fair 
lending decision for the loan and I will explain why.
Mrs S asked for the loan on 6 February 2018 for £4500 and when she did this, she told them 
about her income and expenditure. Her income was validated by a payslip. Progressive 
Money also checked her bank statements and carried out a credit search. When I see 
Progressive Moneys income and expenditure sheet I can see, on the face of it, she had 
sufficient income to be able to afford the loan from Progressive Money.
But the lender was aware from the credit check and also Mrs Ss submitted bank statements 
that she had a number of credit impairments that I think showed that she was having 
ongoing problems managing her finances.
I think Progressive Money focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mrs 
S on a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to 
establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet her loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
On the credit search that it carried out, Progressive Money would have seen that Mrs S had 
11 defaults against her name. It points out that these defaults came in the main from 2016, a 
while before this loan application was approved. And it also says it asked Mrs S to explain 
why these defaults came to be. Mrs S told them this was to do with her employment at the 
time and that she was earning less for a while. And that this was resolved. But when I look 
through the defaulted accounts, I can see that 6 of them have outstanding balances left to 
repay. Mrs S had £5554 to repay on a building society loan, along with £6589 on a credit 
card balance. In total she owed £16,733 in defaulted accounts and this amount was 
outstanding. For most of the accounts, it doesnt look like she had made arrangements to 
repay them either. 
Progressive Money has told our service that it had asked Mrs S about the defaulted 
accounts and that it was assured that she was now back on track with her employment and 
wages. It says that this was supported by the fact that she had taken out new lines of credit 
and was repaying these on time. These being credit card accounts and a new loan. But 
when I look at this, I cant see how much assurance Progressive Money should have taken 
from this, considering that she still owed over £16,000 from her defaulted accounts. In 
addition, I can see a mail order account on Mrs Ss credit search results that had an 
outstanding balance of £1074 where she missed payments, had been in arrears and the 
account had been flagged as having a debt management programme or plan in place. I think 
Progressive Money should have had serious concerns about Mrs Ss ability to sustainably 
meet her loan repayments based on what it would have seen on the credit search it carried 
out. 
I have also looked at the bank statement that Progressive Money gathered and agree with 
the investigator with what they found when they reviewed these. I can see that the account 
had gone over its agreed overdraft limit and there were returned direct debits with these both 
adding fees and charges. I also note the missed mortgage payments and council tax 
payments too although acknowledge Progressive Money discussed this with Mrs S and she 
gave reasons for both.
Taking matters as a whole when I think about what was on the credit search results and also 
what was showing on the bank statements Mrs S submitted, I dont think Progressive Money 
made a fair lending decision. I think on balance that Progressive Money ought reasonably to 
have realised that Mrs S was finding it difficult to get out from under her debt problems with 
the high defaulted balance that she had accrued and also through her existing debt 
commitments, and that it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the loan 
over the extended terms provided, that being of 5 years. I think the bank statements that it 
gathered supported this conclusion, with unauthorised overdraft fees and returned direct 
debits. I think in these particular circumstances; Progressive Money should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her based on what it would have had in front 
of it as the information it had gathered showed that she was having problems managing her 
finances.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think Progressive Money should have 
agreed to provide the loan to Mrs S. So, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint 
and direct Progressive Money to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Progressive Money didnt respond. Mrs Ss representatives 
responded but had nothing further to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, Progressive Money now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs S to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Progressive Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mrs 
S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ss loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Progressive Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the 
loans.
If there is a balance remaining, Progressive Money should show forbearance and 
arrange a payment plan with Mrs S that is affordable for her.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money should give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to 
put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman