DRN-3418403
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) delayed returning its funds after the bank decided to close its account.
Ps director, Mr L, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. He is represented in doing 
so by Mr H. 
What happened
P banked with NatWest. The company took out a Bounce Back Loan with the bank in May 
2020.
In October 2020, NatWest carried out a review of its relationship with P that led it to withdraw 
its services. 
NatWest notified P by text message on or around 12 October that the companys account 
would be closed and followed this up in writing on 14 October. The bank provided P with a 
funds release form to arrange for the transfer of the funds held in its account, which it 
completed and returned later that month. The account balance was around £48,000.
Having not received the funds, P complained to NatWest. In its response of 11 December 
2020, the bank said:
It had acted in line with the terms and conditions when closing Ps accounts and the 
decision wouldnt be changed.
It could take up to 60 days to process the funds release form, which it had received 
on 29 October 2020.
While it hadnt made an error in closing the accounts, it was refunding unpaid item 
fees of £36 and service charges totalling £76.65 as a gesture of goodwill.
With 60 days having passed and the funds still outstanding, P followed up again with 
NatWest and then referred the matter to us.
NatWest completed the transfer of Ps funds to an alternative account on 5 February 2021.
P says that delays in receiving these funds meant that it incurred costs in arranging 
alternative finance between October 2020 and February 2021. It says it did so through 
invoice financing, increasing its limit at a cost of £2,000 a month. So it wants NatWest to 
reimburse it a total of £10,000 for these fees. The company also says that being without its 
funds for this period caused it considerable distress and inconvenience, for which it wants 
compensation.
NatWest says it explained, in the funds release form, that it could take up to 60 days for the 
money to be transferred. It says it received the form on 29 October 2020, so the funds 
shouldve been released on 28 December. Its offered to pay 8% interest on the balance 
from this date until the funds were transferred on 5 February 2021. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that NatWest had made a fair 
offer to put things right. She thought it was right that P was compensated for the delay in 
receiving its funds from 28 December onwards. But she didnt think P had incurred any 
additional fees in invoice financing as a result, because she thought the company wouldve 
utilised the factoring irrespective of delays in obtaining the funds from NatWest and incurred 
the same costs regardless.
As P didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. I said:
NatWest has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use 
under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so.
I can see that NatWest restricted Ps access to the account once it initiated its 
review. This restriction remained in place until the account was closed. The terms 
and conditions of Ps account allowed NatWest to restrict its services in certain 
circumstances and, having reviewed the basis of NatWests decision to review and 
restrict Ps account, Im satisfied that it did so in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in this respect.
Following the review, NatWest decided to withdraw its services from P. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close 
the companys account immediately in certain circumstances. I think this was 
reasonable in light of the findings of the banks review (although the bank opted to 
give P seven days notice of the closure rather than process it immediately).
Thereafter, Id expect NatWest to deal with the release of Ps funds within a 
reasonable timescale  and I dont think it did. While NatWest has accepted 
responsibility for the delay from 28 December 2020 until the funds were eventually 
released on 5 February 2021, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for the bank 
to take even this long to return the money to P. Its form said that it could take up to 
60 days, but this doesnt mean that it shouldve done. 
The only reason that NatWest has given for the delay is that it was reviewing Ps 
eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained prior to the banks decision to 
withdraw its services. It ultimately concluded that P could retain the loan. I cant see 
why this took almost four months  from the date of its decision to end its relationship 
with P on 12 October 2020 to the release of funds on 5 February 2021. 
While there may be circumstances in which it may legitimately take the bank between 
28 and 60 days to release funds  as it advises customers on its form  I dont think 
any applied in Ps case. From what Ive seen, NatWest only needed to review the 
position regarding the loan. I think it shouldve been able to do that within 28 days at 
the most. If it couldnt, it ought to have considered taking other steps to mitigate the 
impact on P (for example, by releasing the remainder of the account balance and 
dealing with the loan funds separately). Taking all of this into account and accepting that it would always have taken some 
time to arrange the release of Ps funds, I think NatWest ought reasonably to have 
transferred the funds within 28 days of receiving Ps request. The banks records 
indicate it received the form from P on 29 October 2020, so I think NatWest shouldve 
released the funds by 26 November. And so I think the bank should compensate P 
for being without the money from this date until it was returned to the company on 5 
February 2021.
P says that it incurred additional costs in its invoice financing arrangements as a 
result of the delays on NatWests part. P has provided statements from the financing 
company, and I can see it was charged £2,000 a month for the credit it obtained over 
the period in question. But it is also apparent that P was regularly using invoice 
financing and obtained significantly more credit over this period than the funds it was 
due from NatWest. So it seems most likely to me that P would always have entered 
into such arrangements. And I can see it was charged the same fee irrespective of 
the credit it obtained  so even if it hadnt needed to cover the funds awaited from 
NatWest, it would still have incurred the same level of charge.
P was, though, deprived the use of its funds and its right that its compensated for 
this and the inconvenience it was caused as a result. NatWest has already offered to 
pay 8% interest on the account balance from 28 December 2020 until its release, but 
for the reasons above I think should be backdated to 26 November. P also had to 
chase up on a number of occasions, ultimately raising a complaint that it referred to 
us in light of the ongoing delays. So I also think it would be fair for the bank to pay P 
compensation of £150 for this.
As my thoughts differed slightly from those of our investigator, I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr H agreed with my findings on what the bank 
had done wrong, but thought that more compensation was due to P. In summary, he didnt 
think this fairly reflected the impact on P of the sudden closure of its account and its inability 
to access its funds  noting that had it not been for the factoring, the business wouldnt have 
been survived.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. So 
Ill explain why Mr Hs further comments havent led me to think that any more compensation 
is warranted.
Firstly, I should reiterate that I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in its closure of Ps 
accounts. So while I dont doubt that the immediate closure of the companys accounts 
wouldve caused it some considerable inconvenience  particularly in arranging alternative 
facilities in the middle of the pandemic and arranging both incoming and outgoing 
payments  this isnt something that I think NatWest needs to compensate it for.
Mr H also highlighted that NatWest didnt give any explanation for its decision to end its 
relationship with P. But it wasnt required to disclose its reasons and such matters are 
subject to some legitimate confidentiality. So it didnt do anything wrong in this regard.The error that I found on NatWests part was in its delay in releasing Ps funds. So it is for 
the impact of this alone that I am requiring NatWest to compensate P. 
In this respect, Ive reconsidered whether P suffered any financial losses as a result of the 
delays on NatWests part. But Ive still not seen that it did. I accept Mr Hs comments that P 
only survived because it utilised the invoice financing. And of course, it incurred costs in 
doing so. But for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I still cant see that the costs it 
incurred were any higher than they wouldve been even if NatWest had returned its funds 
sooner. P borrowed much more than the funds held by NatWest, which  along with the fact 
that the company used invoice financing routinely  would suggest that it wouldve entered 
into such arrangements with or without the money in its NatWest account. And while it may 
have borrowed a lower amount if things had gone as they should have, I cant see that it 
wouldve been charged any less  as the statements that P previously provided show that it 
was charged the same fee regardless of how much credit it obtained.
So I still think that the fair way to resolve this complaint is for NatWest to compensate P for 
being deprived of its funds for longer than was reasonable and for the inconvenience this 
caused, in the manner proposed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
Calculate 8% simple interest per year on the account balance from 26 November 
2020 to 5 February 2021 and pay this amount to P, and 
Pay S compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman