DRN-2888791
The complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a loan.
What happened
Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a car loan in 2003. Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
I sent Mrs R and Santander a provisional decision on 17 May 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Because of all the time thats passed, neither side have been able to provide the original 
paperwork from the sale. But I have looked carefully at sample copies of application 
documents from the time of Mrs Rs sale. From what I can see, it looks like Santander would 
have offered Mrs R the choice to take out the policy or turn it down. And the PPIs cost would 
have been set out separately to the cost of the loan itself  the policy was not part and parcel 
of the lending. Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the 
time, nor anything which shows that Mrs R was misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI 
here. So I think its most likely that Santander made Mrs R aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs R, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Santander if they did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mrs R as possible, 
Ive assumed they did. That means Santander had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mrs R was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. While Mrs R had been off work sick before taking 
out the loan, the medical condition in question would normally have been a one-off which 
would not have caused her to claim in future. And given that the loan was for a car, and the 
condition would have prevented her from driving, it seems most likely that Mrs R had 
recovered by the time she bought the PPI. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Rs 
existing benefits and covered her for far longer. Indeed, Mrs R was only entitled to the very 
limited statutory benefits and had only a small amount of savings, so she was potentially left 
at substantial risk without PPI. Overall, it looks like the policy could have really been useful 
for Mrs R in case something went wrong.
From what Ive seen, the cost of the policy would have been set out clearly on the credit 
agreement. So I think Mrs R wouldve understood how much she would need to pay for it if 
she chose it. And given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs R made a 
successful claim she couldve got back far more than she paid for it.
It is possible that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But as 
I explained above, Mrs R doesnt appear to have been significantly affected by any of those 
things. 
Lastly, I have considered the rules surrounding commission and profit share on PPI policies. 
But those rules only apply to agreements which started on or after 6 April 2007 or which 
were still running on 6 April 2008. The agreement in this case started in 2003 and ended in 
2006, so the rules about commission and profit share dont apply.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 June 2021. But neither Mrs R nor Santander sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman