DRN-3760983
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund a payment 
he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr M says he was looking at offers on social media in January 2021. He input his details on 
a merchants website including his credit card number. But that when he found that this 
wasnt a free offer didnt make the purchase. He says that was shown by him not inputting a 
one-time passcode (OTP). But he was charged £181.38 including a non-sterling fee and 
disputed this.
Clydesdale said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The payment hadnt needed an OTP. 
And by giving the merchant his details Mr M had agreed to its terms and conditions. There 
wasnt a basis to challenge this payment and it said he would need to contact the merchant.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
information from Clydesdale showed that an OTP wasnt sent for this payment. So, it had 
been authenticated with Mr Ms card details. Mr M had provided information about the 
requirement for strong customer authentication including the use of an OTP from 
Clydesdales website. But she said that this took effect from 14 March 2022.
Mr M said he wanted to see information about transactions on his account and so which did 
or didnt require OTPs. Our investigator provided information about this shed used in her 
assessment and Mr M said he wanted a review of his case. Hed already clarified that hed 
had a partial refund from the merchant having returned the goods. But including the costs of 
return postage had a net loss of £70.28. He said that the information on the Clydesdale 
website at the time said that all new transactions and anything over £50 would require an 
OTP. He said that Clydesdale should have issued an OTP. He was told when he phoned it 
to stop the card on his phone as the payment was pending and to see if it came through. 
When he removed that stop after five days the payment still debited. Mr M says hes 
provided evidence that Clydesdale made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if it wasnt authorised Mr M wouldnt be 
responsible for it as this related to a distance contract.
I need to say something about strong customer authentication. While the original date for 
mandatory implementation was 2019 this was extended by the Financial Conduct Authority 
to May 2021 and then finally to March 2022 in this country. I dont doubt that information was 
given on Clydesdales website about this in 2021 and what those requirements would be. 
But Ive also seen clear information from Clydesdale referring specifically to its date of 
implementation in March 2022 and that after that there would only be specified exceptions.
Clydesdale has shown that no OTP was issued for this payment. It has shown that 
information was provided by Mr M to the merchant to support this payment. And Mr M 
doesnt dispute inputting his card details. So, I find that this payment was authenticated.
I need to think about whether Mr M consented to it. He says he didnt because an OTP was 
sent and not input. He says he had this message on his phone at the time but unfortunately 
lost it when he bought a new phone. As I say Clydesdale said it didnt issue an OTP and 
thats what its records show. And also, that not all payments Mr M made at that time did 
require an OTP. The related point from Mr M is that it should have asked for an OTP for him 
to confirm the payment. While it was clearly possible for that to be done Im not satisfied that 
this was a requirement at the time. And so, the merchant could request the payment without 
needing this. Once the merchant had approval for the pending payment this could later be 
applied to the account irrespective of whether Mr M had stopped his card.
I can see that when Mr M discussed this payment with Clydesdale there was reference 
made to an earlier larger payment that had been routed through the strong customer 
authentication process. And its right that this was abandoned by Mr M. But here I dont have 
evidence to show otherwise than that Mr M authorised this actual payment. I take into 
account that hes shown he quickly said he hadnt. But also, from what hes provided that the 
merchant sent him an invoice and then explained in later email correspondence with him the 
basis for the order. I dont think Mr Ms shown that this was other than in line with its terms 
and conditions.
Having made that finding I dont consider Clydesdale ought to have done more including say 
to have raised a chargeback for this payment or considered that this money was fraudulently 
obtained from Mr M.
I appreciate Mr Ms had to return the goods and as a result of postage and the refund 
amount and exchange fees has a net loss here. But for the reasons Ive given Im afraid I 
dont see a fair basis for Clydesdale not to hold him responsible for that remaining element 
of his payment.
I can appreciate that Mr M will be very disappointed with my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman