DRN-3406508
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, didnt give her
sufficient information about the impact that the financial assistance they provided her would
have on her credit file, or that they later defaulted her account without giving her prior notice.
What happened
Miss S found herself in financial difficulty in December 2019 and was struggling to pay the
monthly payments required on her Tesco credit account. Miss S contacted Tesco about this
and Tesco agreed to place a temporary hold on the account. After the temporary hold
expired Miss S contacted Tesco again as she was still experiencing financial difficulty and
agreed a temporary payment plan. Following that plan, another temporary hold was agreed
by Tesco, as Miss S was still experiencing financial difficulties at that time.
In May 2020, Miss S contacted Tesco again, as the temporary hold on her account was
ending and she was still struggling to be able to meet the required monthly payments. At that
time, Tesco offered Miss S a three-month payment holiday on her account, with the payment
holiday scheduled to end in August 2020.
In August 2020, when the payment holiday ended and with Miss Ss account in a state of
arrears, Tesco resumed collections activity on the account. Tesco later issued a default
notice to Miss S in September 2020 which advised that the arrears outstanding on the
account needed to be cleared within 28 days. And, when Miss S didnt make a payment to
clear the account arrears within 28 days, Tesco then defaulted the account.
Miss S wasnt happy about this, especially as she hadnt received the default notice which
had informed her that she had 28 days to clear the outstanding arrears, and she also wasnt
happy that Tesco hadnt informed her that the financial assistance shed received from them
would be reported to her credit file as missed payments. So, she raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Miss Ss complaint. But they felt that theyd provided fair and reasonable
financial support to Miss S and that they had informed her of the consequences of that
support, including how it would be reported to her credit file. Tesco also noted that theyd
sent the default notice to Miss Ss correct address, and felt that their defaulting the account,
given the prolonged state of arrears that the account had been in, had also been fair, and as
such they didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Tesco had clearly explained
to Miss S how the support theyd offered to her would be reported on her credit file, and they
didnt feel that the defaulting of the account had been unfair. However, they did feel that
Tesco could have provided clearer information to Miss S that she should have contacted
them again at the end of the three-month payment holiday, and they recommended that this
complaint be upheld in Miss Ss favour on that basis only and that Tesco should make a
payment of £100 to Miss S to compensate her not providing her with clearer information.
Miss S didnt agree with the view put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2022 as follows:
Having listened to several recorded telephone calls between Miss S and Tesco, its 
clear that Tesco did explain to Miss S that the support she was receiving from them 
could have an effect on her credit file. For instance, when Miss S first contacted 
Tesco in December 2019 it was explained to her by Tescos agent that the temporary 
account hold that she was accepting might be reported to her credit file as a missed 
payment. And a similar relevant explanation of the impact of the three-month 
payment plan that Miss S accepted in February 2020 was also provided to Miss S by 
Tesco when that plan was agreed.
Furthermore, it would be expected that the temporary hold and the payment plan that 
Miss S did receive from Tesco would be reported as such to her credit file. This is 
because credit providers such as Tesco have an obligation to make accurate reports 
to the credit reference agencies, including when a customer hasnt been able to meet 
their credit obligations and has entered into temporary measures of financial support, 
such as Miss S did.
In May 2020, Tesco granted Miss S a three-month payment holiday whereby it wasnt
considered by Tesco that the arrears on Miss Ss account had grown during that 
period and where the accrual of further arears, beyond those that had already been 
present on the account before the payment holiday was agreed, werent reported by 
Tesco to the credit reference agencies during the period of that payment holiday.
Tescos action here was in consideration of temporary guidance published in April 
2020 by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding the provision of three-
month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty 
meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of financial difficulties 
brought about by the impact of Covid-19. This guidance included that, for these 
three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays to the 
credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing 
so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the 
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that 
time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments 
on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In this instance, Miss S had been experiencing financial difficulty since December 
2019, which was before the Covid-19 pandemic developed, and so it seems clear to 
me that Miss S wasnt an eligible consumer in regard to the provision of these 
payment holidays and that she shouldnt therefore have been given such a three-
month payment holiday by Tesco when she spoke with them in May 2020.
Instead, I feel that Tesco should have followed the FCA guidance as it related to 
customers such as Miss S who had already been in a state of financial difficulty before the Covid-19 pandemic and who continued to be in a state of financial 
difficulty at that time. This guidance explained that such customers should still be 
offered a form of financial support where appropriate, but that this financial support 
should be tailored to that customers individual circumstances and should still be 
reported to the credit reference agencies as per usual.
Its difficult, in hindsight, to say what form of financial assistance that Miss S should 
have received at that time. But whatever form such assistance took, it should have 
been the case that further arrears were considered to have accrued on Miss Ss 
account and to have been reported to the credit reference agencies as such. 
Therefore, given that Miss S did receive a three-month holiday under FCA prescribed 
terms that she wasnt technically eligible to receive, it seems that Miss S benefited by 
receiving this payment holiday and by the arrears on her account not being reported 
as having further accrued during that holiday period.
Im aware that Miss S feels that she should have been contacted by Tesco at the end 
of the three-month payment holiday to discuss any further support that she might 
need, and I note that our investigator recommended that Tesco should pay Miss S 
compensation on the basis that they didnt provide clear information to Miss S about 
her responsibilities at the end of the payment holiday at that time.
However, given that Miss S had been aware by Tesco of the terms of the payment 
holiday, including that it would end in August 2020, I feel that that it was incumbent 
on Miss S to have contacted Tesco once that payment holiday ended, rather than the 
other way round, if Miss S continued to need financial assistance at that time. As 
such, I wont be provisionally upholding this aspect of Miss Ss complaint or 
instructing Tesco to pay Miss S any compensation in this regard.
Given that Tesco had made Miss S aware when the three-month payment holiday 
would end, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that, following the end of the 
payment holiday, and having not received any contact from Miss S, that Tesco would 
resume collections activity on the account, which remained in a state of arrears and 
had been in a state of arrears since January 2020.
It also must be acknowledged that it wouldnt be expected that a credit provider such 
as Tesco would allow an account to remain in a state of arrears indefinitely, 
especially where no payments towards that account are being received, so that the 
customer is in danger of falling further and further into debt. Indeed, in such 
circumstances it would usually be considered irresponsible for a credit provider to 
allow its customer to fall further and further into debt, and it would usually be 
considered responsible practice for that credit provider to begin the process of 
defaulting that customers account  which has the effect of freezing the
balance outstanding so that the level of debt that the customer is in doesnt continue 
to grow.
As such, it does seem fair and reasonable to me, in this instance, that Tesco would 
have begun default proceedings against Miss S when they did and issued the default 
notice to her in September 2020. And while Miss S has stated that she didnt receive 
the default notice, Tesco have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that it was 
sent to Miss Ss correct address, and I wouldnt consider holding Tesco responsible 
for the non-delivery of sent mail.
Miss S has stated that if she had been made aware of the need to clear the arrears in 
full to avoid her account being defaulted that she would have borrowed the money to 
make such a payment. But I feel that Miss S had a responsibility as the account holder to monitor and manage the account such that she should have been aware 
that collections had resumed on her account, regardless of whether the default notice 
that Tesco sent to her was received by her or not, and I also have to question why, if 
Miss S did have the ability to make an arrears clearing payment in the manner that 
she suggests, she didnt make such a payment sooner.
Ultimately, I feel that it was incumbent on Miss S to have been aware that her 
account was a state of prolonged arrears and to have contacted Tesco about this, 
and I note that Miss S was contacting Tesco regularly in this manner during the first 
half of 2020. And, given that Miss S didnt contact Tesco about this, and that she 
didnt make a payment towards the account as was required of her, I dont feel that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Tesco to have defaulted the account for non-payment 
when they did.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from my provisional decision here is that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action. This includes 
that I wont be instructing Tesco to pay the £100 compensation payment 
recommended previously by our investigator as I dont feel that such a compensation 
payment is merited in this instance, as explained previously above.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss S and Tesco the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Miss S did state that she disagreed with my provisional decision but didnt provide 
any further comments beyond that statement. Tesco didnt respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the same basis as explained in my 
provisional decision above, and I can confirm that my final decision here will be that I do not 
uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman